
                               1 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           January 31, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE GREAT BRITISH JOB REVOLT GROWS

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 355 words


STRIKES spread like wildfire across Britain yesterday in a mass protest over
jobs for migrants.

Thousands of workers walked out in support of a demo at the Lindsey oil refinery
in Lincolnshire, where 250 Italians have been hired for a building project.

Union leaders claim the GBP 300million contract could have used skilled, jobless
Brits.

Industrial action quickly snowballed to more than 20 refineries and power
stations in Scotland, Wales, Teesside Hampshire and Cheshire.

The Daily Star - the first paper to report the dispute at Lindsey 10 days ago -
was bombarded with messages from scaffolders, engineers, electricians
pipe-fitters, welders and steel erectors.

They said Gordon Brown had failed to honour his "British jobs for British
workers" pledge.

Our voteline yesterday asked if bosses should put Brits first and 98% of you
said YES!

Unions say the protest at the Lindsey refinery in Grimsby, run by French oil
giant Total, struck a chord with workforces nationwide.

And there were growing calls yesterday for UK drivers to boycott Total's petrol
stations.

Unite union regional leader Kenny Ward said: "It's been a kettle ready to boil
and the lid has blown off now." Yorkshire and Humber UK Independence Party MEP
Godfrey Bloom stormed: "It defies belief that, with unemployment pushing to the
three million mark, we are bringing in foreign workers to do a job that many
British firms could tackle." Cleethorpes MP Shona McIsaac added: "It is like a
red rag to a bull for people in our community." The Italian contractors - who
are being housed in floating hotels at Grimsby docks - were kept away from work
yesterday.

Copycat protests were staged at Scotland's Grangemouth refinery and at power
stations in Staythorpe, Notts, and at Grain in Kent.

.BBC chiefs are under fire for giving coverage to current job protests in France
but barely mentioning those at home.

They finally caught up last night and made the UK protests the lead item on
BBC1's Six O'Clock news.

A spokesman said of the French coverage: "A million people took part in the
French protests and the disruption to transport services had an international
impact."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN DOCK: The Italians' floating hotel
DEMAND: Teesside workers' plea for Brit jobs
FURY: Demos in Lincolnshire, top, and Wales

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday

G2: Digested read

BYLINE: John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 577 words


Title: The World According to Garry Bushell

Publisher: Metro

Price: £12.99

Do you want to know what's wrong with England? It's going to the dogs. We're
being overrun by pekinese, chihuahuas and

alsatians. The poor old English bulldog doesn't stand a chance. And what do the
tree huggers at the Kennel Club do about it? Only give in to the health and
safety officials in Brussels and ban the breathing problems and heart failure
that made our bulldogs proud to be English. Jahwohl, mein commandant!

That's another thing. How come we English don't rejoice that we come from the
best bloody country in the world? It's OK for the genocidal Krauts and the
surrender-monkey Frogs to celebrate their identity with their own national day.
Even the Jocks and the Micks have their own day and they didn't even have an
empire that enslaved the world. So let's hear it for Chas'n'Dave.

Same thing with Christmas. Everyone knows Jesus was English but these days it's
Happy Holiday this and Happy Winterval that. I blame the Marxists, because they
are the ones what wrecked a good night out at the pub by banning smoking.
Where's the fun in going out on the pull if you don't come home reeking of fags?
And I'm not talking about queers! In any case, all those poor bastards forced to
snout up outside are just dying of pneumonia instead of cancer.

Garry's Blog: Ofcom found me guilty of homophobia. I want it on record I've got
nothing against queers. And I intend to keep it that way!

We've got things all arse about tit in England right now. Kids wander round in
T-shirts with that failed psychopath Che Guevara on the front. How come they
don't celebrate our own great revolutionaries like Oswald Mosley? No sense of
national pride. I was once in the SWP but I'm not

getting fooled again. Oi! That's why I'm for the BNP. At least they understand
that racist bullying is the main reason our troops are the best bloody fighting
force in the universe.

Just don't get me started on modern art. It's all a load of

rubbish painted by fraudulent paedophiles, and that Picasso was the worst of the
lot. My missus could have bashed out that Guernica thing. And as for Damien
Hirst and Tracey Emin . . . I could weep. Especially when Woolies, the only
place selling decent English working-class art, has gone out of business.

Garry's Blog: Did you see Rebecca Loos masturbating a pig on TV? Revolting. It
wasn't even a pure English breed like a

Gloucestershire Old Spot.

Same thing with TV. Why isn't Benny Hill on any more? Because the media has been
taken over by poufs and wimmin. Apart from the lezzers that is. We could do with
more of them, apart from that fat one off EastEnders.

White blokes haven't had a look-in since feminism took over the world. Why can't
we tell the truth and say that all wimmin are hormonal nightmares? And they are
just the nice ones. Lighten up, and get a sense of humour, will you? If you want
to end prostitution just send Ann Widdecombe out on the game.

Garry's Blog: How come the Archbishop of Canterbury is Welsh?

Northern Rock. The answer's all in the Northern. If it had been Southern Rock,
the government would never have bailed out the honest white working classes in
Sevenoaks. But as they're a load of thieving scallies and Mozzers from up north,
they get £55bn of my money. Cry God for Ukip,

England and St George!

The digested read, digested: I had that Garry Bushell in the front of my cab.

Listen to the digested read

podcast at guardian.co.uk/digestedread

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 26, 2009

Obama online team to help take on BNP

LENGTH: 615 words



HIGHLIGHT: UK anti-racists seek to stop far-right party leader Nick Griffin
becoming MEP in European elections


Anti-racist campaigners have signed up the people behind Barack Obama's online
election campaign to help them take on the British National party in this year's
European elections.

The US firm Blue State Digital, which used the latest internet technology to
mobilise millions of people behind America's first black president, will help
create a grassroots network across the UK as part of the campaign to stop the
BNP leader, Nick Griffin, from becoming the far-right party's first MEP in June.

The company began work for Searchlight last week, and has already signed up
thousands of new supporters and donors.

"We have been working with them for a week and a half, and already the results
are pretty impressive," said Nick Lowles, who is leading Searchlight's Hope not
Hate Campaign.

"We have had more small individual donations in the past two weeks than we have
had in three or four years, and the technology is already allowing us to build a
vibrant, bottom-up activist movement."

The BNP is fielding candidates across the country in June's European elections,
and analysts believe the party could be on the verge of an important
breakthrough.

Since the last time MEPs were elected, in 2004, it has increased its support,
and the UK Independence party, which picked up a number of seats last time
round, has floundered. Commentators predict that these factors, combined with
the economic downturn, could lead to the BNP's gaining up to four seats, giving
it a financial boost, a full-time staff and a greater degree of political
legitimacy.

"The result of the 2009 European election could alter British politics for years
to come," said Lowles. "If the British National party wins one or more seats in
the European parliament, it will break out of the political margins and emerge
as a lasting political force in the UK."

Blue State Digital's managing partner Thomas Gensemer said he hoped his company
would be able to have a big impact on the forthcoming election.

"We want to lower the bar to allow more people to get involved and feel like
they can make a difference," he said. "We provide the tools, but the message has
to be right. Otherwise, it simply will not work."

As part of the first stage of their campaign, BSD and Searchlight have sent out
emails to thousands of supporters asking each one to pass on the email to five
friends and make a small donation. The software means campaigners can then track
who opens the emails, where they are sent and what happens when they arrive at
the other end. They can then tailor future emails to groups and individuals.

"The crucial thing about this campaign is that everybody is given a task so they
become activists with a stake in what we are doing," said Lowles. "The software
allows us to tailor emails to different groups and get information out there to
hundreds of thousands of people."

Lowles said it was the first time online political campaigning on this scale had
been tried in the UK.

"It means we can build a massive grassroots campaign with groups in every local
authority area and an army of volunteers. This is about working alongside our
traditional campaign, creating lots of local groups that people are actively
involved in and ultimately control."

Griffin heads the BNP's list in the north-west, where it is most hopeful of
making a breakthrough. The far-right organisation is understood to be aiming to
raise ?500,000 to fund its campaign, which will also concentrate on Yorkshire
and the Humber, and the Midlands.

Lowles said: "The BNP poses a significant threat in these elections, but we are
building the infrastructure for a great campaign. What we need is for everyone
who opposes the BNP's message of hate to get involved."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               4 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 26, 2009 Monday 5:08 PM GMT

BritBlog Round Up 206: The politics, freedom and feminist sex edition

BYLINE: By Mick Fealty

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 961 words


Welcome to the 206th edition of the Britblog Round Up. These are the best blog
stories of the week as nominated by you. Nominations for next week should be
sent via email to britblog [at] gmail [dot] com.

Wittering is incensed that Peter Hain is not to be punished for his
misdemeanours during Labour's Deputy leadership competition by the Standards and
Privileges committee. Though it is not strictly true that the former Secretary
for Wales, etc.. is going unpunished.

James believes that Tory MP Daniel Kawcynski is an 'utter disgrace'. Why? As
Niall Paterson notes, for telling tall tales in parliament about a police
officer who had landed in his office 'demanding' to see documents. Turns out the
cop had made an appointment, with said office in the course of his
investigation. Sadie notes the palpable silence from bloggers to the right.

And James also blogs on the Carnival of Modern Liberty: "If liberty is to have
any meaning, we have to be able to keep an eye on those we elect to serve."

But Paulie reckons that the bloggertarians are getting more and more anti
democratic in their ardour to see off Labour. He reckons some of those who
gleefully lead with the corruption of Parliament arguments need to ask
themselves an important question:

Are they willfully anti-democratic (in which case, carry on) or are they the
useful idiots of the people who want to whittle away at the standing of
democracy.

Chris wants the BBC to stop being stupid and get out of servicing broadcast news
content (a commodity already well provided for by the market) and save it for
its web output...

Labour list is the Labour establishment's first venture into blogging. Tory
activist Mike Rouse carries a reasonably dispassionate recce of the site and
it's technical aspects (See Jon Worth's piece too). Labour MEP Mary Honeyball
reckons in its early output it's been struggling to find a real blog voice. And
Tim's already conducting a comment war of attrition against Derek Draper. Hack
has noticed they've not been acknowledging original artwork (Guido appears to
have learned his lesson).

The FCO (in common with every department of Foreign Affairs across the world, is
not what it once was. Charles thinks that some of the older standards of
diplomacy are their for good reason, and that Milliband's dressed down attitude
is playing badly both for him, and the UK.

But in one of the accusations leveled at the Foreign Secretary, Shuggy thinks
he's detected an old technique of mock journalistic enquiry: the old when did
you stop beating your wife gambit...

Barkingside is bemused at the faux positions on Heathrow in the Commons and
Boris's surrealist trip down the Thames (ably twittered by MayorofLondoff).

Bent Council: a citizen journalist who just won't let go...

Andrew reckons the UKIP will rejoice at the news that Ken Clarke is back...
Well, judging by England Expects that would be right...

Sticking with Europe for a moment, His Grace is ripping about the controversy in
the Netherlands with the direction of the Dutch Appeal Court that Geert Wilders
be prosecuted; after the public prosecution had decided not to take action.

I don't agree with all of his reasoning, but the inalienable core of the
argument boils down to this:

Cranmer does not wish to trivialise the pain which Mr Wilders may have caused to
many Muslims. But they live in a liberal democracy, in a European Union which
enshrines the principle of freedom of expression in its Charter on Human Rights,
and no-one has the right not to be offended. [Emphasis added]

The Magistrate recalls an old friend coming for advice on an old conviction,
which leads him to contrast the conscience of the old with the insouciance of
the young...

A moving story from Carol Gould who concludes: "This is universal health care.
Americans deserve this. Every American. Now."

Three public consultations on Home Education since 2005, the Government is now
launching a fourth. Carlotta notes a memory lapse since the last one:

The Baroness herself assured EO that we would be informed and involved prior to
consultations taking place. Right oh, so how can you explain this situation then
Baroness? We only knew of this consultation last night when the whole thing was
up and ready to run. Yes, I do think an explanation is in order.

That's Sainsburys nicely slapped then for their 'Five Items or less' signs...

'Less' and 'Fewer' are not synonyms, because they mean different things. As a
rule of thumb, if you can express the amount in integer terms, you need to use
'fewer'; and if not, then use 'less'.

Abby sparks a lengthy debate on whether Madge should stop flaunting it now she's
fifty... And, erm, there's also this on the sexual politics of, erm, oral sex
(neither of them exactly work safe)...

Author Elizabeth Chadwick has been uncovering the seals of the Bigot family
line...

Chrisp discovers Prudence (the cast aside former muse of Gordon Brown) in
Holborn Bars...

Peter muses on the 'Pork Pie' Library in Leicester designed and built in during
the last war... Whilst Philip visits what was once a classic English Lido in
Tamworth. The pool long since filled in to form a 'courtyard'... He recalls:

While the enlightened middle classes longed for snow-white modernist houses with
big windows, terraces, and (EURO)~sleeping porches', the rest of the population
got more real, and headed down to the lido.

And Jonathan wants to know why there are so many urban foxes these days...

And that's it for this week. It will come back to us again. Last week's round up
was over at Trixy's place. Next week it will be hosted by Natalie. Entries can
be sent to britblog at gmail dot com.

The roundup is a compendium of last week's outstanding posts in the British
Blogosphere.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 25, 2009

The biggest anti-fascist campaign ever

LENGTH: 422 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jon Cruddas: Nick Lowles: The BNP is looking to exploit the recession
to win seats in the Euro elections; but thousands of people will be trying to
thwart its message of hate


Over the next few months Searchlight and its HOPE not hate campaign will be
gearing up to prevent the BNP from winning seats in the European elections. We
anticipate mobilising thousands of activists and delivering over 2 million
leaflets and newspapers in what will be the biggest and most intense
anti-fascist campaign in history.And it is needed. The BNP poses a threat in six
Euro regions, with as little as 7.5% required in the North West, where the party
leader, Nick Griffin, is standing.

With Ukip faltering, few local elections and the economy hurtling into
recession, we will need everyone who opposes the BNP's message of hate to play a
part. A BNP victory will change the political landscape in Britain.The last few
years have seen the British National Party make significant electoral gains
across the length and breadth of the political landscape - often off the radar
of the political and media class at Westminster, which has remained preoccupied
with a very small part of the electoral map that decides Westminster elections:
so-called middle Britain.Quietly but steadily the BNP has been building its
support. While many commentators have focused on its traditional heartlands in
the Lancashire and Yorkshire mill towns, the BNP has been widening its base
across the country. In 2007 the BNP stood 742 council candidates, averaging
14.7% of the vote. Last year they averaged 13.9% in 642 wards. The regional
average vote is fairly consistent across the country.The critical element to
this palpable support for the BNP is that it has occurred against the backdrop
of extraordinarily benign macroeconomic conditions. Well over a decade of
continuous quarter-on-quarter growth, low interest rates, falling unemployment
and general prosperity have obscured the economic and cultural issues the BNP
has focused on. It has tapped into a deep sense of alienation among many who
have not prospered in the good times, a corresponding fracture of working class
identity, and indeed demonisation in popular culture - all refracted through the
prism of race.On 15 September last year, when Lehman Brothers went for Chapter
11 bankruptcy in the US, the world changed. More specifically the world changed
in terms of the climate within which the BNP is seeking to gain political
traction. Any cursory reading of history suggests that recession and depression
breed extremism; everything else being equal, the BNP will expect to benefit
from the suffering and the insecurities that will intensify over the coming
months and years.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               6 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 24, 2009 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Kilroy makes a killing;
Former TV presenter rents out his Spanish villa for £12,750 a week

BYLINE: Dan Newling

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 307 words


EVER wondered what life would be like as a faded celebrity with a permanent tan
and a part-time job at the European Parliament?

Well now you can find out, albeit at a cost of £12,750 a week.

Former TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk is charging the astronomical weekly fee
to holidaymakers who want to rent his luxurious villa in southern Spain.

The Finca Rozalejo is set in 150 acres of stunning countryside near Malaga and
boasts 11 bedrooms and two outdoor swimming pools.

The whitewashed former olive mill has been beautifully refurbished to make even
the most hardened Eurosceptic feel at home. Set at the end of a mile-long drive,
the retreat boasts limestone floors, antique furniture and its own staff. It
even has a herd of goats.

At more than £25,000 for a fortnight, you would have thought the villa would
come with every luxury included. You'd be wrong.

The UK company marketing the villa is demanding more for 'extras' such as air
conditioning (£250 a week), a cot (£25 a week) and a high chair (£20 a week). A
map of the area will set you back an extra £4.

Kilroy-Silk, 66, and his wife Jan are thought to have paid around £3million for
the villa and have spent a great deal more on refurbishing it.

They used to spend a week a month there, but locals say they rarely see them.
Presumably he is too busy representing the East Midlands as its fiercely
anti-European member of the European Parliament.

A former Labour MP, Kilroy-Silk became a multimillionaire as the producer and
presenter of his Kilroy daytime television programme. It ran for 18 years on the
BBC before it was cancelled in 2004 when Kilroy-Silk attacked Arabs as 'suicide
bombers' and 'limb amputators'.

He then returned to the political fray, firstly as leader of the UK Independence
Party and then as leader of his own political party, Veritas. He is now an
independent MEP.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) Still water: Another pool offers a more secluded spot for a dip or
some sunbathing (2) Less time to visit: Kilroy-Silk and wife Jan (3) Pool with a
view: The sharp lines of the terrace at Kilroy-Silk's villa seem to cut across
the rugged Adalucian scenery behind it (4) Balmy: The former mill basks in
sunshine of Andalucia (5) Dreamy: One of the 11 bedrooms - this one has a
balcony (6) Airy: Stone tiles and cool cream give respite from the sun

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 23, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU's 'butter mountain' costs taxpayers GBP 236m

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS ; 28

LENGTH: 536  words


THE EU is spending GBP 236million of taxpayers' money building up a "butter
mountain" to join their stores of unwanted sugar, grain and wine.

The European Commission yesterday pledged to buy up 30,000 tons of butter from
farmers across the 27-country union this year as well as 109,000 tons of skimmed
milk powder.

The unwanted dairy produce will be stored in silos across the continent and will
join 317,853 tons of unwanted sugar, 16,000 tons of unwanted maize and wheat and
millions of gallons of unwanted wine which Brussels officials have already
bought up.

EU Agriculture Commissioner Mariann Frischer Boel claims buying up the butter
mountain is essential to prevent European farmers going bust.

The Commission Agriculture spokesman said: "We have to stock butter again. If we
don't farmers will be out of business."

Last night, the policy was condemned as an example of Brussels' waste.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "The return of the butter mountain is proof of
the lunacy of the Common Agricultural Mountain. This is another shocking waste
of money - similar to the wine lake and the grain mountain."

Conservative Euro MP Syed Kamall said: "Taxpayers are being hit by a double
whammy. Not only must they pay farmers to produce the food, they are now seeing
their money being spent on produce nobody wants to buy.

"Instead of going back to the past and creating butter mountains, we should stop
wasting taxpayers' money and reform the Common Agricultural Policy once and for
all."

The dairy industry employs 400,000 throughout the EU and has an annual turnover
of GBP 112billion.

The UK is among Europe's main dairy producers along with Ireland, Germany,
France, the Netherlands, Poland and Italy.

EU chiefs say they have been forced to act following the fall in the price and
the demand for dairy products. A spokesman said: "With the crisis, people are
eating fewer dairy products."

European farmers have also seen a fall in demand for their products abroad and
the EU has pledged to subsidise cheese, butter and milk powder exports to the
rest of the world. From a peak in the 1980s, Brussels finally got rid of its
butter mountain in 2007.

Officials last night said they hoped they would not have to keep the stockpiles
for long.

A spokesman said: "We were happy to get rid of them in 2007. Hopefully this will
only be a temporary measure." Average milk prices in the EU fell by seven per
cent between October 2007 and October last year.

But the EU has also not ruled out buying even more butter and milk i f
necessary.

Sieta van Keimpema, vice president of the European Milk Board, said: "Milk
prices paid to producers have been plummeting since autumn last year. Prices in
member states are now no better than 19p per litre - that is way below the true
cost of production."

The move has infuriated dairy producers throughout the world.

New Zealand trade minister Tim Groser and Agriculture Minister David Carter said
the EU's move was not welcome at a crucial time for world trade.

Oxfam even accused the EU of starting a trade war.

A spokeswoman said: "This is sending a bad signal to developin g countries as it
shows how rich countries are trying to take advantage o f the food crisis to
push for their own interests."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Butter from farmers will be stockpiled

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 22, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 600,000 to pay for two 'needless' Eurocrats

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS ; 7

LENGTH: 277  words


EU chiefs have created two "unnecessary" new jobs which will cost taxpayers GBP
600,000 a year.

The European Commission has decided it needs a permanent office to monitor human
rights debates at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. The plans were announced
at a time when millions face severe financial hardship in the worst recession
for more than 50 years.

The "embassy", which opens later this year, will be staffed by two bureaucrats
who will account for GBP 251,130 a year in salaries and expenses, with the
remaining GBP 339,388 swallowed up by rent, cleaning, security, utilities, IT
and office supplies.

The European Commission claims the delegation is vital to "strengthen relations
between the EU and the Council of Europe" even though EU staff already have
offices at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, less than 300 yards away.

Last night the plan was condemned as a shocking waste of money.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "The Commission shows a total lack of
understanding of what money is in the depths of a severe recession."

Mark Wallace of the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "This is a totally unnecessary
duplication and there is absolutely no need for it."

The plan came to light yesterday after a Euro MP asked what plans the European
Commission had in Strasbourg.

The Commission believes the move will help "strengthen relations" with the
Council, a Europe-wide body independent of the EU specialising in human rights.

The Council of Europe, Europe's oldest political body founded in 1949, aims to
uphold human rights, democracy and the rule of law across the continent.

It is funded by its 47 member states and oversees the European Court of Human
Rights.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP chief Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 21, 2009

Minister branded 'out of touch' for unemployment comment

LENGTH: 904 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservatives criticise employment minister Tony McNulty for saying
there was 'light at the end of the tunnel' after new data showed UK jobless
total nearing 2 million


The government was involved in a fresh "gaffe" row today over unemployment after
new figures showed another huge increase in dole queues, record redundancies and
more job losses.

The Conservatives accused the employment minister, Tony McNulty, of being "out
of touch" after he said there was "light at the end of the tunnel" shortly after
new data showed UK unemployment hurtling towards 2 million.

The jobless total increased by 131,000 in the three months to November to 1.92
million, the highest figure for more than a decade, leaving the UK with a higher
unemployment rate - 6.1% - than Slovenia, Romania, Malta, Holland, the Czech
Republic, Bulgaria, Austria and Cyprus.

Hundreds of fresh job losses were signalled by supermarket giant Sainsbury's,
electronics component firm TT electronics and Bradford-based conveyancing firm
Hammonds Support Systems, while wireless equipment maker LM Ericsson announced
it was axing 5,000 jobs to cut costs but would not say if any would be in the
UK.

Upmarket seafood chain FishWorks, which operates 10 restaurants and fishmongers
in London and the south-west, became the latest high street firm to go into
administration.

The employment minister was responding to the warning by US fund manager Jim
Rogers that sterling was "finished", urging investors to sell any of the
currency they had.

McNulty said Rogers was "stone cold wrong" and "utterly irresponsible".

Speaking to BBC News, he added: "There is light at the end of the tunnel.

"It is some way off, I think that's clear, but ... all that we are doing in
terms of the economy, which is being followed by most other western economies,
will mean that we will get through this downturn and this recession."

The shadow work and pensions secretary, Theresa May, said: "The rising tide of
unemployment will be of real concern to hardpressed families up and down the
country.

"Gordon Brown's complete failure to prepare Britain for recession means that the
UK now faces the highest rise in unemployment of any G7 country.

"Labour's astonishing claim this morning that there is 'light at the end of the
tunnel' shows how out of touch they are. This is a government that has clearly
run out of ideas."

Asked about McNulty's comments, Brown's spokesman said: "This is clearly a
difficult period for the economy and I think everyone accepts that and accepts
that the role of the government is to ensure we do everything we can to get the
country through this fairly."

Business minister Shriti Vadera was criticised last week for saying she could
see a few "green shoots" of economic recovery, while the housing minister,
Margaret Beckett, was attacked for saying there were signs of an upturn in the
property market.

Unemployment is sure to break through the 2 million barrier next month following
a spate of job cuts since the start of the year.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance increased last month by
77,900 to 1.16 million, the worst figure since 2000.

The monthly benefit claimant increase was the second highest since 1991, and the
claimant count has now increased for 11 months in a row, according to the Office
for National Statistics.

Today's data also showed that 225,000 people became redundant in the quarter to
November, up by 78,000 on the previous three months and the highest figure since
comparable records began in 1995.

The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: "This is another set of
terrible figures, and it is going to get a lot worse before it gets any better."

Richard Lambert, the director general of the CBI, said: "These numbers are as
bad as we expected and are sadly going to get worse. The combination of falling
demand and global credit constraints is pushing unemployment sharply higher."

Lee Hopley, the head of economic policy at the Engineering Employers'
Federation, said: "The acceleration in the pace of job cuts across manufacturing
comes on the back of a sharp downturn in production and growing uncertainty
about the prospects for global demand."

David Frost, the director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said:
"Businesses are being increasingly forced against their will to let good staff
go. Even with some staff accepting pay freezes and working fewer hours, it's
clear that employers are facing serious financial pressures."

Crisis, the national charity for single homeless people, warned that single
people and those without children were particularly at risk from homelessness if
they lost their jobs.

Leslie Morphy, the chief executive of Crisis, said: "We are particularly worried
about single people and those without dependent children. There is no
homelessness safety net for them. Local authorities are not even obliged to
provide emergency housing. As a result they are left to fend for themselves."

The Institute for Public Policy Research (ippr) said that the government's
welfare services must continue to focus on those who need the most help to get
back into work.

Carey Oppenheim, co-director of ippr, said: "It's crucial that Jobcentre Plus
focuses on those who need the most help to get back into work, like lone
parents, disabled people and the long-term unemployed. We can't afford to let
disadvantaged jobseekers move further away from work during the recession."

Godfrey Bloom, Ukip's economic spokesman, said the latest unemployment numbers
are "of course appalling", but he added: "We have to remember that they are
vastly worse right across the eurozone."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               10 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                  SC1 Edition

Bring on the bruisers;
Ken Clarke returns as Cameron strengthens Tory top team

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan, Michael Lea

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 613 words


DAVID Cameron drafted in a team of political bruisers yesterday to defend him
from Labour attacks and take on Gordon Brown.

Ken Clarke was brought back to the front line as part of a carefully crafted
reshuffle designed to widen the circle of heavyweights around the Tory leader.

In another major change Eric Pickles, a bluff-speaking Yorkshireman with a huge
following in the Tory grassroots, was made party chairman.

Chris Grayling, the party's leading attack dog, was handed the Home Affairs
portfolio.

Last week, William Hague was anointed deputy leader 'in all but name' by Mr
Cameron in a signal he is widening the top table previously dominated by himself
and shadow chancellor George Osborne.

Officials said both Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne wanted to show there was more to
the leadership than two wealthy, public- school educated Londoners. As business
spokesman, Mr Clarke will take on Peter Mandelson, who has become Gordon Brown's
key ally since his shock appointment last year.

Mr Clarke, 68, said he had been persuaded to return to politics by the 'gravest
economic crisis I have known'.

Expressing his 'delight', Mr Cameron said: 'He has more experience of dealing
with tough economic challenges than Gordon Brown's entire Cabinet.' Mr Brown and
Lord Mandelson both welcomed Mr Clarke's appointment.

'It's good to have somebody in the Shadow Cabinet who is supportive of our
policy on Europe, of our policy on VAT and who is probably quietly supportive of
our other policies,' the Prime Minister said.

Former Tory Cabinet minister Michael Portillo, however, described Mr Clarke's
return as a 'risk' and Ukip claimed that his appointment had already led one
town councillor to defect to them.

Barry Legg, of the Eurosceptic Bruges Group, claimed last night that Mr Clarke's
return effectively meant 'the end of David Cameron's promise to hold a
referendum on the EU Constitution'.

But Mr Pickles claimed the party would be 'stronger' for having Mr Clarke on the
front bench.

'The Conservative Party is about a lot of things more than Europe. Ken is a big
beast by any standards,' the new Tory party chairman told the BBC.

Mr Pickles is himself a largerthan-life figure with a formidable reputation.

Born into a working class Laboursupporting family, he went to grammar school and
Leeds Polytechnic.

He was chairman of the Young Conservatives Association before leading Bradford
District Council for three years.

The 56-year-old once boasted that most Labour MPs would give their right arm for
'my working class roots'.

In 1992, Mr Pickles won the Essex seat of Brentwood and Ongar and has held it
since.

He has been married to wife Irene for more than 30 years.

Mr Pickles replaced Caroline Spelman, who was moved sideways to the communities
and local government brief as she waits for the outcome of an inquiry into
alleged taxpayer-funded payments to her children's nanny.

Until the 'Nannygate' affair, devout Christian Mrs Spelman, 50, was regarded as
one of the ultimate 'Tory babes'.

The daughter of a banker and wife of a millionaire management consultant, she
was elected the MP for Meriden in the West Midlands in 1997 and became party
chairman in 2007.

But her liberal views have made her unpopular with the Tory grassroots, who
refer to her as 'Caroline Spelperson'.

In other changes, Dominic Grieve was switched from home affairs to the justice
brief, Alan Duncan was moved to make way for Mr Clarke to become shadow leader
of the Commons, and Theresa May takes over the work and pensions brief.

The only clear casualty of Mr Cameron's reshuffle was Peter Ainsworth, sacked
after several unremarkable years as environment spokesman. He is replaced by
Nick Herbert.

Comment - Page 14

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reshuffle: From left, David Cameron, George Osborne and Ken Clarke, who
has been brought back to the Conservative Party's front line

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron opens his arms to a rebel - and an Essex boy;
* Tories go against public school convention as they slug it out with Labour

BYLINE: Nigel Morris and Ben Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1245 words


HE IS officially the most rebellious Conservative MP in the House of Commons,
but yesterday David Cameron insisted he was setting aside his differences with
Kenneth Clarke over Europe to bring him back into the political front line.

The new shadow Business Secretary's pro-European views have led him to defy Mr
Cameron 33 times in the Commons - far more than any other Opposition
backbencher, new research disclosed yesterday.

Tory chiefs shrugged off the former chancellor's history of opposition to the
party leadership, arguing he had been brought back into the top team to give a
new cutting edge to their planned onslaught on the Government's handling of the
recession.

Mr Cameron also promoted Mark Francois, the strongly Eurosceptic spokesman on
Europe, to the Shadow Cabinet in an attempt to reassure activists that there
would be no change of direction on the issue.

Tory sources said the elevation of Mr Francois, who was educated at an Essex
comprehensive school and Bristol University, was further evidence of Mr
Cameron's determination to appoint shadow ministers from a broader social
background.

The Tory leader's wider-than-expected reshuffle also saw a major promotion for
Chris Grayling, who has been switched from shadow Work and Pensions Secretary to
shadow Home Secretary.

He replaces Dominic Grieve, who has struggled to deliver telling blows on the
Government in the high-profile brief. The tenacious Mr Grayling is now preparing
to focus on rising levels of violent crime and the Government's preparations for
identity cards. Mr Grieve, who is a QC, becomes shadow Justice Secretary and
shadow Attorney General.

The populist Eric Pickles, whose campaigning skills are much admired by Mr
Cameron, moves from shadow Communities Secretary to become Conservative
chairman.

He switches jobs with Caroline Spelman, who is still awaiting the outcome of an
investigation by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards into claims that
she misused a Commons allowance to pay a nanny.

Mr Clarke is replacing Alan Duncan, whose relations with the leadership have
become strained. He becomes shadow Leader of the Commons in succession to
Theresa May, who takes on her eighth Shadow Cabinet job as Work and Pensions
spokesman.

Nick Herbert is promoted from shadow Justice Secretary to Environment spokesman.
He replaces Peter Ainsworth, who has been sacked from the Shadow Cabinet.

Tory sources said yesterday that Mr Cameron had assembled his "strongest
possible" team ready for a general election, but evidence of the risky nature of
Mr Clarke's appointment was underlined by research by Nottingham University.

Mr Clarke's bitter opposition to his party's line on the Lisbon Treaty led him
to defy Tory whips 33 times since December 2005, when Mr Cameron became party
leader.

His rebelliousness even outstripped that of the former Tory MP Bob Spink, who
revolted 23 times before quitting the Conservatives to join the UK Independence
Party.

Last night Mr Clarke tried to play down his record, insisting that all the votes
were on the Lisbon Treaty. He said: "I have not been rebellion on a whole range
of issues, far from it."

The first evidence of a Eurosceptic backlash against Mr Clarke's appointment
emerged yesterday as the Bruges Group think-tank attacked him as "Jurassic
Clarke" and said his return to the Shadow Cabinet "trampled over" Mr Cameron's
pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

The Tory leader said yesterday that the return of Mr Clarke meant the party had
the "best economic team". Mr Cameron added: "He has more experience of dealing
with tough economic challenges than Gordon Brown's entire Cabinet. With the
other changes I have made today, we have combined fresh thinking with
experience, hope and change with stability and common sense."

Mr Clarke said he accepted the party had reached a "settled view on European
matters", and promised: "I will not oppose the direction David will set on
European policies in the future."

MICHAEL BROWN, PAGE 37

Team Cameron The Shadow Cabinet

* Leader of the Lords Lord Strathclyde

* Foreign Secretary William Hague

* Chancellor George Osborne

* Energy and Climate Change Greg Clark

* Business and Enterprise Kenneth Clarke

* Leader of the Commons Alan Duncan

* Defence Liam Fox

* Europe Mark Francois

* Wales Cheryl Gillan

* Children, Schools and Families Michael Gove

* Home Secretary Chris Grayling

* Justice Dominic Grieve

* Chief Secretary to the Treasury Philip Hammond

* Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Nick Herbert

* Culture, Media and Sport Jeremy Hunt

* Health Andrew Lansley

* Policy Review & Research Oliver Letwin

* Cabinet Office Francis Maude

* Work and Pensions and Women Theresa May

* Chief Whip Patrick McLoughlin

* International Development Andrew Mitchell

* Scotland David Mundell

* Security Baroness Neville-Jones of Hutton

* Northern Ireland Owen Paterson

* Chairman Eric Pickles

* Housing Grant Shapps

* Communities & Local Government Caroline Spelman

* Transport Theresa Villiers

* Community Cohesion & Social Action Baroness Warsi of Dewsbury

* Innovation, Universities and Skills David Willetts

* Chief Whip in the Lords Baroness Anelay of St Johns

Chris Grayling

CHRIS GRAYLING was rewarded with a big promotion for years of service as the
Conservatives' frontbench attack dog. Mr Grayling won the key role of shadow
Home Secretary after landing a series of blows on Labour ministers in his roving
role harrying the Government. The grammar school boy from Buckinghamshire
abandoned TV production for business before entering Parliament as MP for Epsom
and Ewell in 2001 and has held a series of shadow ministerial jobs, most
recently Work and Pensions spokesman. He used this portfolio to build his
reputation as an aggressive operator, flourishing a full leak of the
Government's White Paper on welfare reform days before its publication. The
46-year-old, who has two children, is also an expert on inland waterways and
wrote a history of the Bridgwater Canal.

Mark Francois

MARK FRANCOIS was among a small band of Tory MPs who arrived in Parliament in
Tony Blair's second election landslide eight years ago.

His impressive work rate and forensic mind won him promotion to the front bench
the following year and to the high-profile post of shadow Europe minister in
2007. Yesterday he became the first Basildon comprehensive school product to sit
in the Shadow Cabinet. The diminutive Mr Francois, 43, was a lobbyist and
councillor in his home town before becoming MP for nearby Rayleigh, beating
Boris Johnson to secure the nomination for the safe seat. Strongly Eurosceptic,
the former Territorial Army officer used his maiden Commons speech to warn
against being "subsumed by a foreign superstate that ignores our traditions".

Eric Pickles

WITH HIS distinctive Yorkshire brogue and permanent battle with the bulge, Eric
Pickles could not be further from the stereotype of the fast-rising Tory
front-bencher.

But Mr Pickles, with long experience of winning votes in unpromising areas for
the Tories, is much admired by David Cameron and party activists. His promotion
to the Conservative chairmanship is a reward for masterminding last year's
stunning by-election victory in Crewe and Nantwich. Educated at a Keighley
grammar school and Leeds Polytechnic, Mr Pickles, 56, came to national
prominence in 1988 when he led the Tories to power on Bradford City Council. His
triumph was hailed by the party as proof that the Thatcherite message could be
taken to Labour's northern heartlands.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 19, 2009 Monday 9:09 PM GMT

Ken Clarke's return gives a huge hostage to David Cameron's fortunes

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 523 words


Bunter Clarke's postal order has finally arrived. The Tories' last big beast in
captivity has been appointed, with much fanfare, to savage Peter Mandelson as
shadow business secretary. The first problematic aspect that strikes one is he
will have to do so through a megaphone, since Lord Mandelson reclines on the red
leather benches reserved for the privileged orders at the other end of the
Palace of Westminster, while Ken is restricted to the plebeian environment of
another place.

That is why the seductive vision of a titanic Ken/Mandy parliamentary duel was
always a mirage. Of course, that will not stop Ken assailing Mandy with powerful
rhetoric deconstructing his fiscal house of cards, notably in television
studios; but the lack of direct connection is somehow symptomatic of the many
question marks hanging over this Tory reshuffle.

We are told Ken has given his parole not to mutiny and hand out weapons to
Europhiles. Will that pledge survive the European elections? Probably; but will
it survive a general election campaign? We may be sure Labour, directed with
weasel cunning by Mandy, will seize every opportunity to taunt Clarke with
Euro-jibes. The danger of this appointment is that it is potentially divisive -
a hazard the Tories have not faced recently.

With donors, MPs and supporters taking the Wellingtonian view of Clarke "I don't
know what he does to the enemy but, by God, he terrifies me", David Cameron may
have created unnecessary tensions within his party. What is most hazardous about
this particular issue, at donor and voter level, is that it plays into the hands
of UKIP. The old Tory grandees' patronising axiom "They have nowhere else to go"
is now obsolete.

Nor has this danger been neutralised by a compensatory injection of dry Tories.
What does John Redwood have to do to prove his fitness for shadow office? All
right, we realise he does not know the words of the Welsh national anthem (how
many members have heard Ken give a rendition of it in Annie's Bar?) and Labour
would make much of his supposedly extraterrestrial origins - for a month, until
the joke palled. Are he and Michael Fallon so dismally ungifted that they have
to yield to the claims of Caroline Spelman and Dominic Grieve?

It is unsurprising that Alan Duncan has been sent off-piste, after preferring a
parliamentary skiing outing to meetings with recession-hit businessmen around
the country (what relevance could that possibly have had for the shadow business
secretary?), to replace the eminently replaceable Theresa May as shadow leader
of the House; and that household name (though possibly not in your household)
Peter Ainsworth has bowed out. Yet, despite the elevation of Chris Grayling, the
opportunity for a more aggressive team that would take the fight to the enemy
has been lost.

This reshuffle is unsettling rather than consolidating. It gives too many
hostages to fortune, even before taking into consideration the biggest objection
to Ken Clarke - not his Europhile predilections, but his notorious laziness and
fondness for cutting corners. Its timing, too, is disastrous. Sorry, Dave, but
this effort gets Beta minus.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 18, 2009

Monetary union has left half of Europe;
trapped in depression

BYLINE: AMBROSE EVANS-PRITCHARD

SECTION: CITY; INTERNATIONAL VIEWPOINT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 951  words


Events are moving fast in Europe. The worst riots since the fall of Communism
have swept the Baltics and the south Balkans. An incipient crisis is taking
shape in the Club Med bond markets. S&P has cut Greek debt to near junk.
Spanish, Portuguese, and Irish bonds are on negative watch.

Dublin has nationalised Anglo Irish Bank with its half-built folly on North Wall
Quay and euro73bn ( pounds 65bn) of liabilities, moving a step nearer the line
where markets probe the solvency of the Irish state.

A great ring of EU states stretching from Eastern Europe down across Mare
Nostrum to the Celtic fringe are either in a 1930s depression already or soon
will be. Greece's social fabric is unravelling before the pain begins, which
bodes ill.

Each is a victim of ill-judged economic policies foisted upon them by elites in
thrall to Europe's monetary project - either in EMU or preparing to join - and
each is trapped.

As UKIP leader Nigel Farage put it in a rare voice of dissent at the euro's 10th
birthday triumph in Strasbourg, EMU-land has become a Völker-Kerker - a "prison
of nations'', to borrow from the Austro-Hungarian Empire.

This week, Riga's cobbled streets became a war zone. Protesters armed with
blocks of ice smashed up Latvia's finance ministry. Hundreds tried to force
their way into the legislature, enraged by austerity cuts.

"Trust in the state's authority and officials has fallen catastrophically,''
said President Valdis Zatlers,

who called for the dissolution of parliament.

In Lithuania, riot police fired rubber-bullets on a trade union march. Dogs
chased stragglers into the Vilnia river. A demonstration outside Bulgaria's
parliament in Sofia turned violent on Wednesday.

These three states are all members of the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM2), the
euro's pre-detention cell. They must join. It is written into their EU
contracts.

The result of subjecting ex-Soviet catch-up economies to the monetary regime of
the leaden West has been massive overheating. Latvia's current account deficit
hit 26pc of GDP. Riga property prices surpassed Berlin.

The inevitable bust is proving epic. Latvia's property group Balsts says Riga
flat prices have fallen 56pc since mid-2007. The economy contracted 18pc
annualised over the last six months.

Leaked documents reveal - despite a blizzard of lies by EU and Latvian officials
- that the International Monetary Fund called for devaluation as part of a
euro7.5bn joint rescue for Latvia. Such adjustments are crucial in IMF deals.
They allow countries to claw their way back to health without suffering
perma-slump.

This was blocked by Brussels - purportedly because mortgage debt in euros and
Swiss francs precluded that option. IMF documents dispute this. A society is
being sacrificed on the altar of the EMU project.

Latvians have company. Dublin expects Ireland's economy to contract 4pc this
year. The deficit will reach 12pc of GDP by 2010 on current policies. "This is
not sustainable,'' said the treasury. Hence the draconian wage deflation now
threatened by the Taoiseach.

The Celtic Tiger has faced the test bravely. No government in Europe has been so
honest. It is a tragedy that sterling's crash should have compounded their woes
at this moment. To cap it all, Dell is decamping to Poland with 4pc of GDP.
Irish wages crept too high during

the heady years when Euroland

interest rates of 2pc so beguiled the nation.

Spain lost a million jobs in 2008. Madrid is bracing for 16pc unemployment by
year's end.

Private economists fear 25pc before it is over. Spain's wage inflation has
priced the workforce out of Europe's markets. EMU logic is wage deflation for
year after year. With Spain's high debt levels, this is impossible.

Either Mr Zapatero stops the madness, or Spanish democracy will stop him. The
left wing of his PSOE party is already peeling off, just as the French left is
peeling off to fight "l'euro dictature capitaliste''.

Italy's treasury awaits each bond auction with dread, wondering if can offload
euro200bn of debt this year. Spreads reached a fresh post-EMU high of 149 last
week. The debt compound noose is tightening around Rome's throat. Italian
journalists have begun to talk of Europe's "Tequila Crisis'' - a new twist.

They mean that capital flight from Club Med could set off an unstoppable
process.

Mexico's Tequila drama in 1994 was triggered by a combination of the Chiapas
uprising, a current account haemorrhage, and bond jitters. The dollar-peso peg
snapped when elites began moving money to US banks. The game was up within days.

Fixed exchange systems - and EMU is just a glorified version - rupture suddenly.
Things can seem eerily calm for a long time. Politicians swear by the parity.
Remember John Major's "soft-option'' defiance days before the ERM blew apart in
1992? Or Philip Snowden's defence of sterling before a Royal Navy mutiny forced
Britain off the Gold Standard in 1931.

Don't expect tremors before an earthquake - and there is no fault line of
greater historic violence than the crunching plates where Latin Europe meets
Teutonia.

Greece no longer dares sell long bonds to fund its debt. It sold euro2.5bn last
week at short rates, mostly 3-months and 6-months. This is a dangerous game. It
stores up "roll-over risk'' for later in the year. Hedge funds are circling.

Traders suspect that investors are dumping their Club Med and Irish debt
immediately on the European Central Bank in "repo'' actions.

In other words, the ECB is already providing a stealth bail-out for Europe's
governments - though secrecy veils all.

An EU debt union is being created, in breach of EU law. Liabilities are being
shifted quietly on to German taxpayers. What happens when Germany's hard-working
citizens find out?

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Dai Llewellyn, Seducer of the Valleys, is dead at 62

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 280 words


SIR Dai Llewellyn, the quintessential playboy and bon viveur, has died aged 62.
He had been battling cancer and a catalogue of illnesses for six months.
Labelled the Seducer of the Valleys, the Welsh-born baronet was one of London
society's most outrageous figures.

He died on Tuesday night in the Kent hospital where he had been treated since
December, having been diagnosed with prostate cancer, cirrhosis of the liver and
anaemia in August.

Earlier in the day, his daughters Arabella, 24, a banker, and Olivia, 28, an
actress, together with his ex-wife Vanessa, niece of the former Duke of Norfolk,
were at his bedside for three hours saying their farewells.

An Old Etonian, he was the eldest son of Sir Harry Llewellyn, an Olympic
equestrian. From the 1960s onwards he slipped effortlessly into a world of
hard-partying and womanising.

He became a favourite of the gossip columns and was open about his love of the
high life, which included consuming large amounts of alcohol, claiming to have
drunk eight bottles of wine, a bottle of rum, a bottle of port and a bottle of
vodka in one night.

In an interview in November, he told the Daily Mail he was 'riddled' with
cancer, adding: 'It's all down to the alcohol, it's all my fault. Oh what a joy,
what a pleasure alcohol can bring you.

'It can be one of life's great pleasures, but it can also cause great
downfalls.' In 1980, he married Vanessa Hubbard. The couple divorced seven years
later.

Llewellyn was a staunch supporter of the United Kingdom Independence Party, and
stood for the party in the Welsh Assembly elections in 2007.

His brother Roddy, who had a six-year affair with Princess Margaret, succeeds
him in the baronetcy.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Dai and his final, grave problem

BYLINE: Richard Kay

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 178 words


BEFORE his death on Tuesday, Old Etonian playboy Sir Dai Llewellyn expressed a
wish to be buried next to his mother, the Hon Christine Saumarez, daughter of
the 5th Baron de Saumarez, on her family's Shrubland Park estate at Coddenham,
Suffolk.

But there may be a hiccup because the graveyard was sold recently when her
nephew, the current Lord de Saumarez, now living mainly in Guernsey, put his
1,300-acre estate up for sale, ironically to meet death duties of his mother,
Christine's elder sister. While the main house, which featured in the Bond film
Thunderball, remains unsold, some of the land, including the family burial plot,
was snapped up.

Apropos Dai, former UKIP aide Annabelle Fuller recalls the moment she and party
leader Nigel Farage drove Dai to hand in his papers as a candidate for the Welsh
Assembly.

'As we crossed the Severn bridge, he reached in his bag, pulled out a bottle of
claret and three glasses (well four, being endlessly polite he of course offered
the driver one) and said: "Splice the mainbrace!"

'Well, it was 10 o'clock in the morning.'

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday

Obituary of Sir Dai Llewellyn, Bt Notorious Lothario known as the 'Conquistador
of the Canapé Circuit' - or simply 'Dirty Dai'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1478  words


SIR DAI LLEWELLYN, 4th Bt, who died on Tuesday aged 62, became famous as a
playboy, bon viveur and darling of the gossip columns, his reputation reflected
in soubriquets such as "Seducer of the Valleys'', "Conquistador of the Canapé
Circuit'', "Dai 'Lock Up Your Daughters' Llewellyn'' or simply "Dirty Dai''.

The son and heir of the gold-medal-winning equestrian baronet Sir Harry
"Foxhunter'' Llewellyn, and brother of Princess Margaret's one-time paramour
Roddy Llewellyn, Dai Llewellyn was celebrated for his serial seductions of "It''
girls, models and actresses, his relentless appetite for partying and his
outrageous indiscretions.

Good-looking in his youth, with dark Welsh curls, his success with women was
famous. He claimed, in his heyday, to be in the habit of going through Queen
Charlotte's Balls "like a dose of salts''. He insisted, though, that he "never
got up in the morning and thought, 'I'm going to screw three girls today'.''
But: "If it happened, it happened.''

His seduction methods were direct and somewhat lacking in refinement: "I am not
one of these oily Italian method-pullers,'' he said. "Thirty years, and I still
can't undo a bra. The only trick is that I do not waver. I know what I want and
so do they.''

Stories of Llewellyn's priapic exploits, mostly gleefully retailed by the Don
Juan himself, proved irresistible to the tabloid press. The journalist Peter
McKay, who became a friend, was once having lunch with him at San Lorenzo when
Llewellyn suddenly leapt from the table and disappeared for half an hour. "What
happened?'' asked McKay when his host returned, looking flushed. "Oh, I just
remembered,'' said Llewellyn. "I left my secretary tied up in the bath.''

Nor, it seemed, were members of the opposite sex put off by his claim that women
were "past it by the age of 30'', a fact which, in his view, gave older men the
"right'' to have affairs with young girls. In later life, however, he admitted
that time and the accretion of several stones in superfluous body fat were
taking their toll on his technique: "At my age and weight, it's taking me about
a month to laugh the ladies into bed.''

Quite what Llewellyn did by way of a career was never entirely clear. He once
described himself as a "a kind of upper-class redcoat'' who "earned his living
out of being Dai Llewellyn''. In practice this seemed to involve a bit of PR
work, organising the odd celebrity party, and a lot of schmoozing of rich toffs
in jet-set nightclubs such as Tramp and Annabel's. "Dai Llewellyn's London,''
wrote one interviewer, "is a web of reciprocal favours, backhanders and feuds
which require all his reputed Machiavellianism to manage.''

One feud was that with his younger brother Roddy, with whom he fell out in the
1970s after he spilt the beans in the press about Roddy's relationship with
Princess Margaret. Dai claimed that his indiscretion ("for which I have eaten
humble pie ever since'') was merely a "pretty tame'' section of a four-part
autobiographical series about his own life, published when the affair with
Princess Margaret was already "common knowledge''. Roddy Llewellyn, though, took
a different view.

If truth be told, Dai's appetite for humble pie had its limits. When Roddy
Llewellyn told the Daily Mail in 2006 that he could not forgive his brother's
"betrayal'', Dai dismissed him, with characteristic insouciance, as a "snob and
a resentful, chippy little twerp'', proclaiming that he had become "bored to
tears by the little twit''. The brothers were reconciled shortly before Dai's
death.

David St Vincent Llewellyn was born at Aberdare on April 2 1946, followed, 18
months later, by his brother. Their family were Monmouthshire yeomanry who found
coal under the farm in the 19th century and then wangled a Lloyd George
baronetcy. Their father, Sir Harry Llewellyn, 3rd Bt, would win a gold medal for
showjumping at the 1952 Olympics on his horse Foxhunter. A second son, he had
already been knighted for services to sport when he inherited the baronetcy from
his elder brother, Rhys, in 1978. Dai's mother was the second daughter of the
5th Lord de Saumarez and a descendant of Admiral Sir James Saumarez,
second-in-command to Nelson at the Battle of the Nile. "I hardly had a relation
who wasn't titled,'' Dai Llewellyn claimed.

After an early childhood spent at Gobion Manor near Abergavenny, the family
moved to Llanvair Grange in Monmouthshire. Dai was sent to prep school at
Hawtrees, and then to Eton, where his romantic inclinations were aroused by the
custom of soliciting letters from girls at nearby schools. "All the letters that
came back were put in a rack, and if the postmark said 'Ascot' then you knew it
was from a Heathfield girl; West Sussex was 'Southover'.'' Unfortunately, Dai
was a late developer. His voice did not break until he was 15, so the coveted
letters never did arrive in his rack.

He made up for lost time when he went to study Philosophy at the University of
Aix-en-Provence. There he lost his virginity to an older, American woman "who
smelt so disgusting that it put me off doing it again for several months''.

On his return to Britain, however, he "met someone wonderful and never looked
back''. His career as a fully fledged cad and bounder had begun.

After Aix, Llewellyn got a salesman's job with Qantas, ran a travel agency in
Cardiff and moved for a while into advertising. Then, in the late 1960s, he was
invited to lunch by Victor Lownes, who ran the Playboy Club and had recently
bought the Clermont casino from John Aspinall and wanted Llewellyn's advice.
When Llewellyn suggested that it needed "more window-dressing to bring the Arabs
in'', Lownes responded my making him the club's "social secretary''. "Start on
Monday,'' Lownes ordered. "Double the salary.''

According to Llewellyn, his job description was "to sit at a table, drink a lot
of claret, eat a lot and have a simply lovely time''. Though he subsequently
left the Clermont and opened Tokyo Joe's in Piccadilly and Wedgies on the King's
Road (eventually resigning from both, "exhausted''), he continued to live the
onerous life of a Mayfair boulevardier into the 21st century.

It was Nigel Dempster, in the early 1970s, who first noticed Llewellyn's
impressive track record in the bedroom and elevated him to the status of gossip
column fixture: "There was no Aids or anything - it was a marvellous time,''
Llewellyn reminisced. Quite what Sir Harry Llewellyn made of his son's chosen
career is not recorded. While Dai admitted that his father would probably have
preferred him to be "slightly more sensible'', he felt that his parents were at
least relieved that he had not turned out to be a "pansy''.

Llewellyn claimed to have fallen in love three times, firstly with Lady
Charlotte Curzon, to whom he claimed to have proposed 100 times in a single
evening (she turned him down). In the 1970s he was engaged to Beatrice Welles,
daughter of Orson, but their relationship became so tempestuous that people
stopped inviting them to parties. Inevitably, he broke it off.

In 1980 he married Vanessa Hubbard, the convent-educated niece of the Duke of
Norfolk. Signalling his determination to go on as if nothing much had happened,
he reportedly rolled up at the wedding, reached out of the car and handed a
near-empty bottle of champagne to a group of gawping youths. The couple had two
daughters but divorced seven years later.

Other women in his life included the 1960s pin-up Annegret Tree, Tessa Dahl,
daughter of Roald ("much prettier than Sophie''), Judith (now Lady) Wilcox and
the Swedish-born interior designer Christel Jurgenson, to whom he was briefly
engaged in 2006.

After succeeding in the baronetcy on the death of his father in 1999, Dai
Llewellyn bought a house at Aberbeeg, near Abertillery, and briefly flirted with
the idea of returning to his roots and becoming a respectable pillar of Welsh
society. In practice he spent little time in Wales, and in 2003 he announced he
was packing his bags, claiming he had been forced out by rampant nationalism.

Llewellyn promised the (largely indifferent) Welsh people that he would return
across the Severn Bridge only for his own funeral, but in 2007 he injected some
excitement into the Welsh Assembly election campaign by announcing that he would
fight the marginal Cardiff North seat for the UK Independence Party. Britain's
withdrawal from the EU was "the most important issue there is'', he proclaimed,
and the Assembly was "a load of Horlicks''.

He never grew up. On a visit to South Africa aged 60, he claimed to have fallen
through a bedroom floor into a cellar while "attempting to roger a girl called
Nettie'', the girlfriend of a friend. "I wish I could tell you this was an
isolated incident,'' he told a journalist.

Sir Dai Llewellyn is survived by his two daughters and numerous former
girlfriends. His brother succeeds him in the baronetcy.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Customs men keeping tabs on duty-free day trippers

SECTION: NEWS ; 10

LENGTH: 235  words


DAY trippers' personal details are being handed to Customs officials before they
leave the country as part of a heavy-handed bid to clamp down on duty free
goods, the Daily Express can reveal.

Coach companies running 'booze cruises' and tobacco-buying trips to France and
Belgium are being forced to hand over the names of passengers at British ferry
ports on their outward journeys.

The new system has been put in place because of "difficulties" in keeping track
of day trippers, according to EU documents seen by the Daily Express.

Yesterday HMRC said there was "nothing unusual" about the operations. But last
night there was outrage that day trippers were being treated like criminals.

Conservative MEP for London Syed Kamall said: "Once again we see the British
Government treating honest people who take advantage of their rights in a single
market being treated like criminals.

"The Labour Government and Labour MEPs have consistently attacked the
cross-Channel shopper and it is high time they stopped.

"The Government should be using its resources to tackle smugglers of narcotics,
people and counterfeit goods, not to abuse consumers."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "This feels just like East Germany before the
wall came down.We are rapidly moving to a police state, where citizen informs on
citizen to the detriment of all."

He added: "I am demanding to know which firms are part of this informant
scheme."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bulk booze buying is part of the trip

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Customs 'spies' try to put the brake on booze cruises

SECTION: NEWS ; 10

LENGTH: 480  words


DAY-TRIPPERS' personal details are being given to Customs officials before they
leave the country in a heavy-handed bid to clamp down on people bringing back
cut-price cigarettes and alcohol, the Daily Express can reveal.

Coach companies running "booze cruises" and tobacco-buying trips to France and
Belgium are being forced to hand over passengers' names at British ferry ports
on their outward journeys.

The system has been introduced due to "diffiulties" in keeping track of frequent
day-trippers, according to EU documents seen by the Daily Express.

Yesterday HM Revenue & Customs said there was "nothing unusual" about the
operation.

But there was uproar last night over the treatment of hundreds of thousands of
day-trippers.

Tory MEP for London Syed Kamall said: "Once again we see the British Government
treating like criminals honest people who take advantage of their rights in a
single market. The Labour Government and Labour MEPs have consistently attacked
the crossChannel shopper and it is high time they stopped.

"The Government should be using its resources to tackle genuine smugglers of
narcotics, people and counterfeit goods, not abusing consumers."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "This feels just like East Germany before the
wall came down.

"We are rapidly moving to a police state, where citizen informs on citizen to
the detriment of all." He added: "I am demanding to know which companies are
part of this informant scheme. The public has a right to know if their client
confidentiality is being breached in this way."

The clampdown comes despite an EU law stating there is no official limit on the
amount of alcohol and cigarettes people can bring home, provided they are for
personal use.

HMRC "guidance" levels are 3,200 cigarettes, 400 cigarillos, 200 cigars, 10
litres of spirits, 90 litres of wine and 110 litres of beer - commonly known as
"duty-frees".

Laszlo Kovacs, EU Commissioner for taxation and excise, said owners of coach
businesses were "encouraged" to meet HMRC managers and provide a list of
passengers before vehicles left the UK.

This "may assist with identifying repeat offenders or other individuals to whom
the Border Force would like to speak".

He added: "The Commission has understood from contacts with the UK authorities
that in particular smugglers using coaches as a means of transport are difficult
to catch."

HMRC said last night: "Custom officers working alongside the UK Border Agency
have a role in protecting the public purse from loss revenue and safeguarding
the businesses of legitimate traders and independent retailers."

Last November MEPs voted to slash tobacco allowances by 90 per cent and alcohol
limits by half for shoppers bringing goods home from other EU countries.

The European Parliament set strict new guidelines of 400 cigarettes for personal
use.

But the 27 member states rejected the proposals due to a public outcry.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The ultimate playboy;
Dai Llewellyn's death brings to an end a life devoted to the shameless pursuit
of pleasure. John Walsh raises a glass

BYLINE: John Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1290 words


If there was a visual dictionary in which mugshots of famous people took the
place of definitions, the publishers could save on reproduction costs by using
the same picture several times. The words "playboy," "lothario," "socialite,"
"seducer" and the term "bon viveur" could be fully glossed by printing, beneath
all of them, the grinning face and receding hairline of Sir "Dirty" Dai
Llewellyn, who died on Tuesday night. He was the most relentless, priapic
skirt-chaser and partygoer of the Sixties and Seventies, moving through a heady
demi-monde of launches, exclusive nightclubs, exotic holidays and drink-fuelled
adventures. He was a fixture in gossip columns as "the Seducer of the Valleys"
and befriended writers, especially Nigel Dempster.

Llewellyn embodied that period, in the 1960s, when English aristocrats stopped
confining their social lives to ancestral homes and charity functions, and
became middlemen and "fixers" at the extravagant end of PR and business. The
worlds of royalty and entrepreneurship, Old Etonians and Arab-chasing
opportunists, old money and new vulgarity, all met with a resounding crash.

From the Clermont Casino to the Playboy Club (both owned by Victor Lowndes,)
from Tokyo Joe's in Piccadilly and Wedgies in Chelsea (both owned by Llewellyn)
to Annabel's in Berkeley Square (owned by John Aspinall,) a loose convocation of
gamblers, toffs, drunks, facilitators and event organisers scratched each
other's backs and regaled one another with company champagne at Ascot and Tramp.
Dai Llewellyn, the eldest son of Sir Harry "Foxhunter" Llewellyn, a baronet and
Olympic equestrian, pitched himself into this world as soon as he learnt to
drink.

Stories of his debauched lifestyle abound. Lunching one day with the journalist
Peter McKay at San Lorenzo in Knightsbridge, Llewellyn seemed to remember
something important, leapt from the table, exited the restaurant and returned an
hour later. "What happened?" asked McKay. "I suddenly remembered," said
Llewellyn, "I left my secretary tied up in the bath." Invited by The Independent
in 2006 to contribute to the "My Week" slot, he reported: "I am in South Africa
on business. I'm staying in the same house in Hermanus [in Cape Town] where I
fell through the floor last year attempting to roger a girl called Nettie.
Luckily they've mended the hole. The bedroom has become famous, apparently,
something of a tourist attraction."

He proudly boasted that "in the late Sixties and early Seventies, I was getting
through debutantes like a dose of salts". Although his career as a hard-drinking
Casanova started on a negative note - he lost his virginity at Aix-en-Provence
university to an older American woman "who smelt so disgusting that it put me
off doing it again for several months" - he racked up an impressive list of
conquests: Orson Welles's daughter Beatrice, Roald Dahl's daughter Tessa,
Annegret Tree, the Sixties beauty, Lady Charlotte Curzon (to whom he proposed
100 times in the course of an evening - but she turned him down) and Vanessa
Hubbard, niece of the Duke of Norfolk, whom he married in 1980. It lasted seven
years and produced two daughters, Arabella and Olivia, whom he adored. He drove
up to his wedding swigging a bottle of champagne and, at the church, extended a
languid arm through the car window and handed the remains of the bubbly to a
gang of local youths.

His technique was simply, he said, to laugh women into bed. "I am not one of
these oily Italian method-pullers," he confessed. "Thirty years and I still
can't undo a bra. The only trick is that I do not waiver. I know what I want and
so do they."

He fell in love three years ago with the Swedish interior designer Christel
Jurgenson and planned to marry her, but she dumped him after 18 months because
he kept altering the wedding plans. Writing about the affair, he revealed: "A
few months after meeting her, I turned to her and said of myself, in the third
person: 'You are the last great love of Dai Llewellyn.'" Given such an approach,
it's surprising they lasted as long as they did.

His drinking was legendary. He drank ludicrous quantities of wine every day, at
lunch, dinner and the cocktail hour between, and prided himself on his ability
to remain lucid and charming, even after "bathfuls". And in case he might ever
find himself stranded without (horrors!) a barman or waiter within yelling
distance, he used to carry with him a briefcase in which he stowed two glasses
and three bottles - of port, brandy and whisky.

Reflecting last September on his alcohol consumption, Llewellyn wrote: "How much
did I drink? I have been asked that many times in my life, and the truth is,
it's so much that I can't really quantify. But I do recall one particularly
heavy night on my own when I consumed eight bottles of wine, one bottle of
vodka, one bottle of rum and one bottle of port. People look unconvinced when I
say this, but at 6am I was totally lucid."

His relationship with his younger brother, Roddy, a keen organic landscape
gardener, deteriorated after Dai blew the whistle on Roddy's affair with
Princess Margaret in the Seventies. In 2006, Roddy told the Daily Mail how he
resented his brother's "betrayal". His brother retorted by calling him "a snob
and a resentful, chippy little twerp". But they made it up before he died.

He inherited the baronetcy in 1999 on his father's death, but did himself few
favours with his Welsh neighbours. He bought houses in the south Wales villages
of Aberbeeg and Llanhilleth, but turned his back on all things Welsh in 2003
after the cottages were vandalised. He claimed a new strain of "xenophobic
nationalism" was in the valleys, and objected to the promotion of the Welsh
language, calling it "an unhealthy and essentially racist agenda". He joined the
UK Independence Party in the 2007 Welsh Assembly elections but came last. When
he announced he would only return to Wales in a coffin, the neighbours retorted
that he would not be missed.

He died, officially, of bone cancer, aged 62. He also had prostate cancer,
diabetes, extreme anaemia and cirrhosis of the liver, and he knew the real cause
of all his illnesses: drink. "I can't say that I regret my relationship with
alcohol, as it was something I did awfully well," he wrote. "But let me say
this: there's no difference between an alcohol-diseased body in a hospital bed,
whether it belongs to an Old Etonian baronet like myself or a guy sleeping rough
on the street." Right up to the end he was still drinking a glass of wine every
day, and telling young women: "My dear, you're as pretty as a primrose." He
hated being ill. "Before this," he said in hospital, "I was like someone in The
Bonfire of the Vanities. I was king of the world. I was invincible, above the
rules of society. Except I wasn't and it damn near killed me."

Llewellyn's successors

The Twentysomething

HENRY CONWAY

Fun-loving dandy who hosts wild evenings in some of the capital's leading
hotspots. Unashamed and unabashed, he reacted to revelations that his MP father
paid him £32,000 in taxpayers' money by arriving at a nightclub in a horse-drawn
carriage, upstaging Paris Hilton in the process.

The Thirtysomething

DAN MACMILLAN

Branded the "vulgar viscount" by his former squeeze Jade Jagger (whose best
friend, Kate Moss, he subsequently eloped with), the grandson of Harold
Macmillan one day stands to inherit £200m from the family publishing firm. Known
to enjoy his wealth.

The Fortysomething

TIM JEFFRIES

Dubbed the Green Shield Stamps "heir" by fawning society mags, but was left a
measly half a million from grandpa's fortune. Still, is rarely absent from
London's most glamorous soirees, and has escorted a string of beauties including
Elle Macpherson and Claudia Schiffer.

Henry Deedes

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Sir Dai Llewellyn, Bt;
Bon vivant and rake who lived off his charm as a Mayfair socialite and party
organiser but whose health succumbed to a life of excess

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 912 words


Sir Dai Llewellyn was the flamboyant fourth baronet (of Bwllfa), from a
respected Welsh family that had its roots deep in the public, business and
sporting life of the principality. A playboy and charming rogue, he was never
far from the gossip columns and was dubbed "the seducer of the valleys", owing
to a series of amorous conquests. He was once engaged to three women in a single
year, although his friends said that some of the stories written about his
reputedly rackety life were of doubtful authenticity.

The elder son of the 1952 Olympic gold medallist show-jumper, Sir Harry
"Foxhunter" Llewellyn who was a friend of the Duke of Edinburgh, and the brother
of Roddy Llewellyn, the landscape gardener and one-time lover of Princess
Margaret, Dai succeeded his father in 1999. He was, however, something of a
mystery man to his family and was often on acrimonious terms with his brother,
Roddy, the heir to the title, particularly so when in 1975 he published a lurid
account of Roddy's royal affair. Dai eventually apologised for writing the
article and denied that he had been paid a huge sum for doing so. But Roddy said
that he found it difficult to forgive and forget. The estrangement was
compounded when Roddy made disparaging comments about his brother's choice of a
fiancée, describing Christel Jurgenson, 57, a Swedish interior designer whom Dai
had met at a fancy-dress ball hosted by the Countess Gunilla von Bismarck, as "a
woman of a certain age". He was equally dismissive of the proposed wedding
venue, in Marbella, branding the Spanish resort "common". The sniping between
the brothers spilt over into the tabloid press and celebrity magazines, with Dai
vowing never to see his brother again. In the end the marriage did not take
place, and the brothers were reconciled last year when it became clear that Dai
was dangerously ill..

David St Vincent Llewellyn was born in London in 1946. He was brought up at the
family houses, Gobion Manor and Llanfair Grange, both near Abergavenny, Gwent,
from which his father led a life in which public duty was mixed with business,
farming and equine interests. His mother was the Hon Christine de Saumarez, the
second daughter of the 5th Baron de Saumarez, a family that had its origins in
Guernsey, but which lived at Shrubland Park, near Ipswich, Suffolk, famed for
its Italianate garden, designed in the style of the Villa d'Este in Tivoli near
Rome. He was proud of his lineage. His middle name,

St Vincent, was in recognition of the friendship between James Saumarez, the 1st
Lord de Saumarez, and Admiral of the Red [squadron], John Jervis, the 1st Earl
of St Vincent, who vanquished the Spanish fleet off Cape St Vincent in 1797. De
Saumarez was second in command to Nelson at the Battle of the Nile the following
year.

Llewellyn was first sent to Eton but was taken away, continuing his education at
Milton Abbey School, Dorset, and the University of Aix-en-Provence. He was an
accomplished linguist.

In 1980 he was married to Vanessa Hubbard, a niece of the 17th Duke of Norfolk.
They had two daughters, but were divorced in 1987. Llewellyn's career was hardly
conventional. He described himself as "an impresario, writer and broadcaster".
When he was 21 he set off round the world to make his fortune but, not having
done so, returned to London two years later and worked as a travel agent,
launching the travel arm of WH Smith. Later he was recruited by Victor Lowndes,
who ran the Playboy club and was proprietor of the Clermont Club in Berkeley
Square, to act as the Clermont's social secretary. When Llewellyn left the
Clermont he opened Tokyo Joe's in Piccadilly and Wedgies in the Kings Road,
eventually resigning from both.

In the 1990s he was the director of the Dorchester Club. Once a compulsive
gambler, he kicked the habit and concentrated on organising social events. He
remained an inveterate party goer.

At one stage in his life as a club and casino habitué, he was said to have been
the inspiration for "Dangerous Dai Llewellyn" in the Harry Potter books. The
Harry Potter Lexicon describes "Dangerous Dai Llewellyn" as a famous Quidditch
player for the Caerphilly Catapults, who, tragically, was eaten by a chimaera
while on holiday on Mykonos.

In real life he listed his recreations as equestrian sports and wildlife
conservation.

He was a Knight of the Military and Hospitaller Order of St Lazarus of Jerusalem
(KLJ), one of the orders of chivalry created at the time of the First Crusade in
the 11th century, the members of which devote themselves to international
humanitarian aid. He drove relief convoys to war-torn former Yugoslavia for six
months in 1992.

A notable bon vivant, he was a Chevalier de l'Ordre des Coteaux de Champagne,
the only official champagne fraternity in the world, founded by a group of
French aristocrats in the reign of Louis XlV. Its 4,000 worldwide members are
known for their appreciation of champagne.

Llewellyn, a supporter of the United Kingdom Independence Party, stood in the
2007 National Assembly for Wales elections as a candidate in Cardiff North where
he came last, polling 3.7 per cent of the vote.

He had, said a close friend, "a great knowledge of life, and quite simply, was
always tremendous fun. In an earlier, more elegant age he would have been known
as a boulevardier." He is survived by his two daughters.

Sir Dai Llewellyn, Bt, playboy and bon vivant, was born on April 2, 1946. He
died of cancer on January 13, 2009, aged 62

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Llewellyn: he was always upbeat and ready for a party and in one
particular year was engaged to three women
IRENEUSZ MATUSIAK / CAMERA PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

Dai, the prince of playboys, is dead aged 62

BYLINE: Richard Kay

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 615 words


SIR Dai Llewellyn, the quintessential playboy and bon viveur, died last night.

He was 62 and had been battling cancer and a catalogue of illnesses for six
months.

Labelled the Seducer of the Valleys, the Welsh-born baronet was one of London
society's most outrageous figures.

A hard-drinking, hard-partying womaniser who was also a devoted father to his
two daughters and a loyal friend.

His death robs London of an exotic creature, at times a strutting colourful
peacock who nevertheless reinvented himself from nightclub greeter to pop singer
to would-be politician.

No stories about Llewellyn's life were exaggerated, certainly not his appetite
for wine, women and song.

He died in the Kent hospital where he had been treated since December. Earlier
in the day his daughters Arabella, 24, a banker, and Olivia, 28, an actress,
together with his ex-wife Vanessa, niece of the former Duke of Norfolk, were at
his bedside for three hours saying their farewells.

His close friend Ingrid Seward, the widow of the Daily Mail journalist Ross
Benson who had also helped care for Dai, was there too. Almost until the end he
was still relishing a glass of wine a day. 'Doctor's orders, old boy,' he told
wellwishers. But last year the high living finally caught up with him. In August
doctors told him he had prostate cancer, cirrhosis of the liver and anaemia.

Within a few weeks he learned the cancer had spread into his back, shoulder and
head. He dealt with this catastrophic news in much the same cheerful manner that
he had faced other setbacks throughout his life.

An Old Etonian, he was the eldest son of Sir Harry Llewellyn, an Olympic
equestrian whose horse Foxhunter was as famous in the post-war years as Red Rum
was to a later generation. His father was a hard act to follow but so too was
his younger brother Roddy, a landscape gardener who began an affair with
Princess Margaret in the 1970s.

It was perhaps a combina- tion of these things that convinced Dai that an
ordinary life was not for him. From the 1960s onwards he slipped effortlessly
into a world of parties, romances and adventure.

He became a favourite at the gossip columns and his indiscreet revelations about
Roddy's affairs caused a rift that was not truly healed until Dai's illness was
well advanced and the two were reconciled late last year.

Three years ago Dai became engaged to Swedish-born interior designer Christel
Jurgenson.

Despite their shared love of smoking, drinking and late nights she dumped him
and the marriage never took place.

He was a fixture at all the right parties and all the right clubs, dancing in
Annabel's, gambling in Aspinall's. In 1967 he set off around the world to make
his fortune, initially as a male model.

When he returned two years later he discovered that the girl he had hoped to
marry, Lady Charlotte Anne Curzon, had gone off with another man.

It was only a minor setback as he seduced some of the great beauties of the age.
Among them was Beatrice Welles, daughter of Orson. He eventually married Vanessa
in 1980 but after seven years they parted. After his divorce he took up with
Annegret Tree, a renowned beauty of the 1960s.

On becoming the fourth baronet in 1999, he employed his talents in opening clubs
and becoming a social fixer for events around the world.

More recently he stood for the UK Independence Party in his native Wales and
despite losing his deposit planned to stand again at the next general election.

He was always short of money, often getting by on his wits, but he generated fun
wherever he went.

Shortly before his death he remained optimistic that he might pull through but
if he didn't he told visitors: 'I've had a wonderful innings and I wouldn't
change a thing.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One for the ladies: The notorious bon viveur with former girlfriend
Claire de Jong in 1991, above. Inset: In 1979

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

GO ON GO ON GO ON MRS DOYLE;
FINE GAEL VETERAN AVRIL READY TO BATTLE BERTIE TO BE NEXT PRESIDENT

BYLINE: BY EOIN REYNOLDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 410 words


AVRIL Doyle is set for an almighty battle with Bertie Ahern to become the next
Irish president.

The popular Fine Gael MEP, who has spent 35 years in politics, yesterday refused
to rule herself out of the running in 2011.

Fine Gael party insiders have said she would make an excellent candidate and
could be the only credible choice if Bertie chooses to run.

When pressed on RTE Radio 1's Tubridy Show yesterday Ms Doyle said: "Come back
and talk to me then when the election starts."

Ms Doyle going head-to-head with Bertie would create a fascinating contest
between two veterans who have pulled off some political coups in their times.
Since becoming the first lady mayor of Wexford, Ms Doyle's career in politics
has featured a series of unexpected feats.

One of her greatest moments was topping the poll in the European elections in
1999. Five years later the party parachuted former television journalist Mairead
McGuinness to run alongside Doyle in the east constituency.

Cynics felt the party was trying to squeeze Doyle out but the remarkable duo
landed over 40 per cent of the vote between them.

Doyle kept her seat, pulling off one of the most remarkable election feats in
Fine Gael's recent history.

She also famously shouted down the United Kingdom Independence Party in one of
the most passionate political speeches of 2008.

In the aftermath of the vote against the Lisbon Treaty the group of right wing
Euro-sceptics arrived in parliament dressed in green jerseys, leprechaun hats
and sporting banners saying "respect the Irish vote".

Ms Doyle fumed: "What a turn up for the history books to see this motley
collection of extreme, right-wing British colleagues, and the odd jailbird
thrown in for good measure, all donning the green jersey.

"How the history books could have been written differently if respect for the
Irish vote from some of our British colleagues had always been there."

Her greatest battle yet would be to beat Bertie to the presidency. He is the
most successful Taoiseach of modern times, remaining in power for 10 years.

Despite tribunal questions over his personal finances, Bertie remains one of the
most popular figures in Irish politics.

It has widely been suggested that if he chose to run the other parties would
pull out of the expensive race.

However, a formidable candidate like Ms Doyle could persuade Fine Gael top brass
to take on Bertie in what would be a clash of the titans.

35 NUMBER OF YEARS AVRIL DOYLE HAS BEEN IN POLITICS

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 16/1 AVRIL DOYLE; 14/1 BERTIE AHERN; Odds on others in running to
replace Mary.. 14/1 MARY O'ROURKE; 40/1 BONO; 66/1 EDDIE HOBBS; 50/1 BOB GELDOF;
80/1 GERRY RYAN; 100/1 MICHAEL O'LEARY; 500/1 SHANE MacGOWAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2009 Tuesday 4:07 PM GMT

European Parliament gloats over the success of the euro

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 297 words


The European Parliament was at its most self-congratulatory today, revelling in
the "extraordinary success" of the euro. Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was there, as
was the Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquín Almunía and the
president of the "euro group", Jean-Claude Juncker. "A bunch of unelected old
men," said Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, afterwards - which isn't wholly fair
to Mr Juncker. Alright, being Prime Minister of Luxembourg is, in population
terms, similar to being leader of Croydon Borough Council; but it is an elected
office.

The new euro coin, showing the sophistication of the intellectual case for
monetary union

I suppose the euro-enthusiasts are entitled to pat themselves on the back: their
currency has survived and even, after its fashion, thrived. It's true that it
pushed prices up; it's true that large minorities remain unhappy about it; it's
true, too, that it is only now being tested. But for all this, its supporters
are entitled to a certain guarded satisfaction.

Guarded satisfaction, though, isn't their style. Rather than saying: "A project
of this magnitude was bound to have teething troubles but, on balance, we're
pleased", they made ludicrous claims about the euro having "boosted
competitiveness", "raised productivity" and "created jobs". (Where? When? How?)
It was, they said, fast becoming the world's chief currency. It was, in short,
an unalloyed triumph (figuratively). Whom, I wondered, were they trying to
convince: the voters or themselves?

The picture, incidentally, is the proposed new design for the euro coin, which
has just been launched in every participating state. It captures rather well, I
think, the sophistication of the arguments for monetary union.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 12, 2009 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Taking a powder run

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 159 words


SHADOW business secretary Alan Duncan was wrong to cut short a Parliamentary ski
trip to Switzerland, according to leading Eurosceptic Lord Pearson of Rannoch.

'He turned tail and ran because the Tories thought it wouldn't look good for him
to be skiing at this particular time,' says the ebullient UKIP peer (pictured
with his daughter, Zara, 24). 'He would have learned a lot more had he stayed.'
Pearson, 66, who was among 40 MPs and peers taking part in the annual ski race
between

Swiss and British parliamentarians at Davos, tells me: 'As junkets go, it's one
of the more serious.

Before the race, there was a formal meeting between the British and the Swiss to
discuss the very thing Duncan was called back over -- the recession.' Duncan had
arrived at the resort without his civil partner, James Dunseath, 39, but left
almost immediately after criticism over his failure to join David Cameron's tour
of British cities affected by the economic downturn..

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 12, 2009 Monday

National: Cameron refuses to rule out Clarke return to shadow cabinet despite
noises off from eurosceptic right

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 630 words


David Cameron has received a stark warning from the Conservative right against
bringing the ex-chancellor Ken Clarke back to the frontbenches, with a former
minister saying the return of the outspoken Europhile in a year of European
elections would "split the party".

The Tory leader is tipped to reorder his frontbench team in the next few days,
but over the weekend the former Tory chairman Norman Tebbit said his one-time
colleague was too "lazy" for frontbench life, while Stuart Wheeler, the party's
biggest donor and a staunch eurosceptic, said he would consider withdrawing
funding if Clarke was given a job.

A reordered Conservative frontbench team has been expected by shadow cabinet
ministers since the return to government of Peter Mandelson in the reshuffle
carried out by Gordon Brown in October. Cameron fine-tuned his lineup by moving
Greg Clark to shadow the climate change minister, Ed Miliband.

However, in recent weeks, Alan Duncan's position has looked increasingly
precarious, with the shadow business secretary on holiday rather than involved
in a shadow cabinet tour of regional businesses. Clarke has been suggested as a
replacement for Duncan.

Speaking yesterday on the BBC's Sunday AM programme, Cameron refused to end the
speculation, saying his team had delivered the best results for the party in 30
years but said there were "ways of improving" it. On Clarke's return, Cameron
said: "As far as I'm concerned he's back already." Clarke has chaired the
party's democracy taskforce and is a regular in the Commons.

The Tory right are set against a Clarke return to the frontbench, fearing his
outspoken nature ahead of European elections would drive the Tory base to vote
Ukip. Tebbit said: "I like Ken. I have a high regard for him. His biggest
defect, though, regardless of policy, is that he is lazy. I think it would be a
nightmare as I don't think he would be able to stick to the party line. It would
imply that we had people at the top of the party who were intent on taking us
into the euro at any cost."

In the BBC interview, conducted at his west London home, Cameron said he had
made mistakes. "I see how unaffordable Labour's spending plans are - perhaps we
could have seen that earlier."

He used the setpiece interview to reiterate his party's commitment to finding
public spending savings from as early as April. Cameron said scrapping ID cards,
children's database and government advertising would help his party pledge a
slower rate of public spending growth.

But senior Labour sources said the savings mentioned had already been earmarked
by the Conservative party to pay for cuts elsewhere, including a Conservative
plan to freeze and eventually cut council tax and to increase prison places.

Labour cast Cameron's actions as at odds with Barack Obama's fiscal stimulus
plan and Germany's decision to do the same after initially sharing Tory
scepticism. Government ministers have written to their Conservative shadows to
ask whether they will sanction spending cuts - technically a spending increase
of 1% - within their respective policy briefs.

The source said the Labour attack on Cameron's strict spending plans would
include the use of "under the radar" methods through local media, Labour groups
on councils and web-based campaigning.

At the weekend Cameron repeated his call for an election and wrote to all of his
candidates urging them to be on guard for a snap poll. A national advertising
campaign is planned and hundreds of thousands of voters are to be targeted with
direct mail. Stanley Fink, former chief executive of hedge fund Man group, has
ben appointed to take charge of the Tories' general election fundraising. He
donated £1m to the party with the promise of further cash when an election is
called.

Jackie Ashley, page 27 >=

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 12, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Anglers' euro war on quota

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 96 words


SEA anglers will have to register all catches under a new EU crackdown.

Britain's five million amateurs vowed to fight the rules with a campaign
launched this week.

Regulations would mean filling in lengthy forms and slap a limit on taking fish
home.

Boat skippers would have to apply for licences.

Only commercial trawlermen currently have to register their catches.

Freshwater and salmon fishermen are rallying behind Britain's 1.4million sea
anglers, urging people to write to MEPs.

The campaign boss, UKIP leader Nigel Farage, said the rules would "turn anglers
into criminals".

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 11, 2009

National: 'Lazy' Clarke would split Tory party, says Tebbit

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 343 words


THE TORY right mounted a concerted campaign to block the return of Kenneth
Clarke to the shadow cabinet last night, when Lord Tebbit said his europhile
former colleague was too "lazy" and would "split the party" down the middle.

With David Cameron expected to announce a reshuffle within days, Tebbit's
intervention was a warning shot against those who see the rumbustuous former
chancellor's return as the way to boost morale and counter a Labour party
reinvigorated by Peter Mandelson.

Tebbit told the Observer that he had always held Clarke in great affection,
despite their many disagreements. But his return would be a "nightmare" and
could seriously damage the Conservatives' chances at both the European elections
in June and a general election, driving natural Tory voters into the arms of the
anti-EU UK Independence party.

"I like Ken. I have got a high regard for him," the former Tory chairman said.
"His biggest defect, though, regardless of policy, is that he is lazy. I think
it would be a nightmare as I don't think he would be able to stick to the party
line. It would imply that we had people at the top of the party who were intent
on taking us into the euro at any cost."

Last night Stuart Wheeler, the party's biggest donor, said he would consider
withdrawing funding if Clarke returned and was allowed to express strong
pro-European views.

Last week, rumours spread in Westminster that the former chancellor and home
secretary would be recalled as shadow business secretary in place of Alan
Duncan. Another option is for Clarke's role as an informal adviser to be
formalised in a committee of "wise men" who would give guidance on economic
policy. They would include other former Tory chancellors, such as Lords Howe and
Lawson.

The pro-Clarke lobby argues that he offers both the experience and "attack dog"
qualities now lacking at the top of the party.

But David Heathcoat-Amory, another respected Tory eurosceptic, said: "I would be
surprised if he came back into the shadow cabinet, given his strident criticism
of party policy on Europe."


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 11, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A blizzard of lies and spin;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 705  words


WOULDN'T it be great if our politicians could rise to the level of events?

Some hope! In five months we shall have an election and many home truths need to
be faced.

Government spending is a runaway train heading for the buffers but are the
engine drivers desperately trying to apply the brakes? Not likely. Messrs Brown
and Darling are shovelling more and more fuel into the boiler.

Government borrowing has ballooned from GBP 519billion a year in 2005 to GBP
671bn today.

Where's this money coming from? Not from us or foreign investors. The Treasury
just prints IOUs (Government bonds) and sells them to the nationalised Bank of
England, which then prints the money to buy them.

That is so-called "quantitative easing". US financier Bernie Madoff is now
serving 150 years in prison for a less brazen fraud.

Both major political parties ought to tell us in words of one syllable how
they'll tackle this. So far, we have seen only the start of a campaign of lies
and spin.

Last week, Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy doss ier", claiming that the
Tories have a GBP 34bn "black hole" in their spending plans. A better criticism
of Tory plans is that they are far too modest and do not begin to address the
avalanche of Government debt which threatens to engulf them if elected.

More than two years ago, when Northern Rock crashed, I wrote that Brown was
finished. That is now obvious to veryone but suicidal Labour MPs. After 13 years
of disastrous wars and economic catastrophe, Labour's credibility is zero. Their
lies and spin are a substitute for confronting reality and an xpression of
contempt for voters.

David Cameron's ories could hardly fail to be an improvement.

Yet, sadly, they also leave much to be desired.

Three years ago, our national debt was less than 30 per cent of national ncome.
The International Monetary Fund now predicts it will be 100 per cent in five
years. The markets are getting nervous about the ability of Brita in 's
politicians to rein in reckless spending.

Last week Pimco, one of the world's largest investment houses, announced that it
will be a net seller of UK bonds this year, presaging interest rate rises before
we are out of recession. Binge drinking is a problem for some people but this
Government's binge spending is a problem for us all.

So far, even the Tories have produced no credible plans to deal with it.
Terrified of being attacked as "uncaring" they deny what we all know must be
done:

spending must be slashed and there is no room for sacred cows.

Cameron's latest poster campaign says he will "cut the deficit, not the NHS".
NHS spending has doubled to GBP 100bn a year since 1997. Does anyone really
believe that money has produced a proportionate increase in patient care? If
not, the NHS's endemic organisational inefficiency ought to be addressed.

Education is another area overdue for a hard-nosed look.

The Government is committed to providing university places for 50 per cent of
all school leavers.

Why? Many so-called "universities" award degrees not worth the paper they are
printed on.

Similarly, basic educational standards in schools have plummeted. "Grade
inflation" tries to disguise the lamentable truth that thousands of teenagers
can barely read and write after 10 years of full-time schooling yet no major
politician will take the radical action necessary to cut spending and improve
results.

The EU costs us tens of billions a year in cash transfers, regulation and red
tape yet Cameron reneged on his "cast-iron pledge" for a referendum on the new
EU Constitution.

AHUGE no vote could have been used to negotiate reductions in the EU's burdens
on us as part of a long-term plan to roll back state interference. By breaking
his word, Cameron not only missed a trick to help sort out Britain's economic
problems but devalued the coin of his own trustworthiness.

The recession is a heaven-sent opportunity to make long-term changes to roll
back the state, while this year's election offers a chance to clear out this
failed and discredited political class.

In 2005, only six voters in 10 bothered to vote and many who did turned to
parties such as UKIP. With MPs' reputations at rock bottom, more and more voters
may join the exodus from the old parties this time round.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELPLESS:
Alistair Darling won't tackle spending

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 11, 2009 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

A blizzard of lies and spin;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 37

LENGTH: 666  words


WOULDN'T it be great if our leading politicians could rise to the level of
events? Some hope! In five months, we shall have a general election and many
home truths need to be faced.

Government spending is a runaway train heading for the buffers but, are the
engine drivers desperately trying to apply the brakes? Not likely. Messrs Brown
and Darling are shovelling more and more fuel into the boiler.

Government borrowing has ballooned from GBP 519billion a year in 2005 to GBP
671billion today.

Where's this money coming from? Not from us or foreign investors. The Treasury
just prints IOUs (Government bonds) and sells them to the nationalised Bank of
England, which then prints the money to buy them.

That is so-called "quantitative easing". Crooked US financier Bernie Madoff is
now serving 150 years in prison for a less brazen fraud.

Both major political parties ought to tell us in words of one syllable how they
intend to bring this runaway train under control.

So far, we have seen only the start of a campaign of lies and spin.

Last week, Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy dossier", claiming that the
Tories have a GBP 34billion "black hole" in their plans for Government spending.
Actually, many of the items in the dossier are not spending promises at all.

Others, like saving GBP 3billion a year from cutting bureaucracy are obviously
achievable. A better criticism of Tory plans is that they are far too modest and
do not begin to address the avalanche of Government debt which threatens to
engulf them if elected in June.

More than two years ago, when Northern Rock crashed, I wrote in this paper that
Brown was finished. That is now painfully obvious to everyone but suicidal
Labour MPs, still clinging to the hopeless loser like limpets on a sunken hull.
After 13 years of disastrous wars and mounting economic catastrophe, their
credibility is zero.

Their lies and spin are a substitute for confronting reality. They are also an
expression of contempt for the voters, whom they obviously think too stupid or
gullible to see through them.

David Cameron's Tories could hardly fail to be an improvement.

Yet, sadly, they also leave much to be desired. Three years ago, our national
debt was less than 30 per cent of national income.

The International Monetary Fund now predicts it will be 100 per cent in five
years.

The markets are getting nervous about the ability of Britain's politicians to
rein in reckless spending.

Last week, Pimco, one of the world's largest investment houses announced that it
will be a net seller of UK bonds this year, presaging interest rate rises before
we are out of recession.

Binge drinking is a problem for some people but this Government's binge spending
is a problem for us all. So far, even the Tories have produced no credible plans
to deal with it. Terrified of being attacked as "uncaring", they deny what we
all know must be done: government spending must be slashed and there is no room
for sacred cows.

The EU costs us tens of billions a year in direct cash transfers, regulation and
red tape. Yet Cameron recently reneged on his "cast-iron pledge" for a
referendum on the new EU Constitution (aka Lisbon treaty).

An overwhelming no vote by the British people could have been used to negotiate
reductions in the EU's burdens on us as part of a long-term plan to roll back
excessive State interference.

By breaking his word on a referendum, Cameron not only missed a trick to help
sort out Britain's economic problems but devalued the coin of his own
trustworthiness.

The recession is a heaven-sent opportunity to make long-term changes to roll
back the State, as Mrs Thatcher did in the Eighties.

Today's politicians squandered her legacy. This year's election offers a chance
to clear out this failed and discredited political class. In 2005, only six
voters in 10 bothered to vote and many who did turned to parties like UKIP as a
refuge.

With MPs' reputations at rockbottom, more and more voters may join the exodus
from the old parties next time round.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chancellor Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy dossier"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 11, 2009

Cameron will need a delicate touch to defuse the Eurosceptic bomb

BYLINE: IAIN MARTIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1220  words


Isn't it good, the Conservative leader likes to say, that the Tories have not
had many rows about Europe for the past couple of years. The subject that
fuelled thousands of headlines about splits and ideological convulsion appears
finally to have lost its power to trouble the party. It is difficult to blame
David Cameron for wanting to avoid a return to the days of division.

Many of you will think that ending or altering Britain's membership of the
European Union is the most important topic of our age. Beyond the need to save
capitalism from the wave of corporatist interference and ineptitude currently
threatening to engulf it, I am inclined to agree.

But Cameron's supporters make a good point: if you want a change in Britain's
relationship with Europe, then first a change of government must be secured.
Touring the country, standing on the back of a flatbed truck festooned with
Union flags and shouting until you are hoarse that democracy is in peril from
the EU, has produced limited electoral returns. Ask William Hague; in the 2001
general election campaign he was that man, on that truck.

As a consequence of these failed tactics, moderate Eurosceptics have
continuously adapted their approach. An excellent new campaign, organised
jointly by the Taxpayers' Alliance, which campaigns for taxpayer value for
money, and Global Vision, which wants a renegotiation with the EU, is the latest
stage of that evolution.

The campaign aims to give greater prominence to the drawbacks of the EU. Their
research suggests that voters do not like hearing politicians drone on about
democracy and the draining of power from Westminster, even though two thirds say
they want to leave the EU or have a looser relationship with it. Voters are
fatalistic about the prospects of the latter ever happening. However, they are
inclined to listen when told how costly and inefficient the current set-up is.

The new campaign will thus be one of credit crunch Euroscepticism, highlighting
waste and the ways in which EU decisions impact directly, in costly ways, on
British lives. Just one example: the landfill directive from Europe is
responsible for inadequate refuse collection by councils. The EU is literally
leaving rubbish on your doorstep.

This should be useful to the Conservatives, who road-tested the rhetoric of
robust scepticism to destruction and need to find a different tone. But the Tory
leadership does not want to hear too much about Europe right now, as it is
worried this might undo its good work so far.

By the mid-Nineties, enough voters to make a difference had concluded that the
Conservatives had too great an interest in sectional infighting over the Europe
issue. Combined with a sense that the party was tired, had mismanaged the
economy and had governed too long, it was an explosive recipe for electoral
obliteration.

And so Cameron set about trying to defuse the bomb of Euroscepticism, even
though he is intrinsically a sceptic himself. In cold, purely political terms,
denying oxygen to debates over European policy has possibly been Cameron's
single best piece of rebranding. It has created the space in which he could
emphasise other areas of concern.

But the EU never went away, and Brussels' appetite for power is undiminished.
Ireland will be forced to have a second referendum on the Lisbon Treaty in
October, having dared to vote "No'' the first time. There will be a torrent of
pro-Treaty propaganda from the EU ahead of polling day.

Before that, on June 4, Britain will vote in elections to the European
parliament. As the YouGov poll published today in The Sunday Telegraph shows,
one in 10 Conservative voters is planning at this stage to vote for the UK
Independence Party, which campaigns for full withdrawal from the EU. This puts
pressure on the Tory leadership to adjust its rhetoric, in an attempt to deter
hard-liners from defecting. In doing so, would it drive away those with more
moderate views? It is certainly a risk.

Steering a path through this tangle is a priority second only to the economy in
the minds of Cameron, shadow chancellor George Osborne and Hague, now shadow
foreign secretary.

At this point, enters a rotund and jolly gentleman who wears suede shoes and
smokes a fat cigar. Ken Clarke, former chancellor, ornithologist, authority on
ale, lover of jazz, and holder of extremely pro-European views, is being tipped
for a return to the shadow cabinet in the looming Conservative reshuffle.

A recall for Clarke, or a rejection of the idea, is going to be the defining
story when the Tory pack is reshuffled (unlikely to be this week but expected
before the end of the month). The mooted return of Clarke is a consequence of
the criticism that the shadow cabinet contains too few big hitters, that the
Tories will need all their heavy firepower available to defeat Brown, and that
"all good men'' should come to the aid of their party.

A possible return for Clarke as shadow business secretary or shadow Leader of
the House is Cameron's trickiest personnel judgment. Clarke has been
surprisingly quiet on Europe of late and noticeably helpful to the Tory
leadership, not least by delivering a robust endorsement of Osborne's handling
of the shadow chancellorship (although Cameron was reminded of the risks
involved when Clarke appeared recently to endorse the government's VAT cut
before changing his mind).

The decision will hinge on Europe, and whether or not Clarke will promise to
keep out of trouble. That is like asking him to stop smoking, says one fellow MP
- although he has quietly given up being deputy chairman and director of British
American Tobacco.

"Ken will have to sign in blood, his own blood hopefully, that he will not cause
trouble,'' says a member of the shadow cabinet. This is a great test for the new
model Conservative party. Whatever his limitations, Clarke has a reach beyond
the Westminster sandpit. If his return is to be a success, he will need to place
Conservative victory ahead of personal vanity, and the Conservative party will
need to tolerate his milder eccentricities. In return, a signal will be sent to
floating voters that the Tories are truly serious about winning again.

The decision will also tell Cameron's party much about their leader's ability to
come to accommodations in the interests of balancing his team. If he pulls it
off, it will be a great boon to the Tories. If it means only a return to
infighting, Labour will quickly brand them "the same old Tories''.

Either way, the Conservatives cannot postpone finding something clear and
coherent to say on Europe. They must find a path between moderate Euroscepticism
and "banging on about Europe''.

The economic crisis has changed the world, and the resulting tensions in the
eurozone are creating stress fractures that could easily force several countries
to leave it this year. If that happens, it will transform the debate about the
future direction of the EU and open up the possibility of a looser relationship
for states that choose it. Some patience is required.

Until then, the new campaign by the Taxpayers' Alliance and Global Vision should
guide the Tories. Best point out, calmly, how expensive the grand project of the
EU is, at a time when there is so little money around. The Eurosceptic way to
voters' hearts should this time be through their wallets.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 11, 2009

Two out of three Britons want Europe and its judges to have less influence on
our lives;
ATTITUDES TO EU

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528  words


ALMOST TWO thirds of voters want a significant loosening of Britain's ties with
the European Union, including an end to the supremacy of the European Court of
Justice.

A YouGov survey for the TaxPayers' Alliance and Global Vision, the Eurosceptic
pressure group, published today, shows that voters remain antagonistic towards
the EU in the wake of the Lisbon Treaty, which increased the powers of Brussels
at the expense of national governments, as well as towards the euro, despite
recent falls in the value of the pound.

The survey - released exclusively to The Sunday Telegraph - also spells out the
threat posed to the Tories by the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) in
elections to the European Parliament, due on June 4.

Ten per cent of those who would vote Conservative in a general election will
back Ukip in the European election, the poll suggests.

David Cameron has been trying to "close down'' Europe as a political issue amid
fears that traditional Tory divisions on the subject could resurface with the
possible return of Kenneth Clarke, the strongly pro-Brussels former chancellor,
to the shadow cabinet.

Overall, 16 per cent of voters want Britain to withdraw from the EU, while 48
per cent would like to see a much looser relationship, with the Government
taking back powers from Brussels and ending the supremacy of the European Court
of Justice over British law.

Added together this makes 64 per cent in favour of weakening Britain's ties with
the EU, compared with 22 per cent in favour of keeping Britain's full
membership.

As things stand, Britain is fully committed to the Lisbon Treaty, which was
passed by the Houses of Parliament without a referendum.

Asked if they favoured joining the euro in the wake of the slump in the pound,
64 per cent said "No'', while 24 per cent backed euro membership.

In the first study of voting intentions for the European parliamentary elections
in June, the Tories are on 35 per cent, six points ahead of Labour on 29 per
cent. The Liberal Democrats are on 15 per cent with Ukip on 7 per cent. After
that come the Greens (5 per cent), the British National Party (4 per cent) and
the Scottish and Welsh nationalists (on 4 per cent nationwide).

Significantly, 10 per cent of Conservative voters at a general election would
switch to Ukip in the European election, compared with only 2 per cent of Labour
voters.

Conservative support could fall still further if Mr Clarke makes a front-bench
return and uses this to make high-profile interventions on European matters.

Some 59 per cent of the population believes that ministers should disregard the
EU's VAT rules if they feel a further cut in VAT is necessary in this year's
Budget. The current rate of 15 per cent is the lowest permitted by Brussels.

Matthew Elliott, the chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, which with
Global Vision has launched a campaign to propel European issues up the political
agenda in the coming weeks, said: "The main political parties have let people
down by avoiding or fudging the EU issue, but it has such a big impact on our
day-to-day lives that it must be dealt with.''

* YouGov polled 2,157 adults between Jan 6 and Jan 8.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

CAN YOU GUESS THE CELEBRITY SIBLINGS;
Their faces may seem oddly familiar -- their life stories are anything but ...

BYLINE: DAVID THOMAS

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 674 words


1 KATE, 65, the teacher daughter of an Essex cab-driver, accompanied her famous
younger sister to trace their relatives in Russia ... and to the Palace when she
was made a dame. In the family, Kate's the boss even though her sister later
became Queen.

2 WHILE his younger, rubber-faced brother is no 'has Bean', Rodney, 59, has been
a lecturer, banker and government adviser and fought for leadership of the UK
Independence Party. He failed -- perhaps he needed a cunning plan.

3LOUISE, 31, doesn't have a lot in common with her posh superstar sister. She's
not rich, she's not famous and, after five years and two children, she's not
married any more, either. On the other hand, she does know how to eat a square
meal.

4 CHRIS, 61, looks like his brother, does more-or-less the same job and is
married to an ex-model.

However, his band plays pubs and he lives in Somerset, instead of jet-setting.
But who's to say he doesn't get more satisfaction.

5 While his crocodile rockin' halfbrother Reg became one of the most extravagant
Hare Krishna devotee 41, settled in a cottage in Wales, which he rented while he
lived in the shed.

6 AELENE FREY, 64, enjoyed life as a housewife, while her sister made her name
as a small-screen secret agent. They were once as close as sisters could be, but
now their relationship is not so absolutely fabulous.

7 NEIL, 70, looks uncannily like his big brother and never shaken or stirred,
has been known to walk the streets of Edinburgh dressed as his sibling's
best-known character. His last work on British TV was a bit part in Taggart.

8 ANDREW, a Scot, works for a French nuclear energy company. But there is no
suggestion that his allpowerful and prudent big brother was anything other than
scrupulous when EDF took over the UK's nuclear power stations.

9 EMINENT solicitor Sarah, specialises in clinical negligence cases, though she
was a tad negligent herself, passing court papers to her government bigwig
sister, who was pictured out and about in her constituency wearing body armour.

10 EDWINA presented a kids' show on TVam, has released records and even appeared
in a film. But she's never been as famous as her sister after she belted out one
word, 'We-e-e-ell' at the age of 15. Probably makes her want to shout.

11 ANDREW, 28, and his younger sister both have criminal convictions, but while
sis made the most of her own personal X factor and went on to girlband fame,
fortune and a footballer husband, he has spent a third of his life behind bars.

12 RONNIE'S big brother sweated and swore his way to being rich and famous.
Ronnie, 40, slid into drug addiction. His brother has tried to help, but Ronnie
was last heard of rotting in an Indonesian jail -- much worse than Hell's
Kitchen.

13 THOUGH older than her glamorous sister, Kate is pretty by any normal
standards. She shuns the spotlight, but moves in glamorous circles as a
screenwriters' agent and doesn't need to hold her dresses together with safety
pins.

14 MILLIONAIRE Wayne, 45, got his fortune using the family surname -- made
famous by his highscoring crisp-eating big brother -- to open a chain of bars.
But he was found guilty of conspiracy to defraud the Inland Revenue.

15 JUST like his dad, 33-year-old Jake, became a film director. His big sister,
meanwhile, became an actress like his mother (not to mention an impossibly
stylish rock star wife and mum to Apple and Moses).

16 UNLIKE her little sister, Savannah, 30, a country-dwelling motherof-two, is
not one for the limelight or members of the uber-rich Getty dynasty. But they
share a passion for fashion and long blonde locks.

17 NEW YORK banker James, 50, has long been the object of his younger brother's
only semi-humorous envy for avoiding the pressures of stardom and, with a family
of his own, plenty of love actually, too.

1. Helen Mirren

2. Rowan Atkinson

3 Victoria Beckham

4. Mick Jagger

5. Elton John

6. Joanna Lumley

7. Sean Connery

8. Gordon Brown

9. Harriet Harman

10. Lulu

11. Cheryl Cole

12. Gordon Ramsay

13. Liz Hurley

14. Gary Lineker

15. Gwyneth Paltrow

16. Sienna Miller

17. Hugh Grant

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

MEPs hit exchange rate jackpot with a £20,000 pay rise

BYLINE: Rebecca Camber

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 601 words


BRITAIN'S army of Euro MPs are to see their pay soar by almost £20,000 under
reforms intended to end the Brussels gravy train.

A deal due to take effect this year will see MEPs' salaries increase by around a
third to £82,000, making them higher paid than Westminster MPs.

Currently the 78 British MEPs are paid £63,291, the same as MPs.

But from July they will be paid in euros which represents a bumper pay rise
given the current strength of the European currency against sterling.

The wage hike at a time when thousands of jobs are being lost has outraged
critics, who accuse MEPs of being out of touch with the grim economic reality
faced by millions.

Under the deal, members of the European Parliament are also exempt from British
tax and National Insurance and instead are charged a lower special EU tax of
between 15 per cent and 17 per cent.

Yesterday, the Treasury assured taxpayers that MEPs will still be charged the
same rate of tax as their constituents, as it plans to levy a top-up tax on
them. When the pay deal was originally agreed by the EU in the Members' Statute
in September 2005 it was meant to overhaul the much-criticised system of lavish
expenses by approving a common salary for all 783 members.

Currently there are huge disparities in the salaries of MEPs from different
countries because pay matches that of MPs in their homelands.

Italians MEPs are the highest paid, pocketing more than £110,000 a year, while
those from Lithuania are paid less than £11,000.

Whilst it was acknowledged that the new deal would offer huge pay rises for MEPs
from the poorest member states, the exchange rate in 2005 was so unfavourable
that British MEPs were looking at a salary cut of more than £7,000 to £59,950.
On September 1, 2005, £1 would buy 1.47 Euros.

But now as the euro has strengthened - yesterday the rate was 1.11 - they stand
to gain a big pay rise, although they will no longer be able to claim a
flat-rate travel allowance which bore no relation to the expenses actually
incurred. The new salary of 7,665 euros a month, which is calculated on the
basis of 38.5 per cent of a European Court judge's salary, will be paid by the
EU and no longer by each member state. But ultimately taxpayers will have to
fund the pay rise through increased EU subsidies.

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: 'Most people
would give their right arm for such a huge pay rise especially now we're in the
middle of a deep recession.

'This bumper pay deal will make MEPs even more out of touch with people than
they already are.

'How can they understand what their constituents are going through when they are
getting such an easy ride, even though Europe's economy is in crisis?'

The statute will come into force after the next elections to the European
Parliament in June and will apply to all newly-elected MEPs. Those who are
re-elected will be able to opt out and continue to receive their current salary
of £63,291.

Last night, MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'I
think MEPs should be paid the same as MPs.

'Given the current exchange rate, it is an outrage that MEPs face a massive pay
increase. Voters will be very angry about this.'

But Chris Davies, a LibDem MEP, said: 'This will replace the unacceptable
arrangement for travel expenses, which may mean that less is paid out of the
public purse.' r.camber@dailymail.co.uk

'Voters will be very angry'

HOW THEY COMPARE ARE

UK MP UK MEP (currently) UK MEP (from July) UK Cabinet Minister Italian MEP
(currently) Lithuanian MEP (currently) £ 63,291 £ 63,291 £ 82,000 £138,000 £
110,000 £10,760 Role Salary

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now French blame us for their migrant camps crisis

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 531  words


BRITAIN is "solely to blame" for illegal immigration from France and should
grant asylum to the thousands of refugees trying to cross the Channel, a senior
French politician has claimed.

In a blistering attack on Britain's open-door immigration policy, former
minister Etienne Pinte accused the Government of double standards by allowing in
thousands of eastern Europeans while barring other immigrants from other parts
of the world.

He said: "It's up to Great Britain to find a dignified and humane solution to a
problem which solely concerns it.

It should, in partnership with the French authorities, bring about concrete and
quick solutions to an intolerable situation." Mr Pinte condemned London for the
"utter misery" in which migrants are forced to live following the closure of the
notorious Red Cross centre at Sangatte, close to the entrance to the Channel
Tunnel near Calais.

And he claimed Britain - not France - was responsible for the refugees' welfare
as they come from former British colonies and only want to settle in the UK.

However, last night Mr Pinte's comments were met with alarm.

Shadow Home Secretary Dominic Grieve said: "Our lack of immigration controls is
an irresistible draw to illegal immigrants who are is preyed on by human
traffickers. The Government must wake up to the sheer misery and suffering being
caused.

"We would establish a dedicated UK Border Force to secure our borders and go
after the perpetrators of human trafficking." UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:
"Monsieur Pinte clearly does not understand the UN convention on refugees but
prefers to pass on the problem to Britain. And he has no understanding of
history as most o f the countries he refers to were not British colonies." In an
open letter to France's Immigration Minister Brice Hortefeux, Mr Pinte, the MP
for Versailles, said Britain should accept all the migrants in northern France
and consider their asylum claims on British soil.

He said: "Why are the British rejecting them while at the same time they're
welcoming thousands o f citizens from eastern Europe and in particular from
Poland?

"They don't want to stay in France. They have a common history with the British.
Most of them speak English.

They often have family members who emigrated to Great Britain at a time when
being part o f the Commonwealth entitled them to do so.

"Why are the British, in spite of international laws and, in particular, the
directives of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, organising
charter . ights aimed at deporting immigrants towards war-torn countries like
Afghanistan." Mr Pinte accused politicians in London and Paris of turning a
blind eye to the numerous makeshift migrant camps that have sprung up across
northern France in recent weeks - highlighted by the Daily Express last month -
and he called on Britain's Ambassador in Paris, Sir Peter Westmacott, to visit
the notorious shanty town outside Calais known as "The Jungle".

Last night the Home Of. ce said migrants must not use the asylum system as a
cover for economic migration. A UK Border Agency spokeswoman said: "If someone
is genuinely . eeing persecution they should claim asylum in the . rst safe
country they reach."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Versailles MP Etienne Pinte

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                  3RD Edition

Keep 'rebel' Clarke out, Cameron warned

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 390 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned against returning Ken Clarke to the Shadow Cabinet
after the former chancellor was revealed to be the most rebellious Conservative
MP.

Since Mr Cameron became Tory leader in 2005, Mr Clarke has voted against the
party whip 33 times, mainly over the EU Treaty which he supports. He easily beat
Bob Spink, who switched to the UK Independence Party last year after voting
against Mr Cameron 23 times.

The findings were seized on by those who oppose Mr Clarke's return to frontline
politics. One shadow minister said he had shown himself to be 'serially
disloyal' and added: 'He has done nothing for the party in the 12 years since he
was chancellor except launch failed leadership bids.'

Despite the internal dissent, it appears Mr Cameron is increasingly leaning
towards ask- ing Mr Clarke to make a comeback. It is thought the Tory leader
believes Mr Clarke could be the 'big beast' to take on the business brief and
counter Labour's Lord Mandelson.

The latest register of MPs' interests reveals Mr Clarke has quietly dropped many
of his outside business interests, fuelling speculation he is preparing for a
comeback. He is no longer a deputy chairman of British American Tobacco, his
most controversial post.

It is believed the recent hardening of the Tory line on joining the single
currency was also triggered by the prospect of a Clarke return. Shadow Foreign
Secretary William Hague has said Britain would 'never' sign up to the euro under
Mr Cameron's leadership. Previously, the commitment had been not to join over
the course of the next Parliament.

Lord Mandelson sought to fuel controversy over Mr Clarke. Sources close to the
Business Secretary said he was particularly keen on the idea of a pro-European
Tory taking a senior post and lending weight to the campaign to get Britain into
the euro.

Sources close to Mr Cameron said a reshuffle was unlikely until sleaze watchdogs
have delivered a verdict on party chairman Caroline Spelman. Her position has
been in doubt over claims that she used a Commons allowance to pay her nanny.

The league table of Tory rebels, drawn up by Professor Philip Cowley of
Nottingham University, has Shipley MP Philip Davies in third place, having voted
against Mr Cameron 18 times. Christopher Chope is on 16 with Philip Hollobone,
Richard Shepherd and Ann Widdecombe all on 14.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Cameron is warned over the return of rebel' Clarke

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned against returning Ken Clarke to the Shadow Cabinet
after the former chancellor was revealed to be the most rebellious Conservative
MP.

Since Mr Cameron became Tory leader in 2005, Mr Clarke has voted against the
party whip 33 times, mainly over the EU Treaty which he supports.

He beat Bob Spink, who left the Tories to join the UK Independence Party last
year, having voted against Mr Cameron 23 times.

The findings were seized on by those who oppose Mr Clarke's return to frontline
politics. One shadow minister said the former chancellor had demonstrated
himself to be 'serially disloyal'.

'He has done nothing for the party in the 12 years since he was chancellor
except launch failed leadership bids,' the shadow minister said.

Last night, sources close to Mr Cameron revealed a reshuffle is unlikely to be
carried out until sleaze watchdogs have delivered a verdict on party chairman
Caroline Spelman.

Her position has been in doubt since it was claimed last year that she used a
Commons allowance to pay her nanny.

Despite the internal dissent, it appears Mr Cameron is increasingly leaning
towards asking Mr Clarke to make a comeback.

It is believed the Tory leader believes Mr Clarke could be the 'big beast' to
take on the business brief to counter Labour's Lord Mandelson. The latest
register of MPs' interests reveals Mr Clarke has quietly dropped many of his
outside business interests, fuelling speculation he is preparing for a comeback.

He is no longer a deputy chairman of British American Tobacco, his most
controversial post.

It is believed the recent hardening of the Tory line on joining the single
currency was also triggered by the prospect of a Clarke return.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague told the Daily Mail at the New Year that
Britain would 'never' sign up to the euro under Mr Cameron's leadership.
Previously, the commitment had been not to join over the course of the next
Parliament.

Yesterday, Lord Mandelson sought to fuel controversy over the mooted appointment
by letting it be known that he would welcome the competition.

Sources close to the Business Secretary said he was particularly keen on the
idea of a pro-European Tory taking a senior post and lending weight to the
campaign to get Britain into the euro.

Yesterday Tory sources claimed a frontbench job was also being considered for
Lord Trimble, the former leader of the Ulster Unionists. Mr Cameron could
appoint him as Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary or Shadow Attorney General, it
is claimed.

The league table of Tory rebels, which was put together by Professor Philip
Cowley of Nottingham University, revealed Shipley MP Philip Davies is third,
having voted against Mr Cameron 18 times, followed by Christopher Chope on 16.
Philip Hollobone, Richard Shepherd and Ann Widdecombe are all on 14.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU WILL GRAB BRITAIN'S GAS;
They have secret power to seize our supplies

SECTION: NEWS ; 1

LENGTH: 633  words


BRITAIN'S vital North Sea oil and gas supplies are to be taken over by Europe
under emergency plans revealed for the "rst time in Brussels yesterday.

EU leaders are demanding control of British energy reserves to prevent power
blackouts that have left millions of eastern Europeans without heat in Arctic
weather due to the Russian gas blockade.

Euro-MPs are calling for the creation of a European gas reserve, made up of
British and Dutch supplies, which member states can tap into in the event of any
future shortage.

The transfer of ownership would be enacted under secret powers written into the
controversial Lisbon Treaty. It gives Europe the legal power to take over
individual states' supplies to "ensure security of energy supply in the Union".

Ultimate control over Britain's vast natural gas and oil "elds - by far the
biggest resource within the EU - will fall to Brussels if the new treaty, which
has already been rati"ed by Britain, is adopted throughout Europe.

Last night, however, there were calls for Britain to stand "rm against the
seizure of our oil and gas. UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Brussels has already
stolen our "sh. Now they want our oil and gas. These are vital resources to
Britain and we demand that the British Government vetoes these proposals. This
shows how vital it is that the UK holds a referendum on our future in the
European Union."

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "EU Commission president Jose
Manuel Barroso is right to say that the EU needs to help eastern Europe with its
energy security. But giving the EU control over our national energy reserves is
totally the wrong way to go about it.

"This is a regretful example of how the renamed EU constitution would give the
EU too much power over our national affairs and why so important a treaty should
be put to the British people to decide in a referendum.

"What we really need is a proper free market in energy in the EU. The EU already
has the power it needs to achieve that."

Syed Kamall, Conservative MEP for London, said: "Conservatives will continue to
resist any moves towards EU common energy resources. The Common Fisheries Policy
has already decimated our " shing industry. An EU common energy resource policy
would do the same to what little is left of our oil reserves."

Russian and Ukrainian of" cials and energy " rm executives were yesterday locked
in crisis talks in Brussels in a bid to break the deadlock over blocked supplies
that has hit power deliveries to 10 EU countries.

Meanwhile, in a closed-door meeting with high-ranking European politicians, Mr
Barroso said the current crisis showed the need for urgency in adopting a common
EU energy policy.

He called for a "mutualisation of energy stocks", the better use of "EU
indigenous energy resources" and said it was vital that member states show
"solidarity" with their struggling partners in eastern Europe.

Mr Barroso added that he would soon have the legal auth ority to take over
control ofenergy reserves under the Lisbon Treaty.

He said the new powers were necessary because requests to national governments
to detail what gas reserves they had available had produced no response.

MEPs also called yesterday for control over Britain's dwindling natural
resources. Austrian Hannes Swoboda and Dutchman Jan Marinus Wiersma said there
was an urgent need for a European gas stockpile.

Mr Swoboda said: "Some countries are not happy with the idea but it is
absolutely necessary."

Mr Wiersma told the Daily Express the idea would involve stockpiling gas from
producer countries such as the UK and the Netherlands to tide over vulnerable
member states in the face o f future crises.

A spokesman for the Department of Energy and Climate Change said: "There's no
proposal or prospect of the EU taking control over Britain's gas supplies."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 7, 2009

Ukip reckons Darling is about to borrow one of its tax policies

LENGTH: 320 words



HIGHLIGHT: UK Independence party thinks the chancellor is on the verge of rasing
the income tax threshold


The UK Independence party is not known for its influence over the Treasury, but
it's just put out a press release welcoming the news that the government may be
adopting one of its tax policies. "Raising the personal allowance to take the
working poor out of the income tax net has been Ukip policy for some years. It's
near insane that we both tax and subsidise the same people, those on low incomes
where the income tax and benefit systems meet," said John Whittaker, its
north-west MEP.

The press release was inspired by a story in the Daily Mirror today saying that
the government may raise the income tax threshold from £6,450 to £10,000. The
paper quotes John McFall, the Labour chair of the Commons Treasury committee, as
saying that the proposal is "in the prime minister's mind". McFall says that a
tax cut on this scale would kick-start the economy because it would put money in
the pockets of people likely to spend it. He's not a member of the government,
of course, but his relations with Gordon Brown are very cordial and the economic
policies he was advocating before the pre-budget report last year weren't far
off those what was eventually announced by Alistair Darling.

But could Brown really raise allowances to £10,000? According to the Treasury,
it costs £530m to raise the tax allowance by £100, which means the Mirror
proposal would cost around £18.5bn. Darling did spend £12.5bn slashing VAT, but
officials point out that was a one-off cut that will be reversed at the end of
the year. If the Treasury were to raise allowances, it would be politically
unacceptable to bring them down again - which means the Exchequer would lose
£18.5bn a year. Even by Brown and Darling's current standards, that seems a bit
lavish.

But the Treasury says it will not announce its tax plans until the budget. Which
means, if Ukip wants to find out whether it really is running UK fiscal policy,
it will just have to wait.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               39 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             January 5, 2009 Monday

FIVE MORE MONTHS OF THIS NONSENSE! WAKE ME UP WHEN IT'S OVER

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1440 words


ELECTION campaigns used to last three weeks. This one seems to have been running
for about two years and there are still another five months to go. Between now
and May, there appears to be no escape from politics. Labour has given up
governing and turned its full attention to trashing the Tories. Call Me Dave is
already beaming from billboards across Britain.

Don't they realise they are in grave danger of boring us all to death? My
reaction to yesterday morning's news bulletins was to crawl back under the
duvet.

Outside of his own press conference, where was the audience for Alistair
Darling's ludicrous denunciation of the Conservatives' alleged spending plans?

Frankly, I'm amazed he dares to show his face in public, given the titanic scale
of the national debt for which he is notionally responsible.

You might think he would be better employed on measures aimed at digging us out
of the 61.5 trillion black hole Labour has created. Instead, he fritters away
his final days in office on puerile party political point-scoring while the
economy goes to hell in a handcart.

The time and effort which must have gone into producing a 150-page 'analysis' of
the Tories' imaginary economic policies is mindboggling.

That's right, one hundred and fifty pages. Just to put it in perspective, that's
almost twice the size of yesterday's Daily Mail.

Where did Darling get the material from? Last time anyone looked, the Tories'
firm promises on tax and spend wouldn't cover a single side of A4.

Who in their right mind does he think is going to read it? And, while he's at
it, perhaps he would like to explain how many highly paid, supposedly impartial
Treasury staff were diverted to fabricating this blatant piece of partisan
political propaganda.

In the coming months, civil servants will find themselves pressganged into
supporting Labour's cause. Gordon Brown will not hesitate to use every lever at
his command to wrong-foot the Conservatives. Party will be put before country at
every possible opportunity.

LABOUR has spent the past 13 years politicising and corrupting what was once the
most honest and admired government administration in the world.

The payroll vote is enormous, which probably explains how the worst Prime
Minister in history still thinks he's in with a shout of re-election.

Since he became Chancellor in 1997, Brown has splurged billions of pounds of
public money creating a vast client state. It has been a cynical exercise in
vote-rigging, pure and simple.

That's why he keeps printing money and promising to spend, spend, spend. Brown
couldn't care less if the country is on Skid Row. He long since ceased even
pretending to govern in the national

interest and is content to insult our intelligence from now until election day.

Come the day of reckoning he will be gone and the Tories will have to clear up
his mess.

That's if they have the stomach. It is still unclear whether the Conservatives
can summon the courage to grasp the nettle.

Cameron's New Year press conference was devoted to prattling on about
ring-fencing spending on maternity wards, as if that is the most burning issue
facing Britain.

Brown's crude 'Labour investment versus Tory cuts' mantra is as infantile as it
is disingenuous. But it appears to have the Tories running scared of their own
shadows, which is why they are pledging to spend money they know full well the
country simply can't afford.

Dave's entire strategy has been focused on convincing voters that the Tories are
no longer the 'nasty' party, so he is reluctant to spell out the savage spending
cuts which will be necessary if the economy is ever to recover.

He seems to think that we will warm to him the more we see of him, hence the
cult of personality billboard blitz. The danger is we simply become sick of the
sight of him.

For what it's worth, my view is that most people have already decided how they
are going to vote and nothing that happens between now and election day will
make the slightest difference.

My money is still on a slim Conservative majority. The electorate has decided,
without much enthusiasm, that it's Dave's turn. We don't need another five
months of squabbling to convince us. Three weeks is more than long enough.

Wake me up when it's all over.

richard.littlejohn@dailymail.co.uk

THE NAME'S CHOUDHARY ... RAM JAM CHOUDHARY

I FELL about laughing when I saw Ram Jam Choudhary on Sky News justifying his
plans for a Muslim march through Wootton Bassett in the name of British 'freedom
and democracy'.

This is a man who heads an organisation dedicated to destroying freedom and
democracy, not just in Britain but around the world.

Remember those 'Free Speech Go To Hell' and 'Behead All Those Who Insult Islam'
banners carried by Ram Jam and his disciples on the anti-war march in Trafalgar
Square?

What astonishes me is that we are expected to pay him to troll round Britain
preaching holy war. On what grounds does he receive unemployment and welfare
benefits, which allow him to live in a 6350,000 house in North London?

He is 42 years old, apparently fit and healthy, and a trained lawyer. Even in
these difficult times, he ought to be able to find a job. There may not be a lot
of call for a fulltime jihadist, even in Haringey, but surely a little light
conveyancing shouldn't be beyond him. Maybe the Wicked Witch could sub-contract
him a bit of yuman rites work. If all else fails, he could always get a job as a
security guard at the Home Office. They don't seem fussy, judging by the number
of illegal immigrants they employ.

Some people ask why he's still at large, given that he spends most of his time
stirring up hatred. His legal training tends to keep him just the right side of
the incitement laws.

To be honest, I've always assumed that Ram Jam is an MI5 double agent, recruited
by the Funnies while he was still at university, where he was known as 'Andy'
and was partial to birds, booze and the odd spliff.

If you were looking for someone to discredit the cause of militant Islam, you
couldn't make him up.

HAWAII WITH THE FAIRIES!

FURTHER confirmation that the Prime Minister is away with the fairies came when
he announced that having saved the world from economic collapse, he was now
going to save us from Yemen by closing our embassy there.

He said he was setting up a joint international task force, which he would lead,
to combat Alky Ada activity in the region.

Although he claimed he had the full support of Barack Obama, the White House
said they knew nothing about it. The President has spent the past fortnight
playing golf in Hawaii and hasn't spoken to Brown.

Flash Gordon also said Britain would be going 'further than any other country in
the world' in bringing in extra security at airports.

Why? The Detroit bomber boarded in Nigeria and passed through Amsterdam.

How long before we all have to strip naked and swallow a barium meal before we
go through the scanners at Heathrow.

When I wrote last week that it was only a matter of time before passengers would
have to submit to a colonoscopy at the airport, I was joking.

At this rate, it'll be official Labour policy by Friday.

AND OVER IN THE BROWNSHIRT CORNER ...

A PRESS release arrives from Frank Maloney, the boxing promoter and UKIP
candidate for Barking, East London.

He is challenging BNP leader Nick Griffin, who is also standing in Barking, to a
boxing match.

Frank fought 69 times as an amateur and Griffin was a boxing blue at Cambridge.

Settling things in the ring sounds much more fun than an actual election. You
never know, it could catch on.

Imagine Gordon Brown trying to land his big, clunking fist on Call Me Dave,
while the Tory leader stings like a butterfly and floats like a bee.

Why stop there? I'd pay good money to see a mud-wrestling match between Harriet
Harman and Teresa May, or George Osborne and Peter Mandelson trying to scratch
each other's eyes out in a Greek taverna.

Seconds away. . .

BRITAIN'S obesity epidemic is worse than we'd thought. Undertakers have revealed
that they have had to resort to hiring cranes to bury the dead because some
coffins are too heavy to be handled by pall-bearers. Standard-sized graves and
hearses are no longer big enough to accommodate XXL coffins, and funeral
directors say they are increasingly having to use lorries to transport bodies.

Some require two plots in cemeteries and local authorities are imposing
surcharges.

In The Long Good Friday, after a body is taken away in an ice-cream van, Bob
Hoskins's gangster character Harold Shand remarks: 'Not very dignified, is it,
going out like a raspberry ripple.' Not very dignified, either, being winched
into your grave like a sack of spuds which has fallen off the back of a lorry.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday
                                  SC1 Edition

FORGOTTEN PM;
He helped create the Welfare State, reformed schools and brought hope to the
poor. Now, at last, his home city of Glasgow has honoured the...

BYLINE: Jim McBeth

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1160 words


AS Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman lay dying from what was effectively a broken
heart, the nation's poor, sick and suffering were about to lose their greatest
champion.

The first leader of Government to assume the title of Prime Minister had already
lost his beloved wife and, debilitated by illness, was breathing his last in 10
Downing Street - an address he dismissed as a 'rotten old barracks'.

The last words of the politician, known as 'the bravest man in politics' were:
'This is not the end of me!' But it was, effectively. The Glasgow-born Liberal
statesman was consigned to oblivion.

After his death, the rise of socialism subsumed his political contribution, with
Labourites laying claim eventually to every piece of enlightened legislation
that improved the lives of ordinary folk.

Long before the reforms of modern times, the draper's son, whose name is now
largely forgotten, created a welfare state with sick pay and pensions, laid the
groundwork for free school meals, introduced compulsory secondary education and
initiated a system of juvenile probation.

He sponsored Acts for establishing a Court of Criminal Appeal and defending
trade unions from an employer's right to sue them for damage caused by
individual members during strike action. But legislation to improve the lives of
what he called the 'twelve-million Britons underfed and on the verge of hunger'
was not his only contribution.

Conscious of the need for a strong Britain in a volatile Europe, he supported
the creation of a volunteer territorial army, which was good enough to fight
alongside regular troops by the time of the First World War.

On the world stage, the Scot, who was known as 'CB', was the architect of an
entente with Russia and championed the unpopular issue of Irish Home Rule.

However, the only memorials to Sir Henry, who died 100 years ago, are small
busts in Westminster Abbey and his Alma mater, the High School of Glasgow.

Now, however, he has finally been commemorated in his native city - with a
memorial plaque on the former family home at 129 Bath Street. It is an honour
described by one of his descendants as 'long overdue'.

It was unveiled by the inheritors of CB's vision - the former Liberal Democrat
leaders Lord David Steel and Charles Kennedy MP.

LORD STEEL praised Sir Henry as an 'overlooked radical' whose 1906 landslide
victory paved the way for a succession of reforming governments.

He said: 'He led the way for the longest period of successful radical government
ever.' CB was the 'first' Prime Minister.

Until his day, the leader of Government was known as the First Lord of the
Treasury. But five days after coming to power, he took the title adopted by
every Premier since.

Sir Henry was one of only seven Scottish-born Prime Ministers, a number that
includes Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

Elected to Parliament in 1868 as MP for Stirling Burghs, CB resigned due to
ill-health on April 3, 1908, and died weeks later.

His wife, Sarah, daughter of Major-General Sir Charles Bruce of Kingairloch,
Argyll, died two years before - after 46 happy years of marriage. Throughout
CB's years of service, she was his counsellor, supporting her naturally modest
husband.

They escaped the London limelight as often as they could, to their country home
at Belmont Castle, Meigle, Perthshire. Intelligent, cultured and shrewd, Lady
Campbell-Bannerman mastered the political arts and was associated with his
reforms.

He was never a great orator but was a magnificent political operator,
surrounding himself with a pool of talented politicians, three of whom - Herbert
Asquith, David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill - went on to become Prime
Minister.

CB was born Henry Campbell in 1836. The Bannerman was added in 1871 under the
terms of his maternal uncle's will, as a condition of inheriting an estate in
Kent. He was the youngest of six children born to Sir James Campbell, a lord
provost of Glasgow in the 1840s.

Educated at the High School of Glasgow, he went to Glasgow University and
Cambridge, where he studied classics.

He returned home to join the family drapery business, J& W Campbell & Co of
Ingram Street.

Sir Henry became a partner in 1860, the year he married. The couple set up home
in the West End of the city and with the support of his wife he achieved his
ambition to become an MP.

He served the Stirling Burghs constituency for 40 years. His solid capability
led to his appointment as Financial Secretary to the War Office in November
1871, a position he held until 1874 and again from 1880 to 1882.

After serving as Parliamentary and Financial Secretary to the Admiralty from
1882 to 1884, he entered Gladstone's second Cabinet in 1884 as Chief Secretary
for Ireland. In Gladstone's third (1886) and fourth (1892-1894) Cabinets - and
Rosebery's Government of 1894-1895 - he served as Secretary of State for War.

CB was rewarded with a knighthood in 1898 and succeeded Sir William Vernon
Harcourt as leader of the Liberals in the Commons.

His greatest challenge was to achieve the apparently impossible task of uniting
a divided party that had been defeated in the 1900 election. Within a few years,
he quelled the warring factions and made the party electable.

Referring to the new plaque in Glasgow, CB's great-great-great nephew, David
Campbell Bannerman, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'I'm
delighted to hear of the honour. It is long overdue.

'He was respected on all sides of the House and his Government was very
reformist and brought in a Welfare State with pensions.

IT introduced compulsory secondary education and ushered in the Haldane Army
reforms, which included the formation of a territorial army. I don't know why he
has been overlooked.

'His great achievement was to turn the Liberal Party from a rabble and make it
electable.' In spite of Sir Henry's sterling work, he would not be in charge for
long. After his wife died, his health deteriorated and he was forced to resign
in April 1908, to be succeeded by his Chancellor, Herbert Asquith. CB remained
in residence at Downing Street until his death.

Sir Henry was buried in the churchyard of Meigle Parish Church. The tributes to
him reached beyond political rhetoric.

In an uncharacteristically emotional speech, his successor, Asquith, told the
House: 'He was not ashamed, even on the verge of old age, to see visions and to
dream dreams.

'He met both good and evil fortune with the same unclouded brow, the same
unruffled temper, the same unshakeable confidence in the justice and
righteousness of his cause.' Lloyd George added: 'I have never met a great
public figure who so completely won the attachment and affection of the men who
came into contact with him. He was not merely admired and respected; he was
absolutely loved.

'The people of the country, especially the unfortunate, have lost the best
friend they have ever had in the high place of the land. He was a truly great
man - a great head and a great heart.

'He was the bravest man I ever met in politics.'

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

50million invited to Europe

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 313  words


AN EU job centre for migrants seeking work in Europe has been opened secretly in
the West African state of Cape Verde.

The project is the second phase of a Brussels tax-funded plan to invite more
than 50 million African workers into Britain and other members of the 27-nation
EU bloc.

The advice centre, based in the island nation's poverty-stricken capital Praia,
follows a similar job centre opened in the desert African state of Mali in
October.

The project is part of the EU's controversial plan to help Africans . nd work
legally in Europe.

The centre will provide details of job opportunities in EU states, including
Britain, and provide training and support for potential migrants. It is being
heralded as a "pilot scheme" by EU of. cials for other job centres across Africa
and Eastern Europe.

But last night the timing of the scheme to invite a new wave of migrant workers
to Europe was called into question as tens of thousands fear for their jobs
across Britain and other EU states in the gloomy economic climate.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage asked: "What the devil are we doing opening up job
centres in Africa when we have 400,000 projected to lose their jobs in the UK in
the next six months?" Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "As
people all over Britain and Europe face redundancy and unemployment as the
recession bites, it is ludicrous that the EU is frittering away taxpayers' money
on such inappropriate schemes." The project is part of EU Commissioner Louis
Michel's master plan for the "mobility" of workers between African states and
Europe.

The initiative has the support of European leaders who believe that opening up
labour markers in Britain and other member states will help to stem the growing
tide of illegal immigration from Africa.

Last night the Home Office insisted that the new EU centre, due to open this
month, would not affect Britain.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                  3RD Edition

3 out of 4 Britons 'don't want the euro'

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 368 words


THREE out of four Britons remain opposed to joining the euro, a poll has
revealed.

Around 71 per cent said they are against ditching the pound to sign up to the
European single currency, which was introduced ten years ago.

The ICM survey for BBC Radio 4's World At One programme found just 23 per cent
would say yes to the currency if it were put to a referendum.

The research comes at a time when the value of sterling has plummeted against
the euro.

And yesterday Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague told the Daily Mail that
the Tories would never take Britain into the euro.

He said: 'Giving up our currency would mean we would lose a vital tool for
trying to run the British economy in the interests of the people of Britain -
and that means an unacceptable loss of the independence of this country.'
Despite the euro climbing to a record high of 98p against the pound this week,
the survey also revealed the rise has done little to improve the currency's
image in the eyes of ordinary voters.

Some 69 per cent said it made no difference to whether Britain should join the
single currency, while just 15 per cent said it made them more keen on signing
up. The pound's troubles have prompted speculation that now is the time for the
UK to adopt the euro.

Last month, European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso said the 'people
who matter' in British politics were contemplating the move.

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson has admitted that the Government still wants
the UK into the euro, but he insisted: 'It's not for now.' Europe Minister
Caroline Flint said Labour was concentrating on the problems surrounding 'first
order' issues, such as housing. 'The issue is financial stability and packages
for growth,' she added.

But Dr John Whittaker, UK Independence Party MEP for the North-West and an
economist at Lancaster University, said: 'It might be the euro's tenth birthday
but we would be crazy to join the party.

'The credit crunch has exposed its real weakness. While all economies are
suffering, some eurozone countries are now in an impossible position.

What these countries need is lower interest rates and devaluation but, stuck in
the euro, there is nothing they can do.' Peter Oborne - Page 17

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Most Britons 'still oppose the euro'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words


THREE out of four Britons remain opposed to joining the euro, a poll has
revealed.

Around 71 per cent said they are against ditching the pound to sign up to the
European single currency, which was introduced ten years ago.

The ICM survey for BBC Radio 4's World At One programme found just 23 per cent
would say yes to the currency if it were put to a referendum.

The research comes at a time when the value of sterling has plummeted against
the euro. And yesterday Shadow Foreign

Secretary William Hague told the Daily Mail that the Tories would never take
Britain into the euro.

He said: 'Giving up our currency would mean we would lose a vital tool for
trying to run the British economy in the interests of the people of Britain -
and that means an unacceptable loss of the independence of this country.'
Despite the euro climbing to a record high of 98p against the pound this week,
the survey also revealed the rise has done little to improve the currency's
image in the eyes of ordinary voters.

Some 69 per cent said it made no difference to whether Britain should join the
single currency, while 15 per cent said it made them more keen on signing up.

Europe Minister Caroline Flint said Labour was concentrating on the problems
surrounding 'first order' issues, such as housing. 'The issue is financial
stability and packages for growth,' she added.

But Dr John Whittaker, UK Independence Party MEP for the North-West and an
economist at Lancaster University, said: 'It might be the euro's 10th birthday
but we would be crazy to join the party.

'The credit crunch has exposed its real weakness. While all economies are
suffering, some eurozone countries are now in an impossible position.

'What these countries need is lower interest rates and devaluation but, stuck in
the euro, there is nothing they can do.'

Peter Oborne - Page 17

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Tories hold all the cards this year

BYLINE: Michael Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 984 words


Will 2009 be the year in which David Cameron finally "seals the deal" with the
British electorate? After Gordon Brown's remarkable recovery in the polls
towards the end of 2008, Tory nerves became decidedly jittery, especially during
the autumn financial and economic crises. Opinion polls saw stratospheric
ratings for the Tories during the summer melt away - for Labour to end the year
between just four and seven points adrift in most polls in December.

But of all the party leaders to be optimistic about the New Year, Mr Cameron
still has most to smile about. Not that the state of a party's fortunes at the
beginning of a year is necessarily much of a guide as to where they will be 12
months later. My own predictions in this space a year ago anticipated a disaster
for the economy to the extent that I rashly speculated that the Chancellor,
Alastair Darling, would no longer be in his post by the year's end. Yet the
worse the nation's finances deteriorated, the more secure Mr Darling's position
became.

The Prime Minister's Churchillian appeal to the nation that he is a latter day
wartime leader of the nation in crisis has, however, only a limited appeal once
the Tories can - as they surely will - establish in the minds of voters that Mr
Brown caused much of the trouble in the first place.

The Tories lost the initial skirmishes when Mr Brown successfully blamed all
economic woes on the pesky Americans. They fell into his trap by initially
accepting the "worldwide" nature of the crisis by stupidly signing up to the
"let's all pull together" theory of politics, only to suffer from Mr Brown's
portrayal of them as the "do nothing party" once they realised the error of
their approach.

For a few voters, however, the pain of the depression - this is more than a
recession - has still to be felt. Indeed, for those still in work benefiting
from falling tracker mortgages and lower food and fuel prices, there will
continue to be a "feel-good" factor as their standard of living increases.

But if most economic predictions are right - a huge "but" after the hopeless
forecasts of a year ago - the pain of unemployment will outweigh any minority
"feel-good" factor. Since few, under the age of 40, will have known anything
like the 1970s, 1980s or 1990s recessions, this will be the first economic
downturn where a sizeable proportion of the population has any collective memory
of bad economic times. And even those baby boomers like myself, so used to
regular booms and busts in previous decades, will find the economic onslaught
that is about to engulf us beyond anything we have previously experienced.

Against such a background it is hard to see how Mr Cameron can fail to make
significant progress during the coming year. Two crucial mid-term electoral
tests give him huge opportunities to consolidate the gains he made in London and
local councils last year. For the first time since 1993, county council
elections will be held in England NOT on the same day as the general election.

In 1997, 2001 and 2005 these local elections coincided with Tony Blair's three
victories on general election turnouts - saving hundreds of Labour-held county
council seats. This year those seats will be defended on low turnouts ranging
from 35 to 40 per cent, resulting in an overwhelming clean sweep for the Tories.

Similarly, on the same day in June, the European elections will also be held.
Again, the Tories are poised for massive gains thanks to the implosion of the UK
Independence Party that clocked up over 2.7 million votes in 2004 which
translated into 12 seats in the European Parliament. These should easily fall to
the Tories, making for dramatic headlines about the extent of the Tory revival.
In the end, what gives an opposition its greatest traction is not its position
in the opinion polls but its ability to win real votes at the ballot box.

Last May's local election triumphs gave Mr Cameron's party the springboard for
their subsequent victory in Crewe and Nantwich. Both the local election results
and this parliamentary by-election similarly caused the panic among Labour MPs
who could translate ward losses in their own constituencies into defeats for
themselves.

Of course Labour strategists may just persuade the Prime Minister to cut and run
early in May. The G20 summit, which he will be hosting in London, on 2 April,
with all the attendant ballyhoo surrounding his photo opportunity with the new
US President Obama, lends itself to an ideal backdrop for launching a campaign
immediately after he has read out the communique announcing that he has
successfully saved the world.

But Mr Brown has proved that while he may be reckless, he is no risk-taker.
Certainly the pre-Budget report was designed to allow the option of an early
election to still be an option during 2009 but the initial appeal of the £12bn
blown on a temporary VAT reduction seems now to be waning.

The Tories are successfully stumbling into a coherent economic alternative based
on the premise that borrowing billions to solve a borrowing crisis will not
work. History is on their side, as any observer reading the recently released
national archive papers relating to the dying days of the Callaghan government
30 years ago will readily testify.

Even Callaghan eventually presided over an actual cut of 5 per cent in public
expenditure, making it plausible for the hawks in the Tory Party to articulate
the inevitability - as well as the efficacy - of real terms cuts in the future.

Speculation continues about an imminent Tory re-shuffle to match the drama of
Labour's recall of Peter Mandelson. The name of Kenneth Clarke continues to
excite many Tories but, in the end, time and events rather than personalities
will prove Mr Cameron's greatest assets.

The sands of time are running out for Mr Brown and, if he is still Prime
Minister this time next year, a Cameron victory in 2010 is assured.

mrbrown@talktalk.net

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
