
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour and the extreme Right wing

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: COLUMNS; 11

LENGTH: 289  words


IN the days of the Cold War the term "Right-wing" simply meant "opposed to
Leftwing" and described a legitimate political position. Now "Left-wing" is
still usable but "Right-wing" has become a slur, as in tending towards the BNP.

In fact the reverse has always been the case and we are watching it proved.
Labour propa ganda, heavily used by the BBC, has sought to denounce the
Eurosceptic position as "Right- wing", which fails to explain why there is a
very large EU-sceptic wing inside Old Labour. The truth is that those Tories
moving their vote away from the Conservative Party are likely to be regimental
blazer-clad over-50s fed up with the betrayal of the country they once fought
for. And they go off and vote UKIP.

As the BNP win of a council seat at Sevenoaks proves (it came in Labour's safest
ward), recruits to the horrible BNP come almost entirely from the ranks of the
young, white working- class males and hitherto Labour voters. Margaret Hodge,
Labour MP for Dagenham and Barking, knows full well that this is the threat to
her.

If New Labour would even glance at history it would recognise that the extreme
"isms" of the last century - communism, fascism and Nazism - all sprang from
socialism. In times of economic hardship it is Labour that is the recruiting
tool for the BNP, not the Tories.

It was the same 75 years ago when Oswald Mosley led the British Union of
Fascists. A few bigoted Tory dinosaurs supported him but the rank and file
poured in from unemployed Labour ranks. It will be the same again if
"Right-wing" is ceasing to be a meaningful phrase at all because it does not
indicate which Right-wing:

Labour-opposing legitimate conservatism or neo-fascism recruited straight from
the ranks of Young Labour.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 27, 2009

Jack Straw to take on Labour MPs over tax exiles

LENGTH: 895 words



HIGHLIGHT: Justice secretary will refuse to ban wealthy non-domiciles from
bankrolling parties


Jack Straw, the justice secretary, is to poised to take on nearly half of the
parliamentary Labour party on Monday by refusing to ban wealthy tax exiles who
bankroll Labour and the Conservatives from giving any more donations to
political parties.

An amendment tabled by Labour backbencher Gordon Prentice, the MP for Pendle,
for debate on Monday when the political parties and elections bill reaches its
report stage and third reading in the House of Commons, will outlaw all
donations from non-domiciles.

The Speaker is likely to call the amendment, as it has the backing of almost a
third of all MPs in the House of Commons. Some 217 Labour, Liberal Democrat,
Plaid Cymru and Scottish Nationalist MPs are backing the move.

Prentice has run a long campaign against Lord Ashcroft, the deputy chairman of
the Conservative party, to find out whether he kept his pledge to move his tax
affairs on shore when he got his life peerage. Ashcroft has always refused to
say whether he is now a British taxpayer. The Tories have taken donations from
Lord Laidlaw, who lives in Monaco, and is a non-dom.

Prominent Labour donors who are non-doms include the steel magnate Lakshmi
Mittal and industrialist Lord Paul. The Egyptian-born private equity boss Sir
Ron Cohen, who is very close to Gordon Brown, is also thought to be a non-dom.

Prentice has been told by Straw that his amendment to block the ban would not
work, and it is too complicated to change the law to outlaw all money coming in
from tax exiles. It is understood that Straw is planning to write to all Labour
MPs explaining this and requesting them to withdraw their names from the
amendment.

Prentice said today: "People who do not pay UK taxes should not be bankrolling
political parties. It is surreal that Jack Straw is to urge Labour MPs not to
vote for an amendment which would allow wealthy donors to flood constituencies
with cash and buy the next election."

A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice said: "We are considering Gordon
Prentice's amendment." Pressed to explain why Straw had told Prentice he wanted
to persuade MPs who had signed up to his amendment to withdraw the spokeswoman
said: "I cannot say any more than the amendment is being considered."

So far 217 have signed up. They are: Labour

Kelvin Hopkins, Paul Flynn, David Taylor, David Drew, Lynne Jones, Jim Devine,
Harry Cohen, Andrew Dismore, Graham Stringer, Eric Martlew, Tony Wright (Great
Yarmouth), Michael Clapham, NickAinger, Des Turner, Brian Donohue, Neil Gerrard,
Brian Jenkins, Ian Davidson, Marsha Singh, Eric Illsley, Paul Farrelly, Colin
Burgon, Lindsay Hoyle, Bill Olner, Katy Clark, Alan Simpson, Graham Allen, Julie
Morgan, Mike Gapes, Roger Berry, Michael Meacher, Doug Naysmith, Peter Soulsby,
Colin Challen, Keith Hill, Dennis Skinner, Ken Purchase, Roger Godsiff, David
Chaytor, John Austin, Mark Lazarowicz, Mike Connarty, Chris Mullin, Frank Field,
Peter Kilfoyle, Jeremy Corbyn, Mike Wood, Dianne Abbott, Martin Caton, Ann
Cryer, Terry Rooney, David Heyes, Nick Palmer, David Hamilton, Eric Joyce,
Phyllis Starkey, John Mann, Ann Clwyd, Dennis McShane, Virendra Sharma, John
McDonnell, Alan Meale, Tony Wright (Cannock Chase), Jim Cousins, Andrew
Mackinlay, Paul Truswell, Andrew Slaughter, Martin Linton, David Kidney, Eddie
O'Hara, Jim Sheridan, Gordon Banks, Gisela Stuart, Greg Pope, Jon Cruddas, Mark
Fisher, Ian Gibson, Charlotte Atkins, Tom Levitt, Martyn Jones, Chris Ruane,
Parmjit Dhanda, Stephen Pound, Christine McCafferty, Frank Dobson, John Battle,
Bob Wareing, David Winnick, Howard Stoate, Derek Wyatt, Albert Owen, Shona
McIsaac, Bob Laxton, Mary Creagh, Madelaine Moon, John Robertson, Linda Gilroy,
Rob Marris, Joan Ryan, Linda Riorden, Angela C Smith, Ashok Kumar, Dave
Anderson, Rob Flello, John Heppell, Andrew Gwynne, Janet Dean, Glenda Jackson,
Dai Harvard, Elliot Morley, Ian Stewart, Tony Lloyd, Bill Etherington, Sharon
Hodgson, Ann Begg, Jim Dowd, Clare Short, Emily Thornbury, Ben Chapman, David
Borrow, Natasha Engel, Tom Harris, Derek Twigg, David Howarth, David Lepper, Sir
Gerald Kaufman, Kerry McCarthy, David Clelland, Fiona Mactaggart, John Grogan,
Karen Buck, Joan Humble, Clive Betts, David Cairns, Jim Dobbin, Peter Hain,
Louise Ellman, Hywel Francis, Nigel Griffiths, Andrew Miller, Sandra Osborne,
Kali Mountford, Lindsay Roy, Gwyn Prosser, David Wright, Mohammed Sarwar, David
Crausby, Fabian Hamilton, Stephen Hepburn, Jimmy Hood, Joan Walley, Betty
Williams, Rudi Vis, Alan Keen, Gordon Marsden, Denis Murphy, Andy Reed, Don
Touhig, Mark Todd, Paddy Tipping, Andy Love, Dari Taylor, John Cummings, Michael
Jabez Foster, Jim McGovern.

Liberal Democrat

Norman Baker, Tom Brake, Paul Burstow, Lorely Burt, Vincent Cable, Alistair
Carmichael, Edward Davey, Lynne Featherstone, Don Foster, Sandra Gidley, Evan
Harris, Nick Harvey, John Hemming, Paul Holmes, Simon Hughes, Chris Huhne, Mark
Hunter, Susan Kramer, David Laws, Michael Moore, Greg Mulholland, Alan Reid,
Willie Rennie, Dan Rogerson, Bob Russell, Andrew Stunell, Jo Swinson, Matthew
Taylor, John Thurso, Steve Webb, Roger Williams, Jenny Willott, Richard
Younger-Ross, Paul Rowen, Mike Hancock, David Heath, Adrian Sanders, Phil
Willis, Sarah Teather, Tim Farron.

Independent Labour

Dai Davies

SNP

Angus MacNeill

Mike Weir

John Mason

Pete Wishart

Plaid Cymru

Adam Price

Elfyn Llwyd

Hywel Williams

Ukip

Bob Spink

Independent

Richard Taylor

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Rise of BNP's power should worry us all

SECTION: LETTERS; 33

LENGTH: 107  words


ONE of the more unsavoury outcomes of the current economic downturn and
resulting unemployment could be the rise of the BNP.

The party recently celebrated a council by-election win in Kent, taking 41 per
cent of the vote, the first time the BNP has won an election in a southern
English county. This also shows it is broadening its appeal beyond its
traditional northern heartlands, and with the collapse of UKIP could also see
the party winning seats at the forthcoming European Parliamentary elections.

We cannot be complacent over the threat posed by the BNP, and those across the
political spectrum must unite in beating them.

Alex Orr, Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 23, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

A man of many parts;
And another thing ...

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 124 words


There is no such thing as a typical FA chief executive, given the wide range of
individuals who have filled that unenviable post in recent years, but

Ian Watmore, the latest appointment, promises to be even more difficult to
characterise than his predecessors.

On the one hand, he is a captain of industry, on the other, a part of the
Whitehall establishment. On the one hand, a self-styled IT nerd, on the other, a
devotee of punk rock. As for his politics, who is to say? For all his
association with Lord Triesman, the FA independent chairman and a former member
of the Communist Party, Watmore's golf partners include Nigel Farage, MEP,
leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party. This promises to be interesting
- one way or the other..

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 23, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

A man of many parts;
another thing ...

SECTION: THE GAME; SPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 124 words


There is no such thing as a typical FA chief executive, given the wide range of
individuals who have filled that unenviable post in recent years, but

Ian Watmore, the latest appointment, promises to be even more difficult to
characterise than his predecessors.

On the one hand, he is a captain of industry, on the other, a part of the
Whitehall establishment. On the one hand, a self-styled IT nerd, on the other, a
devotee of punk rock. As for his politics, who is to say? For all his
association with Lord Triesman, the FA independent chairman and a former member
of the Communist Party, Watmore's golf partners include Nigel Farage, MEP,
leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party. This promises to be interesting
- one way or the other..

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 22, 2009

News: Don't play BNP's game, warns peer: Government told it must defend foreign
workers

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words


POLITICIANS MUST start defending foreign workers to prevent extremist parties
gaining sway during the recession, Britain's new European commissioner says
today, in what will be seen as a veiled warning to the British government not to
whip up nationalist sentiment.

Lady Ashton, who was until last autumn leader of the Lords under Gordon Brown,
acknowledged in an interview with the Observer that there was a risk of
significant advances in this spring's European elections for extremists in the
present economic climate. She said mainstream politicians must be careful not to
fan the flames: "In any kind of economic downturn, it is incumbent on us all to
be putting across exactly the same message about the value and importance of
having. . . diversity in communities; about the value and benefit of people from
different countries coming and creating wealth.

"There are reasons we have to support that and not to get trapped into what the
extremists would like, which would be to take their simplistic approach and fit
it into a very complicated situation. So I hope that people will just reject as
nonsense the idea that the solution lies in some kind of xenophobic attitude to
people who live, work, study or travel in our country, because they bring the
economy far more than they take out.

"The extremists have always relied on economic downturns. . . as a way of
recruiting people to what can be seen as a simple message, but actually is just
hatred."

Her intervention comes amid warnings that the British National party could
snatch a seat in the European parliament in June's elections, when Labour MEPs
are privately predicting losses of up to three or four seats as voters respond
angrily to job losses. The BNP took a council seat in Swanley, Kent, last week
from Labour in a shock victory, suggesting it has begun to penetrate the
southern English counties. It could profit in June both from a collapsing Labour
vote in working-class areas hit by unemployment and the implosion of the
hard-right Ukip, which took 16% of the vote at the last EU election.

Brown has been accused of fanning tensions by talking of "British jobs for
British workers", a slogan promptly adopted by the BNP, despite the UK's
obligation as an EU member to allow EU citizens free access to Britain to work.

The home secretary is expected to announce next week a reduction in permits for
non-EU citizens to work in the UK. Brown's approach has caused private distaste
in Brussels, but Ashton insisted it had been taken out of context and her former
boss had been misun derstood. But in a warning to leaders tempted to pull up the
drawbridge in a bid to protect jobs, she said Britain had traditionally
benefited from bringing in workers to fill skill shortages, from Caribbean
immigrants in the 1950s to Polish plumbers in the last decade.

Governing parties across Europe are braced for a backlash in June because of the
economic crisis, and Labour MPs are concerned that in the UK the campaign for
the local and European elections - being overseen by Harriet Harman, the deputy
leader - needs a tougher strategy to combat attempts by the BNP to capitalise on
the new nationalistic sentiment.

Yesterday the former cabinet minister Peter Hain warned that rising unemployment
was a "heaven-made" scenario for extremists.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 22, 2009

News: Don't play BNP's game, warns peer

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 315 words


POLITICIANS MUST start defending foreign workers to prevent extremist parties
gaining sway during the recession, Britain's new European commissioner says
today, in what will be seen as a veiled warning to the government not to whip up
nationalist sentiment.

Lady Ashton, who was until last autumn leader of the Lords under Gordon Brown,
said in an interview with the Observer that there was a risk of significant
advances in this spring's European elections for extremists in the present
economic climate. She said mainstream politicians must be careful not to fan the
flames: "In any kind of downturn, it is incumbent on us all to put across the
same message about the value and importance of diversity in communities; about
the value and benefit of people from different countries coming and creating
wealth.

"I hope that people will just reject as nonsense the idea that the solution lies
in some kind of xenophobic attitude to people who live, work, study or travel in
our country, because they bring the economy far more than they take out."

Her intervention comes amid warnings that the British National party could
snatch a seat in the European parliament in June's elections. The BNP took a
council seat from Labour in Swanley, Kent, last week in a shock victory. It
could profit in June both from a collapsing Labour vote in working-class areas
hit by unemployment and the implosion of the hard-right Ukip, which took 16% of
the vote at the last EU election.

Brown has been accused of fanning tensions by talking of "British jobs for
British workers", despite the UK's obligation as an EU member to allow EU
citizens free access to Britain to work.

The home secretary Jacqui Smith is expected to announce next week a reduction in
permits for non-EU citizens to work in the UK. Brown's approach has caused
private distaste in Brussels, but Ashton insisted it had been taken out of
context.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 22, 2009

Comment: Do the Tories know what they would do with power?: David Cameron will
reap the whirlwind if the Conservatives are not properly prepared to take over
government

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1700 words


Happy days are here again for the Tories. The grimmer the economy, the more they
exchange furtive grins. Their smiles are necessarily sly. They wouldn't want to
get caught looking pleased with themselves, but they are bound to be. Their
Labour opponents are doing an excellent impression of a headless chicken as the
recession eats away at support for the government. By my rough estimation, a
third of Labour MPs still think they may yet make a competitive fight of the
next election, a third of them reckon they are heading for an inevitable defeat
and the final third are absolutely certain that they are doomed and are busy
looking for lifeboats. Labour MPs in marginal seats are making discreet
inquiries about employment opportunities circa May 2010. Members of the cabinet
are polishing their curricula vitae to make them look attractive to the unions
and activists who will select the next Labour leader of the opposition.

Good news for Captain Cameron and his crew, who have now ascended to cruising
altitude in the opinion polls. All the polling organisations agree that the
Tories enjoy a double-digit lead and some even award a big enough advantage to
put the Conservatives into power with a landslide. It is the hardening
conviction in Westminster and Whitehall that they have seen the future and it is
Tory.

And yet there's still something missing. The Tories are not behaving like a
government in waiting and nor are they being scrutinised as if they were one.
One simple explanation is that they have lost a hat trick of elections. Three
back-to-back defeats caution their leader to take nothing for granted about an
election which is still more than a year away. The champagne stays on ice until
David Cameron is on his way to the Palace to kiss hands with the Queen. In this
respect, he is reminiscent of Tony Blair before the 1997 election. In the lovely
metaphor of Roy Jenkins, he approached power as cautiously as a man carrying a
precious Ming vase across a polished floor.

The recent past also suggests to Mr Cameron that he should step gingerly. He
enjoyed similarly stratospheric poll leads last summer when the cabinet was
having a collective nervous breakdown about what to do with the prime minister.
Gordon Brown then managed to pull off a remarkable comeback from the financial
crisis. Can a dead cat bounce twice? It seems improbable, but it is wise not to
bet your house, assuming you still have one, against any scenario at a time of
such volatility.

Many of the voters are in an aggressively anti-establishment, anti-political
mood, distrusting anything promised to them by anyone. And no wonder. This helps
to explain the recent lift in support for the Lib Dems and may foreshadow
successes in the June elections for the likes of Ukip and the BNP. The current
polls are a referendum on the recession. They express vast dissatisfaction with
Labour more than they indicate any swell of enthusiasm for being governed by the
Conservatives. "They are losing more than we are winning," Mr Cameron has been
heard to confide to colleagues.

He can easily become prime minister nevertheless. There does not have to be a
great national passion for the Conservatives in order for them to defeat Labour.
Oppositions have often taken office not on their own merits, but because voters
are simply determined to boot out the government. The problem for David Cameron
with winning by default is that it will sow the seeds of a whirlwind once he is
in power. His time in Number 10 will be brutish and is more likely to be short
if he takes power at a time of severe economic distress without a solid mandate
and a proper programme.

The Conservatives are going through the traditional motions of preparing for
government. Gordon Brown has been forced to retreat from his initial and
churlish refusal to allow members of the shadow cabinet to meet the senior civil
servants with whom they may be working in 15 months. This exercise is more
substantial than it was before the elections of 2001 and 2005. "The civil
servants knew we weren't going to win and we knew that they knew we weren't
going to win," says one key member of the shadow cabinet. "You'd take tea and
biscuits with the permanent secretary and he'd be very nice, but nothing
important was discussed. It is more serious this time."

A s we reveal in the Observer today, the Conservatives have recruited Andrew
Turnbull, Gus O'Donnell's predecessor as cabinet secretary, to advise them.
Civil servants report that they are having grown-up conversations with some
would-be Tory secretaries of state who are giving them a fairly good idea of
what they want to do with power. In other areas, Whitehall is underwhelmed by
the calibre of potential Tory ministers and has little to go on but press
releases. Power famously corrupts. So, in a different way, does a protracted
spell in opposition. In the words of one of the most astute members of the
shadow cabinet: "It gets you into the habit of spending every day thinking about
what you are going to say and not what you are going to do." Opposition favours
talkers over doers. Of David Cameron's top team, only Ken Clarke and William
Hague have ever sat round the cabinet table. Mr Hague was in the
less-than-mighty position of Welsh secretary.

Mr Clarke is the only one among them old enough to remember what it is like
coming out of opposition into government. The last time was three decades ago,
in 1979, during another economic crisis. I have in front of me Margaret
Thatcher's first manifesto, a fascinating artefact. It is quite light on detail.
Privatisation, which became one of the most mould-breaking features of her
premiership, is barely mentioned. But the central themes of Thatcherism are all
there, as is the signature policy of selling council homes to their tenants. In
1979, no one had much doubt what Margaret Thatcher was about.

David Cameron keeps a photo of the lady in his Commons office, but his
intentions are much fuzzier. That's partly because he is a less ideologically
driven creature. The first time I interviewed him as Tory leader, I invited him
to define Cameronism. He shuddered at the suggestion that he would want an ism
after his name. I once asked a member of the shadow cabinet whether his leader
was "intellectually curious". Came the reply: "Interesting question. No, not
really. David is clever. He's interested in ideas which help with positioning,
but he's not interested in ideas for their own sake."

There is a tendency to flirt with the latest intellectual fashion and then drop
it as soon as it ceases to be chic. For a while, the big idea was that "general
well-being" was more important than gross domestic product. That was an early
Cameron construct hurriedly abandoned when the economic skies clouded over. Then
there was the politics of "nudge" which was briefly in Tory vogue until it was
given the shove. The latest thing is civic communitarianism. Also known,
oxymoronically, as "red Toryism". In his early days as leader, David Cameron
called himself a "compassionate conservative" until the association with George
W Bush became unhelpful. That was supplanted by "liberal conservatism", which
gave way in turn to "progressive conservatism". It is still unclear what the
difference between them is supposed to be and what any of them would add up to
as a programme for government.

One of the most interesting figures on the Tory frontbench is Michael Gove, the
shadow education secretary, who has come closest to developing an ambitious,
detailed and potentially transformative policy. He wants to introduce the
Swedish model of education, in which local authority schools face competition
from state-funded, non-profit-making but independent schools. This is what Tony
Blair wanted to do, but couldn't because his party wouldn't let him. The Tory
focus in education is on empowering parents. Their health policy, by contrast,
seems to be governed by an entirely different philosophy which is orientated
towards the producers. Whenever the government tries to get better service from
doctors, Andrew Lansley, the Tories' health spokesman, is to be found manning
the barricades of opposition to reform, waving an angry stethoscope with the
British Medical Association.

T he Tories are exploiting the missteps of the government, but their own
response to the economic crisis has been an unconfident and unconvincing
sequence of zigs and zags. They were against a ban on short-selling until they
were in favour of it. They would not seek "cheap applause" by bashing the City
and then they were all for "a day of reckoning" for the bankers. David Cameron
has lately gone into rhetorical rages about "markets without morality" and
promised "capitalism with a conscience" while not revealing how he plans to
achieve that.

Whoever finds themselves in Number 10 after the next election is going to
inherit the mother of all deficits. Even if the recession is over or coming to
an end, it is impossible to see how the next government will avoid being forced
to both put up taxes and cut spending. The Conservatives will certainly have to
do so, just as Margaret Thatcher did in her first term, if they are going to be
true to their fiscal conservatism. Tories who can do maths know this. Philip
Hammond, the shadow chief Treasury secretary, recently issued an order to all
his colleagues that they were not to put their signatures to early day motions -
the parliamentary equivalent of graffiti - if they could be taken to imply a
spending commitment.

Ken Clarke goes further and says the government should be cutting spending now,
though he is breezily unspecific about where the blade would fall. The Tories
are naturally nervous of being frank with the voters. But if they aren't, and
choose instead to try to win office on an opaque or vacuous prospectus, they
flirt with great danger: winning dishonestly and then facing the quick wrath of
the electorate.

By the end of Tony Blair's first term, it was his greatest regret that he had
expended so much energy on securing power that he had devoted far too little
thought to what he wanted to do with it. Keen student that he is of New Labour,
David Cameron risks repeating the same mistake.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 22, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

In the nap of luxury;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 219  words


RESPECT MP George Galloway proved Orwell's adage that some are more equal than
others last week by electing to sleep in a luxury Winnebago motor home while
others on his aid convoy to Palestine slummed it in their cars.

Gorgeous George explained that he needed his beauty sleep to ensure he was at
his best for media performances. Sadly, the Winnebago has broken down and is now
"on bricks somewhere in France", leaving Galloway to rough it with the others.
Life's just not fair.

MPs provoked a backlash last year after voting themselves the right to jump the
queue at Westminster's subsidised bars and restaurants. Most remain too
shame-faced to use the perk but not Labour MP Mark Fisher, who was spotted
jumping a queue of three people to order his lunch last week. Fisher is an Old
Etonian, you see, and knows his place.

NOT for the first time UKIP leader Nigel Farage struck a discordant note in the
European Parliament last week.

He explains: "They began a session with the EU anthem, so I started singing Rule
Britannia. Very loudly."

SHADOW Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan spent half-term week tending to an ailing
pet cockerel with the intriguing name Boris. "He's not named after anyone in
particular, " she insists, "but he is magnifi cent.

Although, to be honest, when I bought him I thought he was a chicken."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOD CONS: A luxury Winnebago mobile home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday

BNP surge feared after election win

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314  words


FEARS that voters are turning to extremist parties after losing faith in the
Government's ability to protect British jobs were growing yesterday after the
BNP took a Labour seat in a district council election.

The far-Right party's candidate Paul Golding triumphed in a by-election in
Sevenoaks, Kent. His victory in Swanley St Mary's, described by the local Tory
MP, Michael Fallon, as "Labour's safest ward'', prompted warnings that the BNP
could make significant gains in the local and European elections in June.

Figures indicate that a decade of high immigration has seen foreign workers take
a large share of new jobs despite Gordon Brown's "British jobs for British
workers'' promise.

Earlier this month strikers protested at oil refineries after contracts were
awarded to foreign companies who brought in their own workforce.

John Cruddas, the Labour MP, said; "With Ukip faltering, few local elections and
the economy hurtling into recession, we will need everyone who opposes the BNP's
message of hate to play a part.''

Meanwhile, Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, is preparing to announce that the
number of work permits being handed to foreigners will be cut. The Daily
Telegraph can disclose that the new points-based system will be used to "raise
the bar'' to curb the number of highly skilled migrants coming to Britain.

Employers will also be forced to advertise vacancies in the Jobcentre Plus
network before filling them with migrant labour under a series of measures to be
announced.

Miss Smith is expected to make the announcements this weekend ahead of more
damaging immigration figures, which are due on Tuesday.

Last month it was reported that the number of work permits hit a record high of
more than 151,000 last year, while figures released this week showed the number
of foreign workers had almost doubled under Labour, with 3.8 million now working
in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Victory warns of BNP's geographical spread;
Analysis

BYLINE: Ed Howker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words


The BNP'S victory in Swanley is a Klaxon blast alerting Britain to the growing
geographical spread of the far right.

But it is the north of the country which represents the greatest danger of
handing the BNP real political power. Although the party gained 11 seats in the
borough of Barking and Dagenham in 2006 and has made significant advances in
Havering and Bexley - beating Labour and polling around 20 per cent of the
popular vote - the party's success in the South-east remains fractured within
London and very limited outside of it.

But that is not the case in the north. Owing to the proportional representation
system used in this June's European elections, the BNP requires between 7 and 9
per cent of the vote to win a seat for the national leader, Nick Griffin. And
recently, the party has been deploying its limited resources around Cumbria in
an attempt to broaden its base from its traditional Lancashire strongholds of
Burnley, Blackburn and Oldham.

While the BNP platform, designed to use racial minorities as scapegoats for
social problems, is disliked by most, voters from social groups C2, D and E
repeatedly inform pollsters they feel lied to about immigration - an attitude
the party can prey on to good effect in areas with large minority populations.
In the West Midlands and Yorkshire, for example, party support averaged 14.1 and
14.5 per cent of the vote respectively in the wards it contested in last year's
local elections.

Typically, the party combines an active presence on the streets with campaigns
which conflate local "wedge" issues - about which there is identifiable
opposition - with the BNP's agenda concerning race and immigration. Last
November, the party distributed leaflets claiming, inaccurately, immigrants were
responsible for the development of greenfield sites in South Lakeland, Cumbria.
There are some signs this strategy, used across the region, is working. Examine
the recent Kells and Sandwith ward by-election result in Whitehaven: having
never fielded a candidate before, the party missed beating the Labour incumbent
by 16 votes.

There are two reasons for believing these results will be improved upon later
this year. Firstly, the electoral system translates disparate regional votes
into a significant regional turnout. Secondly, the collapse of the United
Kingdom Independence Party offers a chance for the BNP to sweep up support from
people who use secondary elections to register a protest vote. Although
politically dissimilar, the two parties are closely linked in the minds of
right-wing voters.

If the BNP wins a seat in the European Parliament, it may result in a paradigm
shift in its fortunes, giving it access to up to £250,000 in salaries, resources
and office costs. But while the national party organisation remains riven with
disagreement, it still seems unlikely it could launch a professional national
platform.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

'I'm not racist, but you have to start looking after your own';
The arrival of black and Asian families from London has made Swanley fertile
territory for the BNP, says Jerome Taylor

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 981 words


Paul Golding was in a sunny mood yesterday. The 27-year-old unemployed lorry
driver got dressed in his sharpest suit, donned an astonishingly bright British
National Party rosette and took a tour around the streets of Swanley that he now
represents as a councillor. Walking through the ward of St Mary's, the town's
newest representative was relishing the limelight brought by his surprise
victory in Thursday's council by-election.

Not even a passing motorist rolling down his window to shout the word "wanker"
put him off his stride. "You know why we won this area?" he said. "Because
people round here are sick to death of the mainstream parties. Labour have held
this area for 40 years but they treat the people like second-class citizens.
This is not about racism - we never campaigned on race issues here - it is just
about putting British people first."

Gary Hillier, 56, was one of several locals in Swanley's high street who took
the time to congratulate their new councillor on his victory. "I swear on my
life this is the first time I've ever voted," he said. "I'm not racist by a long
shot, but we've got to start looking out for our own. People wait for years on
the housing list round here, but as soon as a foreigner comes along they get
sent straight to the front of the queue."

Perhaps not surprisingly, both Mr Golding and the BNP leadership were keen to
portray their victory in Swanley this week as proof that their party can offer
an alternative to mainstream politics without having to resort to race.

Andy McBride, the BNP's regional director for the South-east, said he believed
voters in in Swanley were drawn to the party because of the economic situation.
"We have been predicting this recession for years and people called us
scaremongers," he added. "Now they are starting to see we were right and they
trust us."

But regardless of the official line, it was all too clear that race, and fear of
immigrants, played a key part in ensuring that the predominantly white,
working-class voters of Swanley backed a party that, to its critics, is a byword
for racism. The suburb of St Mary's lies on the western edge of Swanley, a
former rail town of traditionally Labour voters, just across the M25 from the
Tory-leaning commutercopia of Sevenoaks.

Swanley's estates are formed of rows of 1930s semi-detached houses, populated by
families who either hail from the area or moved out of the bomb-damaged East End
of London after the Second World War. The area even has a large community of
settled traveller families, who clearly feel they have been there long enough to
vote for a party which, in other areas of Britain, often campaigns on an
anti-traveller platform. But in recent years the predominantly white ethnic
make-up of the town has begun to change as black and Asian Londoners also move
out of the city towards the suburbs.

"Two years ago there were very few black faces in the congregation," said a
church official yesterday, speaking on condition on anonymity. "Now there is a
much more ethnically mixed crowd. Personally I think that's a fantastic thing
but it's no secret that some people are upset about that." For Lesley Dyball,
the former Labour councillor whose resignation last November sparked this
election, that underlying current of racial tension was all too clear to see
when locals headed to the polling booth just off St. Mary's Road.

The 52 year-old claimed that a group of people who walked out of the building,
holding what she believed to be a BNP leaflet, were laughing and shouting
"blacks out".

Lynn Taylor, who was out shopping with her two children, made no attempt to hide
the fact that the Government's apparently "soft" treatment of immigrants was
what made her vote for Mr Golding. "I was on the list for six years before I got
a house and yet the council will happily give accommodation to foreigners all
the time," she said. "They look at people like us as something on the sole of
their shoes. People like Mr Golding will stick up for people like me."

Voter apathy might also have played a large part in securing the BNP their first
victory in the South. Turnout for the elections was just under 31 per cent,
allowing the BNP to concentrate on winning over those who might be more easily
attracted to the party's policies without having to worry about a mass
mobilisation against them. Many locals said BNP volunteers began canvassing the
area long before the Labour and Tory flyers came through their doors. If the
same thing happens later this year during the European elections, which the BNP
are mobilising heavily for because proportional representation favours parties
that benefit from a low turnout, then many fear there will almost certainly be a
BNP MEP come the summer.

All of which is little consolation for 53-year-old John Leon, one of Swanley's
black residents that BNP voters show a dislike for. He has spent most of his
life in Greenwich but moved out to Swanley because he wanted to get away from
the higher crime rates in the capital. Yesterday he woke up in a town that had
voted BNP. "I'm absolutely shocked and very unhappy about it," he said. "This
town is a really welcoming place, I never even thought there were any racial
tensions and I've never had any problems. It make you wonder where else they
might win."

The turning tide

Recent results

* Sevenoaks District - Swanley St Mary's:

BNP 408

Lab 332

Con 247

(May 2007 - Two seats Lab 462, 420, C 208, 197, Ukip 165)

* North West Leicestershire District - Thringstone:

Con 520

BNP 465

Lib Dem 76

Lab 59 (May 2007 - Two seats Lab 634, 564, C 501, 376, Lib Dem 355, 331).

* Lewisham London Borough - Downham: (Two seats)

Lib Dem 1,067

Lab 635

Con 632

BNP 287

Green 63 (May 2006 - 3 seats Lib Dem 1,130, 1,117, 1,106, Lab 590, 586, 554, C
403, 330, 326, Green 153, 149, 137).

* Harrogate Borough - Bilton:

Lib Dem 902

Con 673

BNP 164

Lab 51 (May 2007 - Lib Dem 974, C 877, BNP 122).

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Alarm over rise of BNP;
Take action to stop far-right party winning seats in European elections, Brown
is urged BNP breaks new ground with election success

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words


THE BRITISH National Party is on course to win its first seats in the European
Parliament this year, Gordon Brown has been warned. Senior Labour figures have
told the Prime Minister they believe two BNP candidates are likely to be sent to
Brussels under the proportional representation system of voting, The Independent
has learnt.

They fear Labour's campaign for the European election in June has been too slow
to get off the ground and its lack of preparation is allowing the BNP to win
over disaffected Labour voters.

Yesterday, the far-right party was celebrating a surprise win in a council
by-election in Swanley, Kent, where the BNP candidate took 41 per cent of the
vote after Labour's support collapsed.

It is the first time the BNP has won an election in a southern English county,
and shows it is broadening its appeal beyond its traditional northern
heartlands. The party also polled more than 28 per cent of the vote this week in
a council by-election in Thringstone, Leicestershire - a seat it had never
contested before.

Mr Brown has been told the BNP has a strong chance of fielding successful
candidates in the North-west of England and Yorkshire and the Humber. A senior
Labour source told The Independent yesterday: "We have got to get our act
together - and very quickly. No one is focusing on the European elections; no
one knows who is in charge."

Last night, the former minister Peter Hain warned that every political party was
guilty of "complacency" over the threat posed by the BNP.

He said: "Everybody across the political spectrum - especially the Labour Party
- has to prioritise beating the BNP with a vigorous strategy based on grassroots
politics to win local trust and also making sure we deliver on affordable
housing and deliver on jobs.

"There is very fertile territory for [the BNP] now. When people are losing their
jobs and there is an economic downturn ... there's ideal territory for them, it
is just heaven-made for them."

Labour officials believe the BNP is well placed to attract support from the UK
Independence Party, which won 16 per cent of the vote at the last European
election, but has since imploded. They are also worried that disillusionment
with the Government among traditional Labour voters will tempt them to support
the BNP or not turn out at all.

The UK is divided into 12 regions for the European ballot, with voters asked to
back parties rather than candidates. In practice, a party must win between 8 and
13 per cent of the total votes cast to have at least one representative picked
from a list of nominees, depending on the size of the region.

In the North-west of England, where the BNP leader, Nick Griffin, is its main
candidate, the party has to add only two or three percentage points to the 6.4
per cent of the vote it secured in 2004.

In Yorkshire and Humber, where the BNP polled 8 per cent last time, it probably
has to increase its support by three or four points.

Jon Cruddas, the Labour MP for Dagenham, who campaigns against the far-right
group, refused to speculate on whether the BNP could capture any seats in the
European Parliament. But he acknowledged that conditions look better for the BNP
now than they did five years ago, when it last came close to winning a seat. Mr
Cruddas said: "Five years ago, Ukip did very well and five years ago we had a
benign economic environment. Now there is a global crisis. Everything else being
equal, it's going to be tricky."

The BNP's ability to spring surprises in previous no-go areas was underlined on
Thursday during the ballot in Swanley St Mary's, which used to be a rare,
Labour-leaning ward on the Tory-controlled Sevenoaks District Council. The BNP's
Paul Golding captured it with a majority of 76 over Labour. The Tories finished
third.

Mr Golding said after his victory: "Most of these foreigners come here to
exploit our country - not embrace it; they don't follow our rules, they don't
follow our customs.

"I'm going to put British people first on the housing queue. I've had lots of
complaints that foreigners and asylum-seekers are getting ahead of them."

A Labour activist, Lesley Dyball, claimed that a group of people who walked out
of the building where the polling station was sited, holding what she believed
to be a BNP leaflet, were laughing and shouting "blacks out". The BNP's victory
at Swanley follows its near-miss last month in an election in the neighbouring
London Borough of Bexley. Simon Darby, the deputy party leader, said it would
mount a vigorous contest in the European elections, adding: "We are in place for
10 seats and we've worked out if we can secure around 8 per cent of the vote we
will take one of them."

The BNP threat will be highlighted today at a London rally organised by the
group Unite Against Fascism (UAF). Speakers include Mr Hain, former London mayor
Ken Livingstone and Ennio Odino, a Holocaust survivor.

The UAF acting secretary, Weyman Bennett, said the country was at a "crucial
moment". He added: "Hitler used the economic crisis of the 1930s to gain a
hearing for racists and murderous policies."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 40

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EUROPRATS SAY BRIT JOBS FIGHT IS RACIST

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 400 words


A GROUP of MPs were last night branded unpatriotic for labelling the Daily
Star's "British jobs for British workers" campaign as racist.

Union leaders are fighting to save thousands of UK jobs going to a flood of
foreign labourers.

The dispute has sparked wildcat strikes at refineries and power stations and the
Star is right behind British workers with our poster campaign.

But five Euro politicians claim the battle against migrants is "racist and
xenophobic".

The group, including Labour's South West MEP Glyn Ford, 59, and the party's
North East MEP Stephen Hughes, 56, have launched a petition calling for a fairer
deal for the incoming foreign workers.

Their anti-British stance has sparked the same fury as Business Secretary Lord
Mandelson, 55, who labelled the wildcat strikers as xenophobic.

The MEPs say EU laws are being abused by firms so they can ship in migrants on
low pay.

They claim to support the striking British workers, while at the same time are
slating the strikes.

A row has now erupted between the MEPs and the UK Independence Party.

UKIP spokesman Gawain Towler wrote to them saying they opposed the EU employment
laws precisely because it predicted firms would swamp the UK with cheap
foreigners.

He said the protesters at the Lindsey oil refinery, Lincs, were not racist, but
angry at Brussels bureaucrats for ruining their livelihoods.

In his letter, he told the group of MEPs: "If you had spoken to those who were
striking at Lindsey and elsewhere there was very little xenophobia.

"The workers on strike and protesting were well aware the problem was the law -
not people trying to work and feed themselves and their family.

"If there was any attempt to tie these legitimate concerns with racism and
xenophobia it was the Government and opposition parties who, to delegitimise the
protest, accused the protesters of those things." Then, referring to the issue
of racism and xenophobia, he added: "If that is what you wish to call me then so
be it.

"If trying to save my livelihood is xenophobic, then OK I am a xenophobe." One
of the MEPs, the Green Party's South East representative Caroline Lucas, claimed
"racist and xenophobic parties" have hijacked their fight for migrants who they
say are being undermined with poor pay and conditions.

Ms Lucas said: "It is vital that we resist the attempts of those on the far
right to use the current dispute to stir up racism and xenophobia."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BACKING: Protesters and, inset, Glyn Ford

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Fury as plan for EU army wins Labour backing

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 21

LENGTH: 386  words


LABOUR was condemned yesterday for backing a Brussels blueprint plan for the
creation of a European Union army.

The controversial project was voted through the European Parliament by 482 to
111 with the help of 19 Labour MEPs. UKIP and the Tories opposed the plan.

The report, sponsored by German MEP Karl von Wogau, has backing from Paris and
Berlin.

It stated that "a common defence policy in Europe requires an integrated
European Armed Force".

It called for "further development of co-operation between national armed forces
so that they become increasingly synchronised. This process and the armed forces
should be given the name SAFE - Synchronised Armed Forces Europe".

The report will not directly trigger the creation of a new EU fighting force but
critics have warned it would fuel calls for a European army. Shadow Defence
Secretary Dr Liam Fox said: "The fact that 16 Labour MEPs voted in support of
this report is outrageous.

"The idea of the creation of a so-called SAFE or Euro Army is not only
irresponsible but also nonsensical."

Conservative MEP Geoffrey Van Orden, the Tories' European defence spokesman,
warned that British ministers were "in denial" and "sleepwalking" towards the
creation of a European army.

Former soldier Mr Van Orden who served at Nato HQ in the 1990s, said: "British
ministers say there's nothing going on but the French are writing the script and
they are determined to create this European capability. For 50 years they have
wanted to remove American influence from European security.

"People may say 'it's not going to happen' but we'll find that a few years later
it's what does happen."

A spokesman for Labour's MEPs insisted they did not support having a European
army but had backed what was a "wide-ranging" report on European security
policy.

A Foreign Office spokesman insisted: "There will be no European army. Nato
remains the cornerstone of European defence."

A Ministry of Defence spokesman added: "We have just one set of military forces
and they don't belong to either Nato or the EU. They belong to us and we choose
the most appropriate organisation to do the job."

Britain worked with EU partners on missions such as antipiracy operations off
Somalia but any UK contribution was "strictly voluntary and we have a veto over
the launch of any EU-led operation" he added.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour is blasted for backing an EU army

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 353  words


LABOUR was condemned yesterday for backing a Brussels blueprint for the creation
of a European Union army.

The controversial project was voted through the European Parliament by 482 to
111 with the help of 19 Labour MEPs.

UKIP and the Tories opposed the plan.

The report, sponsored by German MEP Karl von Wogau, has backing from Paris and
Berlin. It stated that "a common defence policy in Europe requires an integrated
European Armed Force''.

It called for "further development of co-operation between national armed forces
so that they become increasingly synchronised. This process and the armed forces
should be given the name SAFE - Synchronised Armed Forces Europe".

The report will not directly trigger the creation of a new EU fighting force but
critics have warned it would fuel calls for a European army. Shadow Defence
Secretary Dr Liam Fox said: "The fact that 16 Labour MEPs voted in support of
this report is outrageous. The idea of the creation of a so-called SAFE or Euro
army is not only irresponsible on behalf of Eurocrats but also nonsensical.''
Conservative MEP Geoffrey Van Orden, the party's European defence spokesman,
warned that British ministers were "in denial'' and "sleepwalking'' towards the
creation of a European army.

Former soldier Mr Van Orden, who served at Nato HQ in the 1990s, said: "British
ministers say there's nothing going on but the French are writing the script and
they are determined to create this European capability. For 50 years they have
wanted to remove American influence from European security.'' A spokesman for
Labour's MEPs insisted they did not support a European Army but had backed a
"wide-ranging'' report on European security policy. A Foreign Office spokesman
said: "There will be no European army. Nato remains the cornerstone of European
defence.

This is spelt out in the Lisbon Treaty.'' Last year, when French enthusiasm for
a EU defence force sparked speculation that the Royal Navy would have to
surrender an aircraft carrier to Brussels as part of a permanent European navy,
Dr Fox said the plan made "a mockery of centuries of British naval tradition".

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 20, 2009

BNP gains first council seat in south-east England

LENGTH: 344 words



HIGHLIGHT: Win in Sevenoaks is far-right party's first victory in south east
outside London


The British National party has gained its first council seat in south-east
England outside London, taking a traditional Labour seat in Sevenoaks, Kent.

The surprising win saw BNP candidate Paul Golding beat Labour's Mike Hogg in
Swanley St Mary's, the first time the far-right party has campaigned in that
ward.

Swanley St Mary's has been a traditional Labour seat in a
Conservative-controlled district. The BNP gained 408 votes to Labour's 332,
while the Tories earned 247.

Speaking to the BNP website, Golding said the win was "outstanding" and had
"implications" for the rest of the south east and the upcoming European
elections.

The BNP made advances in local government byelections across the UK yesterday.
Although they failed to win in Thringstone, North West Leicestershire, the party
polled more than 28% in third place. Labour successfully defended the seat.

They also failed to win at Bilton, Harrogate Borough, North Yorkshire, where
Liberal Democrats held onto the seat, but did come third with 9% of the votes.
Labour polled just 3% of votes, taking fourth place.

In Downham, Lewisham, south London, a double contest saw the Lib Dems hold both
seats, while Labour came second with 24% of the votes. The BNP polled 11% in
fourth place.

Last night's results follow a near miss for the far-right party in January. The
BNP were just nine votes short of taking a Tory ward in a Bexley council
byelection. However, Welling, where the byelection was held, is where the party
used to have their headquarters.

Labour MP Jon Cruddas, who campaigns against the BNP in his London constituency,
says the far-right party does pose a threat in the EU elections. Writing in the
Guardian last month, he said: "The BNP poses a threat in six Euro regions, with
as little as 7.5% required in the North West, where the party leader, Nick
Griffin, is standing. With Ukip faltering, few local elections and the economy
hurtling into recession, we will need everyone who opposes the BNP's message of
hate to play a part. A BNP victory will change the political landscape in
Britain."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 15, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Rich lavish most love on first child

BYLINE: Jonathan Leake; Chris Gourlay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 829 words


WEALTHY parents are making their first-born the focus of family ambition, giving
them a disproportionate share of time, care and attention, according to
research.Younger siblings, by contrast, are being held back in their lives by a
relative lack of attention.

The findings show affluent modern couples are aping the upper-class tradition of
primogeniture.

Although poor families also show some extra favour to the oldest child, this
practice is far more pronounced among those who are richer - despite there being
more resources to share with younger offspring.

"Traditionally, aristocratic families tended to give the first heir more
wealth," said David Lawson, a behavioural ecologist with the human evolutionary
ecology group at University College London, who led the research.

"That impulse may be culturally ingrained. Richer families have more time and
money to afford surplus benefits for their kids like a good diet, helping with
homework and time to read to them at night. These benefits are diluted sharply
as more children are born."

Other academic studies have assumed that, while parents generally favour their
firstborn, this is less pronounced among the rich because they have enough
resources to spread around.

In a paper published last week, Lawson and Professor Ruth Mace from UCL examined
how much time and attention 14,000 British families gave each of their children.
They analysed the effect on offspring by the number of siblings and their
parents' wealth and found a clear "later-born disadvantage".

There is evidence from elsewhere to back up the idea that the extra care and
attention may lead to greater success in later life for older children.

Analysis has found they are, for example, over-represented among senior
executives and surgeons.

Bill Clinton, the former US president, has often been contrasted with Roger, his
younger brother, who was jailed for cocaine dealing.

Tamara Mellon, founder of Jimmy Choo shoes, is the oldest of three children, and
had particular attention lavished on her by her entrepreneur father, Tommy
Yeardye.

In the royal family and, since Norman times, the aristocracy, the system of
primogeniture has formalised the practice of favouring the oldest child.

This has enabled families to pass power and wealth down the generations by
bequeathing estates intact to the oldest son rather than, as in much of Europe,
breaking them up by distributing them evenly among siblings.

For the latest study, Lawson was given access to one of the world's biggest
databases on family dynamics, created by the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents
and Children (Alspac) which enrolled more than 14,000 women who gave birth
between April 1991 and December 1992 in the former county of Avon.

Alspac has been following the progress of them and their children since, with
studies of the families and their medical records up to three times a year.

It has now built up one of the world's best databases on families and parenting.

Describing the habits of richer families, they said: "Each additional sibling
markedly reduces the amount of care that both mother and father give to each
child.

"We find clear evidence of a later-born disadvantage with the presence of older
siblings linked to a larger deficit in parental care. Strong birth order effects
on IQ and health outcomes have also been demonstrated in modern populations
consistent with a laterborn disadvantage."

Why, though, should similar effects be weaker in poorer families? The
researchers suggest this is because there are so few resources it is harder to
give one child much more time, love or possessions than another.

Other researchers have found other effects of birth order. Later-born siblings
have been found to be shorter than earlier ones and a Norwegian study found that
the eldest child has an IQ averaging three points higher than the second.

Younger ones can shine

Older siblings may start off with all the advantages, but this does not stop
some of their younger brothers and sisters from surpassing them n Rowan
Atkinson, above, the star of Mr Bean and Blackadder, has two older brothers.
Rodney, the oldest, stood unsuccessfully for leadership of the UK Independence
party in 2000 n Dame Judi Dench went into acting inspired by her older brother,
Jeffery, a respected character actor.

"I might try doing something, like going into the theatre, and then she comes
along and goes not one, not two, but three better," he has said. Another older
brother is a doctor n Being the fifth of six children did not hold back Charles
Darwin. His older brother Erasmus shared an interest in plants with the author
of On the Origin of Species but "retired" from studying at the age of 26 because
his father thought him too frail for a career n Bill Gates, below, the Microsoft
billionaire and philanthropist, is the middle of three children. His older
sister, Kristi Gates Blake, is a former accountant who lives quietly in
Washington state. He also has a younger sister, Libby Gates Armintrout

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mellon was doted on by her father, inset with the actress Diana Dors, a
former girlfriend
RICHARD SAKER/CORBIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

BANNED DUTCH MP FLIES IN... AND IS SENT STRAIGHT HOME AGAIN

BYLINE: BY REBECCA CAMBER

LENGTH: 828 words


A FAR-RIGHT Dutch MP was turned back at Heathrow yesterday as he tried to defy a
ban on entering Britain.

Geert Wilders was barred earlier this week after Home Secretary Jacqui Smith
learned that he was planning a trip to show his controversial film which links
the Koran to terrorism.

Mr Wilders, 45, was classed as someone considered likely to incite hatred and
his visit a threat to 'community harmony and therefore public security'.

He was seized by border guards after his aircraft touched down, and questioned
for more than an hour before flying back to the Netherlands.

As he left he vowed to keep trying to come to Britain and revealed that he is
going to Italy and the U.S. in the coming weeks to screen his film, which
sparked violent protests around the Muslim world last year.

He said: 'I am not a terrorist, but I am being treated like one. I did not come
here for attention, I came to make a point about freedom of speech.

'Even if you do not like me, if you do not agree with my views, in the name of
freedom of speech I should be allowed to hold a debate with others on those
views. This just shows the Islamification of the UK.'

Mr Wilders accused the Government of cowardice and compared its decision to the
policies of Neville Chamberlain, whose appeasement of Adolf Hitler in the run-up
to the Second World War allowed the Nazis to invade neighbouring countries. Mr
Wilders said: 'This is the beginning of the end of freedom of speech, of
democracy in Britain.

'No other government has stopped me going anywhere. This is weak, it is
cowardice and it is a blow for freedom of speech.

'It is sad that the ghost of Chamberlain still resides in the British Government
instead of the Churchill way of acting.

'I am a democratically-elected representative of the third-biggest elected party
in the Netherlands, yet I am being treated like a crazy extremist.' Mr Wilders
had been invited by UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson to show his film
entitled Fitna ñ Arabic for 'strife' ñ and hold a question and answer session in
Parliament yesterday.

He has urged the Dutch government to ban the Koran and warned of a 'tsunami' of
Islam swamping the Netherlands.

His 17-minute documentary features verses from the Koran ñ which it brands a
'fascist book' ñ alongside images of the 9/11 and 7/7 terrorist attacks.

It equates Islam's holy text with violence and ends with a call to Muslims to
remove 'hatepreaching' verses.

It emerged last night that Mr Wilders, who is facing prosecution in the
Netherlands for incitement to hatred and discrimination, visited Britain in
December and met with no opposition. But on that occasion he did not show his
film.

Yesterday he was allowed to board a flight to Heathrow from Amsterdam after the
airline bmi admitted it had no legal powers to refuse a passenger with a ticket.

Flanked by two Dutch police officers, Mr Wilders boarded the flight with a broad
smile and gave an impromptu press conference to scores of British and Dutch
reporters on the plane.

At Heathrow, Mr Wilders was met by a UK Border Agency representative who led him
away for a ' discussion' which lasted just over an hour before he was ordered to
board the next flight home.

His removal provoked an angry response from Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime
Verhagen, who said the Netherlands would press for a reversal of the ban.

But Foreign Secretary David Miliband said the Home Secretary was following the
law.

He said Mr Wilders' work was a 'hate-filled film designed to stir up religious
and racial hatred and is contrary to our laws'.

Mr Miliband admitted, however, that he had not seen the film.

Downing Street said: 'The Prime Minister fully supports the decision taken by
the Home Secretary.'

Lord Pearson and crossbench peer Baroness Cox said in a joint statement that
they were ' promoting freedom of speech' and accused the Government of
'appeasing' militant Islam.

They added: 'Geert Wilders' Fitna film, available on the web, is not a threat to
anyone. It merely suggests how the Koran has been used by militant Islamists to
promote and justify their violence.'

r.camber@dailymail.co.uk

AND HE'S ABUSED LIVE ON AIR

BBC presenter Simon Mayo was forced to apologise after two guests swore while
talking about Mr Wilders yesterday.

Writers Quintin Jardine and Dennis Lehane used offensive language on Radio 5
Live at about 4pm, when many children were listening on the drive home from
school.

Their discussion about books had been broken off to cut to to a live interview
with the Dutch MP.

When the station returned to the discussion Mayo apologisedfor the interruption.
Scottish author Jardine said it was fine as 'w*****s like him need to be given
airtime so that people can hear what they are'.

Mayo immediately apologised to listeners.

But no sooner than he had finished than American writer Lehane blurted out:
'W***** is such a great word'.

The host said: 'It might be a great word in America, we can't use it, it's not
an appropriate word and we apologise for it.'

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Anti-Muslim MP sent packing

BYLINE: Christopher Hope, John Bingham and Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 404  words


A CONTROVERSIAL Dutch politician was sent back to Holland yesterday after trying
to enter Britain to show his anti-Muslim film in the House of Lords.

Geert Wilders had been invited to Westminster to show his 17-minute film Fitna,
which criticises the Koran as a "fascist book''.

But on Tuesday, Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, refused Mr Wilders entry
because his opinions "would threaten community security and therefore public
security'' in Britain.

Mr Wilders went ahead with his trip anyway, and flew from Amsterdam to London
yesterday. He arrived at Heathrow airport, to be met by officers from the UK
Border Agency, as well as Pim Waldeck, the Dutch ambassador to Britain. As he
was being led away, to be put on a return flight, Mr Wilders said: "I am not
nervous but is this how Great Britain welcomes a democrat?''

Holland's foreign minister, Maxime Verhagen, later criticised Britain for
refusing entry to Mr Wilders, and said he would press for a reversal of the
travel ban. "It is highly regrettable that a Dutch MP should be denied entry to
another EU country,'' he said.

Earlier on the flight, Mr Wilders had launched a savage attack on the
Government. He said: "They [the British Government] are the biggest

bunch of cowards in Europe.

I'm coming because I am invited by one of your members of parliament. I'm not
provocative. I am an elected representative. I use my freedom of speech.''

Mr Wilders has urged the Dutch government to ban the Koran. His film sparked
violent protests around the Muslim world last year for linking verses in the
text with footage of terrorist attacks.

Mr Wilders had been due to attend a screening of the film, organised by Ukip
peer Lord Pearson, in the Lords. Despite his non-appearance, the screening went
ahead in a committee room of the Lords, guarded by two policemen.

At the end of the invitation-only screening, there was a smattering of applause
among the audience of 20, including several peers.

In a joint statement, Lord Pearson and cross-bench peer Baroness Cox said they
were "promoting freedom of speech'' and accused the Government of "appeasing''
militant Islam. They added: "Fitna, available on the web, is not a threat to
anyone.''

The National Secular Society said Miss Smith had made a mistake in denying Mr
Wilders entry, but the ban was supported by the Muslim Council of Great Britain,
which said: "Geert Wilders has been an open and relentless preacher of hate.''

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DOUBLE DUTCH!;
Fury as Euro MP is barred

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 297 words


A DUTCH politician who attacks Islam has been banned from Britain - while Muslim
radicals can still preach hate here.

Geert Wilders was turned back at Heathrow airport yesterday on the grounds that
his presence "threatens public security".

The leader of Holland's Freedom Party - who is facing prosecution in his own
country for inciting hatred and discriminating against Muslims - claims there is
a "tsunami" of Islamists there and that the Koran is "fascist".

Of his ban from Britain, he stormed: "It proves that your Prime Minister, Gordon
Brown, is the biggest coward in Europe." UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson
leapt to the Dutchman's defence, asking: "Do you think this situation would
occur if Mr Wilders had said: 'Ban the Bible'?" National Secular Society
president Terry Sanderson added: "His may be a controversial opinion but he is
entitled to express it."

Even fanatical Muslim preacher Anjem Choudary said: "Rather than banning him, it
would be wiser to take part in open and public debate on Islam and if it offers
a better solution than capitalism." Wilders had been due to show his
controversial film, Fitna, at the House of Lords.

But a letter from the Home Office told him he would not be allowed into the UK.

He tried his luck anyway but was refused entry by immigration officials. He
said: "I was very surprised and very saddened that the freedom of speech that I
believed was a very strong point in UK society is being harassed today" A Home
Office spokesman said: "The Government opposes extremism in all its forms.

"It will stop those who want to spread extremism, hatred and violent messages in
our communities from coming to our country." Gordon Brown's spokesman said: "The
Prime Minister fully supports the decision taken by Home Secretary Jacqui
Smith."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOR: Lord Pearson AGAINST: Jacqui Smith
TURNED BACK: Geert Wilders got as far as London's Heathrow airport yesterday
then was told he must go home
RANTING CLERIC: Yusuf al-Qaradawi, 82, who visited London five years ago, has
defended suicide bombing.
HATE PREACHER: Anjem Choudary, 41, says Brits will "rot in hell" if they
celebrate St Valentine's Day.
HOMOPHOBE: Reggae singer Bounty Killer, 36, was allowed to perform in London
last November.
ANTI-WEST CLERIC: Syrian Omar Bakri Muhammad, 51, began the banned Al-Muhajiroun
group in Britain.
JEW HATER: Ibrahim Moussawi, 43, anti-Semitic Lebanese TV boss, was cleared to
enter Britain last autumn.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Comment: Free speech: The flying Dutchman

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 451 words


We live in censorious times: the Dutch MP Geert Wilders has been turned back at
Heathrow, Prince Harry is attending a racial awareness course, Carol Thatcher is
still puzzling over the offence implied by "golliwog" and, in what is surely a
case of otiose activity, the General Synod of the Church of England has formally
proscribed membership of the BNP for its clergy. It is also 20 years tomorrow
since Ayatollah Khomenei issued the notorious fatwa on Salman Rushdie for The
Satanic Verses, renewed by the Majlis in Tehran yesterday. The tension between
free expression and respect for racial and religious sensitivities is always
present.

Setting the boundaries to this is invidious. Any attempt risks becoming a victim
of a battle for sectional capture as faith vies with faith in a league table of
offence. That is why free speech is only limited by its potential to cause harm
to others. But even that limitation has to be exercised with extreme caution, if
at all. Take the latest example. Mr Wilders is an egregious example of a racist
provocateur. But his principal campaign is not his claimed struggle to defeat
the ideology of Islam. It is to promote himself by exploiting the ordinary if
unlikable human mistrust of strangers. Look back 20 years and see how the row
over The Satanic Verses was inflamed by political ambitions within Muslim
communities. Mr Wilders and his opponents are up to the same tricks.

Few would ever have heard of him, let alone his hectoring exercise in filmic
propaganda, had he not set out to promote it as a test of what was permissible.
He openly declared his intention of depicting the Qur'an as a violent and
warmongering text. He has done so (and faces prosecution in the Dutch courts as
a result). A Ukip peer, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, invited him to show the film in
the House of Lords. On Tuesday the government warned Mr Wilders that he
threatened community harmony and told him he would be refused entry to the UK,
but of course he came anyway. The consequences of the entry ban are greater than
those of allowing his nasty film to remain unknown. Responding to the fear of
violence does not always reduce disorder; it can make it more likely. Any
faction might now see the potential of making alarming noises. Meanwhile Mr
Wilders's deliberately distorted view of Islam has been widely circulated.

It was Mr Rushdie himself, 20 years ago, who argued that people "understand
themselves and shape their futures by arguing and challenging and questioning
and saying the unsayable; not by bowing the knee whether to gods or to men." He
was right. Mr Wilders should have been allowed to come. His film is offensive.
The ban is a defeat for the freedom of expression.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

National: Style notes: What about that hair?

BYLINE: Hadley Freeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 160 words


The Ukip peer Lord Pearson lauds Geert Wilders as a "very brave man" and, for
the latter's hairstyle alone, one must agree. When a man objects to being
described as a racist, it takes a certain sense of gall and irony to puff one's
silvery locks into the finest supremacist quiff available on the hairdresser's
menu. Maybe it's the way every strand is in such strictly controlled uniformity
that makes one look at this hairdo and immediately think "Ah! Racism!" Maybe
it's the Satanic-looking point from which it emerges on his untroubled brow.
Maybe it's the way one instantly wonders how many copies of Mein Kampf he can
store under there. It is a rare day that one is gifted with a chance to describe
a man's hair as racist but, truly, there is no other word for this "Toni & Guy
meets Himmler" look. If Prince Harry is concerned he has exhausted the
possibilities of costumes for fancy dress parties, he is highly recommended to
start growing and powdering now.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

National: 'Islamophobic' Dutch MP barred from entering UK: Rightwinger stopped
from showing film about Qur'an: Home secretary says he is threat to public
safety

BYLINE: Haroon Siddique and Peter Walker

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 568 words


Geert Wilders, the rightwing Dutch politician accused of Islamophobia, was
refused entry to Britain yesterday after arriving at Heathrow in defiance of a
ban.

Wilders was due to show his 17-minute film Fitna, which criticises the Qur'an as
a "fascist book", at the House of Lords yesterday. But on Tuesday he received a
letter from the Home Office saying he was not welcome in the UK because his
opinions "threaten community harmony and therefore public safety".

Wilders, who has 24-hour protection because of fears for his life, was besieged
by reporters on the flight from Amsterdam. He arrived at Heathrow shortly after
2pm and was detained by the UK Border Agency. He flew back to the Netherlands
later in the afternoon.

Speaking to the BBC, Wilders rejected accusations that he incited violence and
said he had travelled to the UK in December without fuss. "It's a very sad day.
It proves that your prime minister, Mr Brown, is really the biggest coward in
Europe," he said. "I think that a discussion is always better than barring
people or turning people away."

Fitna intersperses images of the

September 11 attacks with quotations from the Qur'an and its release last year
led to violent protests in the Muslim world. In 2007, Wilders called for the
Qur'an to be banned and likened it to Hitler's Mein Kampf. Last month, an
Amsterdam court ruled that he should be prosecuted for inciting racial hatred,
but Wilders has appealed against the decision.

The Home Office letter, sent on behalf of the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said
Wilders's presence in the UK "would pose a genuine, present and significantly
serious threat to one of the fundamental interests of society. The secretary of
state is satisfied that your statements about Muslims and their beliefs, as
expressed in the film and elsewhere, would threaten community harmony and
therefore public safety in the UK."

The foreign secretary, David Miliband, defended the Home Office against
criticism that it was jeopardising the British tradition of freedom of speech.
"There is no freedom to stir up religious and racial hatred," he said.

The Muslim peer Lord Ahmed and Muslim groups including youth organisation the
Ramadhan Foundation and the Muslim Council of Britain supported the ban. Ahmed
said Wilders "doesn't have any respect for law". The Dutch government, despite
not agreeing with his views, supported his right as an MP to enter Britain and
the Dutch ambassador, Pim Waldeck, was at Heathrow to assist him.

The UK Independence party peer Lord Pearson, who invited Wilders, said the Home
Office decision was another example of the authorities being "too frightened to
stand up to the Muslims". He said he disagreed with some of Wilders's views but
was "coming at this from the angle of free speech". "I think this man is raising
one of the most important issues of our time, which is Islamic militarism, which
is a violent jihad," said Pearson, who won support from other peers concerned
about freedom of speech implications. The screening of the film went ahead
despite Wilders's absence.

The shadow home secretary, Chris Grayling, said the Tories supported the ban if
Wilders "expressed views that represent a threat to public security. But people
like Ibrahim Moussawi, a spokesman for the terrorist organisation Hezbollah,
have not been banned". He added: "The government must apply the criteria
governing entry into the UK consistently."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

A ban that only helps the extremists - on both sides;
LEADING ARTICLE Mr Wilders has received far more attention than if he had been
let in

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 560 words


Lord Pearson of Rannoch must be feeling pleased with himself. The UK
Independence Party peer's invitation to the Dutch politician Geert Wilders to
attend a screening of his offensively anti-Islamic film, Fitna, in the House of
Lords was intended as a publicity generating act of provocation. It has achieved
both publicity and provocation. And Mr Wilders did not even need to set foot in
Parliament.

Just as depressing has been the apparent eagerness of some in Britain to be
provoked by the invitation. Their vociferous response has ensured that Mr
Wilders' obnoxious prejudices have achieved a far wider airing in Britain than
they would otherwise have enjoyed. These opposing sides - which feed on such
rows - have more in common than their rhetoric suggests.

But free societies are bound to throw up such explosive battles between closed
minds from time to time. The real question is where the Government's
responsibility lies in situations where the principle of free speech appears to
conflict with the imperative to guarantee public safety. Was the Home Office
right to ban Mr Wilders from entering Britain?

The answer is no. Freedom of speech and freedom of movement are principles that
we tamper with at our peril. Mr Wilders' opinions are certainly odious, but a
free society that allows us only to say things that will not offend others is
not worthy of the name. The law passed three years ago outlawing incitement to
religious hatred was a mistake for this very reason.

And by banning a citizen of the European Union (and an MP at that) from
travelling to Britain, the Government has established a most unfortunate
precedent at a time when the pressure to erect new boundaries between nations is
stronger than it has been for many years.

There are, it must be accepted, limitations on those freedoms. The Government
has a responsibility to preserve the safety of minority groups in Britain.
People have a right to express their opinions, but they do not have a right to
incite violence. The authorities, and sometimes the courts, must make a
judgement on where the legitimate expression of a viewpoint tips over into
dangerous incitement.

The radicalisation in recent years of young British Muslims by extreme Islamist
preachers has complicated such judgements. We should probably be sceptical of
the estimates from the security services regarding the number of terrorist cells
in the country, but there is evidence from the testimony of those with
first-hand knowledge of the radicalisation process that preachers do indeed play
a key role in preparing the susceptible for acts of violence.

The Government's decision to refuse to allow Omar Bakri Mohammed, the former
head of the extremist group al-Muhajiroun, back into Britain from Lebanon was
probably right. But the arguments on both sides tend to have some force. And
ministers must perform a difficult balancing act.

Yet they got the balance wrong by preventing Mr Wilders from entering the
country this week. The Dutch MP would not have been addressing a vast volatile
crowd. And the offensive film in question is already available for viewing on
the internet. Anyone who wants to see it can easily do so.

As well-intentioned as this ban might have been, it ended up playing into the
hands of those whose agenda is to set fellow Britons at each others throats. The
only winners have been the extremists.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

How the flying Dutchman was stopped in his tracks;
In a blaze of publicity, the anti-Islam campaigner was refused entry to Britain.
Jerome Taylor joined him on flight BD104

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words


THREE DAYS ago, few people in Britain, other than those of the far right, knew
of the Dutch politician Geert Wilders.

Yesterday though, in an own goal by the British Government, the anti-Islamist
was handed a stunning PR opportunity when he was turned away from Britain.

Apart from two empty rows at the front - reserved for Mr Wilders and his two
giant, shaven-headed bodyguards - there wasn't a spare seat on flight BD104 from
Amsterdam to London.

One third of the plane was filled with reporters and cameramen, there to
chronicle the moment the Dutch demagogue defied a Home Office ban on him
entering the country.

Mr Wilders, 45, had been due to show his film Fitna, which equates Islam with
fascism, in the House of Lords last night. He never arrived - but did garner
much helpful publicity. At the front of the plane, Mr Wilders held court. "I am
no champion of anything," he said. "I'm just trying to exercise my right to free
speech.

"My message to the British Government is that I am sad that the ghost of
Chamberlain still resides in Britain instead of the ghost of Churchill. I would
say to [Britain], even if you don't like me, even if you don't like my thoughts,
be brave and defend freedom of speech. If you don't then you are weak and you
are cowards."

When the plane landed at Heathrow at 2pm, the circus continued. Two plainclothes
immigration officers walked on to the plane and escorted Mr Wilders off for
questioning - pursued by the media pack and bodyguards. "Is this how Great
Britain meets a democrat?" the blond populist demanded.

He was sent back to Amsterdam on the next flight at 4.30pm. It is thought to be
the first time Britain has refused entry to an elected European politician since
the creation of the EU in 1993.

Mr Wilders seemed happy to have used the one-hour flight to rail against the
British Government, which he accused of appeasing "Islamofascists" and stifling
free speech. He repeated some of the criticisms of Islam that have made him so
reviled.

Most Dutch passengers seemed to understand what all the fuss was about but
Bridget Naughton, an Australian living in Utrecht, was nonplussed. "To be honest
I don't even know who he is," she said. "All I do know is that he's taken my
seat. When I checked in online last night I was in the front row, but now it
appears this Mr Wilders has taken it."

Mr Wilders had been invited to the House of Lords by Lord Pearson, a Ukip peer.
His 17-minute-long documentary Fitna is named after the Arabic word for "civil
war", and was shown last night regardless. The film links Islamic texts with
footage of terrorist attacks and calls the Koran a "fascist book". It has caused
waves of protests across the Muslim world, which Mr Wilders responded to by
warning of a "tsunami" of Islam swamping the Netherlands; calling for an
outright ban of the Koran in Holland and a halt on the construction of any new
mosques. He faces prosecution in Holland for inciting hatred and discriminating
against Muslims and their religion.

Yesterday, he denied any suggestion that he was being hypocritical to demand a
ban on the Koran while simultaneously criticising the British Government for
attacking his right to free speech. "I don't see a problem there," he said. "I'm
talking about the Koran, I'm not talking about the people. Unlike in the UK, in
Holland we have banned [Hitler's] Mein Kampf and I see a comparison between the
two books. They are both books full of totalitarian ideologies and they both
incite violence."

Muslim groups in Britain reacted angrily to his comments yesterday and praised
the Government for deporting him. Mohammed Shafique, director of the Ramadhan
Foundation, a group that promotes interfaith dialogue, said: "Mr Wilders' film
is all about demonising and attacking Islam and Muslims. He is a modern-day
Hitler, his hatred on Islam is based on fiction and his presence in the UK may
lead to community tensions. This is not about freedom of speech but about
stopping the incitement to religious hatred this man promotes. The Government
has been right in banning this man and there should be no let-up in letting him
through."

Mr Wilders said he intended to return the UK soon, regardless of whether or not
the ban on him is lifted. The Netherlands has pressed for a reversal of
Britain's decision to ban him.

Holland's Foreign Minister, Maxime Verhagen, said: "It is highly regrettable
that a Dutch MP should be denied entry to another EU country." The Dutch
ambassador to Britain, Pim Waldeck, was at Heathrow to offer Mr Wilders
assistance.

In a final, somewhat surreal gesture on the flight to Britain, a Dutch gossip
journalist handed the politician a pink burqa and said he should try to enter
the UK wearing it in order to fool immigration officials.

'The right to openly discuss religion is one of the most precious on earth'

Johann Hari, page 31

Ban helps the extremists

Leading article, page 32

Double Dutch The view from Holland

NRC HANDELSBLAD

"The British ban appears to trample on fundamental rights enshrined by the EU
and the Council of Europe but it also harms the concept that Europe is one open
space. London used to be a refuge for extremists and radicals who came from all
corners of the world. Russians, Chechens, Algerians and other radical Muslim
groups were allowed to settle there. Karl Marx fled to London from Paris.
Wilders had a return ticket. Even under a stricter regime, it should be possible
for him to come to London.

DE VOLKSKRANT

"Whatever one thinks of Wilders' views, he is an elected representative of an EU
country. He has a diplomatic passport to allow him to travel freely. The EU is a
symbol of the free exchange of persons and ideas and Britain cannot swoop down
on this freedom just by using the argument that Wilders wanted to spread
'extremism'. The British appear unimpressed by efforts by Dutch ministers to get
them to reconsider. But the Dutch will have to take them to task over this."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

A red carpet premiere missing its star

BYLINE: Ben Russell HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


AS FILM premieres go it was hardly the Odeon Leicester Square. Lord Pearson of
Rannoch had a red carpet for his screening of the anti-Islamic film Fitna
yesterday but then again, crimson is the standard colour for all the flooring in
the House of Lords.

What the UK Independence Party lacked for its 4pm debate was a star, after the
far-right Dutch MP Geert Wilders was turned back at Heathrow.

Two doorkeepers, resplendent in tailcoats and brass heraldic badges, were
stationed outside the door to Committee Room 4 in their Lordships' house for the
event deemed so controversial that Mr Wilders was banned from entry to Britain
by the Home Office. Black Rod, the most senior of the "men in tights" in the
Lords, even made an appearance in the corridor.

Inside the oak-panelled room, its yellow-papered walls and U-shaped desk more
used to Lords committees and legal hearings, only 25 souls - not including a
handful of reporters - turned out to see Mr Wilders' 17-minute film projected on
to screens at either end.

It was preceded by a decade-old Dispatches documentary chronicling the radical
Islamic activities of preachers such as Abu Hamza, who proposed a flying net
laced with explosives to bring down aircraft.

A small ripple of applause broke out from the front row of red leather chairs
after the end of Mr Wilders' film. A small panel discussed the images before the
whole event was repeated at a press conference outside the Palace.

Fitna juxtaposes verses from the Koran with gruesome images of the 9/11 attacks
on the twin towers, blood spattered corpses after the Madrid train bombings and
the severed head of a victim of hooded kidnappers. To a brooding classical
soundtrack, the film shows a graph of the increasing numbers of Muslims in the
Netherlands and shows bloodied children and veiled women under the title
"Netherlands of the Future?"

Baroness Cox, the peer who hosted the event, said she was "ashamed" Mr Wilders
had been barred from Britain.

In the Lords Chamber, Lord West of Spithead, the Home Office minister, faced a
stream of questions about the decision of his boss, the Home Secretary Jacqui
Smith, to bar Mr Wilders. Lord Pearson accused the Government of "appeasement,"
challenging the minister: "Do you think this situation would occur if Mr Wilders
had said ban the Bible? If it would not have occurred, why would it not have
occurred?"

Lord West, the former First Sea Lord, said: "I certainly don't think we are
guilty of appeasement in any way whatsoever."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SENT PACKING;
FAR-RIGHT MP TURNED BACK AT HEATHROW

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 262 words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband last night insisted he was right to stop a
Dutch MP entering Britain.

Far-right politician Geert Wilders flew to Heathrow planning to show an
anti-Muslim film at the Houses of Lords.

But he was held by officials and put on a plane home. Mr Miliband said Wilders'
film contained "extreme anti-Muslim" sentiment which would stir up hatred.

He went on: "We have profound commitment to freedom of speech. But there is no
freedom to cry 'fire' in a crowded theatre."

He was backed by Lib-Dem Chris Huhne who said: "Freedom of speech is precious
but there is a line to be drawn."

Mr Wilders, who faces trial at home for inciting hate, had been told he would
not be allowed in.

He has called for a Dutch ban on the "fascist" Koran. His film shows a copy of
the holy book followed by footage of the 9/11, London and Madrid attacks.

Wilders, 45, said it was a "sad day" for British free speech and called Gordon
Brown "the biggest coward in Europe".

The Tories pointed out that other people with controversial opinions had not
been banned.

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson, who invited Mr Wilders, said he did not
agree with all his views but defended his right to express them. He added: "Do
you think this situation would occur if Mr Wilders had said ban the Bible?"

The Dutch government said: "It is highly regrettable a Dutch MP should be denied
entry."

Screenings of the film went ahead in Westminster last night.

OTHERS BANNED

LOUIS FARRAKHAN Racist & anti-semitic views

SNOOP DOGG Drug and firearms convictions

YUSUF AL-QARADAWI Bombers 'are martyrs'

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BARRED MP yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

GEERT LOST;
Britain bars anti-Islam Dutch MP ; He calls PM 'coward' in film row

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 361 words


A FAR-right MP from Holland jetted into Heathrow only to be put on a plane
straight back to Amsterdam last night - as Britain refused him entry for
crusading against Islam.

Raging Geert Wilders branded Gordon Brown a "coward" as he was held by
immigration officers and quizzed for almost three hours.

He was here to attend a premiere in the House of Lords of a controversial film
he made which last year sparked violent protests in the Muslim world.

Wilders, 45, whose 17-minute production shows the terror attacks in New York,
Madrid and London spliced with verses from the Koran, slammed the British
government as "the biggest bunch of cowards in Europe". UK Independence Party
peer Lord Pearson, who invited the Dutch MP despite disagreeing with some of his
views, accused Home Secretary Jacqui Smith of trampling on free speech.

He declared: "We need to stimulate debate about Islam."

Prosecution

Only five peers - and no MPs - were among the 30 people who attended last
night's screening. The film was later shown again for journalists, including
some from Holland.

The Dutch Foreign Affairs Minister called Foreign Secretary David Miliband to
protest at the barring of his countryman. Maxime Verhagen said: "The fact that a
Dutch parliamentarian is refused entry to another EU country is highly
regrettable."

Holland's ambassador was dispatched to Heathrow. Wilders, a member of Holland's
Freedom Party, has urged his own government to BAN the Koran - warning a
"tsunami" of Islam is swamping the Netherlands. The MP - facing prosecution in
his homeland for his views - said at Heathrow: "Even if you don't like my
thoughts, be brave and defend freedom of speech."

The Home Office said: "Freedom of speech is a fundamental right, but one that
must be used responsibly and not as a cover for causing offence or division."

The Muslim Council of Britain backed the ban. But Islamic firebrand Anjem
Chaudary yesterday insisted Wilders should NOT have been barred. The former
lieutenant to Omar Bakri said: "Rather than banning him, it would be wiser to
take part in open and public debate on Islam and whether it offers a better
solution than capitalism."

c.hartley@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Storm ... message in controversial film last night
Row ... MP at Heathrow yesterday
Picture STEVE BAGNESS / MATRIXPHOTOS.COM
Ban . . . Jacqui Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

GEERT LOST;
Britain bars Dutch MP in anti-Islam row

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 208 words


SALE A FAR-right MP from Holland was put on a plane home last night - as Britain
refused him entry for crusading against Islam.

Angry Geert Wilders branded Gordon Brown a "coward" as he was held by SALE
immigration officers at Heathrow and quizzed for almost three hours.

He was to attend a premiere in the House of Lords of a film he made which last
year sparked Muslim protests.

Wilders, 45, whose 17-minute production shows the terror attacks in New York,
Madrid and London spliced with verses from the Koran, slammed the British
government as "the biggest bunch of cowards in Europe".

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson, who invited the Dutch MP despite
disagreeing with some of his views, accused Home Secretary Jacqu Smith, left, of
trampling on free speech.

He declared: "We need to stimulate debate about Islam." Only five peers were
among the 30 people at last night's screening. The film was later shown again
for journalists, including some from Holland.

The Dutch Foreign Affairs Minister Maxime Verhagen protested Wilders' barring
saying it was "highly regrettable".

Wilders has urged his own government to BAN the Koran.

The Home Office said: "Freedom of speech is a fundamental right, but must be
used responsibly."

c.hartley@ the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Storm ... controversial film

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 13, 2009 Friday 4:56 PM GMT

Geert Wilders, freedom of speech and its enemies

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 939 words


The Geert Wilders entry ban, his detention at Heathrow, and subsequent
deportation, is a sign of the times.

Welcome to undemocratic Britain, Mr Wilders gets his collar felt (Photo: Bruno
Waterfield)

Two of the UK Borders Agency heavy mob (Mr Wilders' Dutch security service
agents had to stop them manhandling him too roughly) nabbed the anti-Islam
politician as he arrived on flight BD104 on Thursday.

These kind of free speech wars are very much part of the warp and weft of
contemporary politics.

These developments were discussed, on Thursday night, at an excellent Institute
of Ideas and Bishopsgate Institute debate entitled: From Fatwa and book-burning
to Jihad and hate laws, 20 years of free-speech wars. A great event.

Again and again, the consequence of these rows seems to be escalating calls for
bans and ever greater consolidation of the idea that vulnerable or violent
people need to be protected from "hate speech".

Mr Wilders was banned because he faces court proceedings for incitement in the
Netherlands over his nasty Islamo-fascism-porn flick Fitna.

My Mar 28 2008 review of this "pathetic, infantile film which mutually flatters
both Islamist extremists and the self-proclaimed defenders of Western
civilisation, such as Mr Wilders" is here.

This film is too sad, mad and bad (offensive as it is) to warrant censorship.

Jacqui Smith, the daily more ludicrous Home Secretary, decided that Mr Wilders
should be refused entry (despite the fact he was in Britain just a couple of
months ago) because the Dutch MP was screening his film, at the invitation of a
Ukip peer.

Had she not banned him, Mr Wilders and his movie would have played to a tiny
gallery of cranky, right-wing Lords and a tiny circle of their more or less
loony admirers.

There would have been no media coverage.

Miss Smith ensured that Mr Wilders would become a cause célèbre.

Home Office officials deliberately, in my view, engineered this "hate speech"
storm to present the government as a champion of the "Muslim Community", as it
is officially defined by its self-appointed "leaders", who are usually deeply
conservative.

In doing so, Miss Smith has further poisoned the well of public debate while
damaging Britain's relations with an important European ally, the Netherlands,
for short-term, sectional opportunism.

An elected European politician was invited by a British parliamentarian (albeit
an unelected one) to speak in Westminster's House of Lords (albeit a chamber
that should be scrapped).

There is a convention here, and it is an important one, that governments do not
interfere in such contacts unless a threat to security is a clear and present
danger.

Britain has smashed this convention to bits.

It frogmarched a foreign MP off to the cells to win cheap headlines to cement
the government's multicultural credentials with a key constituency, Muslim
"representatives" such as the unelected Muslim Council of Britain.

"Geert Wilders has been an open and relentless preacher of hate - there is
little difference between his views and those of the far right," said a
spokesman for the Muslim Council.

Mr Wilders is himself little better. He is no defender of free speech and uses
identical "hate speech" language as his Muslim Council foes to demand a ban of
the Koran or Islamic dress such as the burqa.

"I want to ban the Koran," he told the media scrum on the aircraft to Heathrow.

"In the Netherlands we have banned Mein Kampf. I see a comparison between the
two books. Not only are both books of totalitarian ideology but they both also
incite violence and hatred."

Mr Wilders and his ideas are very much a part and parcel of same multicultural
dogma that has given rise to and power to organisations such as the Muslim
Council.

In the compartmentalised, alienated world of multiculturalism disputes are
settled, not by free debate or inquiry, but by a bidding war of claim and
counter claim based on emotional damage and the notion of cultural pain.

Multicultural Muslim groups claim that "hate speech" leads to offence and
emotional damage to a vulnerable section of society, who have been subject to
racial attacks.

Mr Wilders also constantly stresses his vulnerability to attack from Islamic
extremists and his strong sense of victimhood, a "martyrdom" further reinforced
by action such as the British ban.

The Freedom Party MP claims to represent a sense of grievance felt by liberals
in reaction to multicultural special pleading after by sometimes intolerant,
bigoted Dutch Muslim interest groups.

He is part of a Dutch trend, including the murdered Theo Van Gogh and Pim
Fortuyn, to turn inward, to stop looking outward by engaging in argument and to
adopt a siege mentality.

In the final analysis, Mr Wilders very rarely wheels out arguments. Instead, he
emotes, wearing his tortured heart on his sleeve or by rolling out sensation, in
the form of his shock jock Islamo-fascism movie.

He is the Dutch tradition of tolerance turned inside out into a hypersensitive
prickly intolerance based on an over inflated sense of fragility and an
infantile desire to shock.

This diminished outlook, which generates as many myths and crazy conspiracy
theories as a Jihadi website, exaggerates the risks posed by extremism - Mr
Wilders has Islamo-nutters, the Muslim Council has the BNP.

Mr Wilders should have the right to free speech, as we all do. He should be able
to exercise it and needs defending when he can not.

But he is not a defender of democratic rights himself.

Mr Wilders, Miss Smith, the Muslim Council and rest of the censorship circus, in
which he now plays a leading role, are all enemies of freedom of speech.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Banned MP hits out at 'cowards' after being sent back

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 660 words


Geert Wilders, the far-right Dutch politician, branded the British Government
"the biggest bunch of cowards in Europe" after he flew in to Heathrow yesterday
and was forced to turn back for home.

"It was the worst welcome of my life," the Dutch MP, a member of the Freedom
Party, told The Times as he sat on the runway yesterday evening waiting to
return to the Netherlands after immigration officials had denied him entry.
"They interviewed me for 45 seconds and made me wait for two hours," he
complained.

Mr Wilders said that he would appeal against the ban. "I read in The Times this
morning that maybe Wilders is a crazy guy but at least he has a right to speak
his mind," he added, paraphrasing the paper's editorial. "I love Britain and the
British people - I only have a problem with the cowardly Government of Gordon
Brown."

The day had started with Mr Wilders determined to test the Government's entry
ban after it was decided that he should not be allowed to attend a screening of
Fitna, his controversial anti-Islamist film, last night.

Mr Wilders, 45, an instantly recognisable figure in the Netherlands with his
reputation and shock of blond hair, caught a British Midland flight from
Amsterdam brandishing his passport and boarding pass. He said that he would have
to be physically restrained from entering the country. "I'll see what happens at
the border. Let them put me in handcuffs," he said.

Once in the air he called the British Europe's biggest cowards and told The
Times: "It is easy to invite people you agree with. It is more difficult to
invite people you disagree with and this is the proof of the pudding.

"I am going to Great Britain because I was invited by another politician [the
UKIP peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch]. I am a democrat. I am serving freedom of
speech. They are not only being nasty to me, they are being nasty to freedom of
speech. They are more Chamberlain than Churchill."

Soon after 2pm the aircraft landed but before they could disembark, Mr Wilders
and his entourage were confronted by two plain-clothes UK Border Agency guards.
Towering over them, the Dutch MP and his two minders offered no resistance and
were escorted through immigration into a holding room.

During the long walk along the airport's corridors, one of Mr Wilders's
bodyguards asked the officers to relax their grip on the MP. They kept a tight
hold on both arms as they walked, followed by a gaggle of journalists and
cameramen.

As he approached passport control, Mr Wilders was asked if he was nervous. "I'm
not nervous. I'm just anxious to find out what will happen to me. Is this how
Great Britain welcomes a democrat?"

Among those waiting for Mr Wilders in arrivals was Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for
London. "I thought it would be a nice touch to turn up and welcome him here if
he gets through," he said. He did not. Instead, Mr Wilders was told that he was
not being given leave to enter Britain and to get on the earliest flight out.
His 4pm flight back to the Netherlands was delayed after one runway was closed,
and he finally took off at 5.30pm.

The MP had been invited to attend a showing of his 17-minute film at the House
of Lords by Lord Pearson. The film features verses from the Koran with images of
terrorist attacks in New York, London and Madrid, and calls on Muslims to remove
"hatepreaching" verses from the text. Lord Pearson said that the screening would
go ahead regardless.

The decision to refuse Mr Wilders entry provoked Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch
Foreign Minister, to call David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, to protest
against the decision. "The fact that a Dutch parliamentarian is refused entry to
another EU country is highly regrettable," Mr Verhagen said.

The Home Office said: "The Government opposes extremism in all its forms. It
will stop those who want to spread extremism, hatred and violent messages in our
communities from coming to our country."

'I am serving freedom of speech ... they are being nasty to it'

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders, seen at Heathrow, has made a controversial anti-Islamist
film

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

Banned MP hits out at 'cowards' after being sent back

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 662 words


Geert Wilders, the far-right Dutch politician, branded the British Government
"the biggest bunch of cowards in Europe" after he flew in to Heathrow yesterday
and was promptly put on the first plane back under the Home Secretary's banning
order.

"It was the worst welcome of my life," the Freedom Party MP told The Times as he
sat on the runway yesterday evening waiting to return to the Netherlands after
being denied entry because he was deemed to pose a threat to public order.

On the flight back, Mr Wilders vowed to appeal against the ban and make another
attempt to visit Britain soon. But it became clear last night that Jacqui
Smith's prohibition order had brought Mr Wilders massive publicity in Britain
and many more online searches for his controversial anti-Islamist film, Fitna.

"I read in The Times this morning that maybe Wilders is a crazy guy but at least
he has a right to speak his mind," he added, paraphrasing the paper's editorial.
"I love Britain and the British people - I only have a problem with the cowardly
Government of Gordon Brown." The day had started with the Dutch MP determined to
test the Government's entry ban after it was decided that he should not be
allowed to attend a screening of Fitna at the House of Lords last night.

Mr Wilders, 45, caught a British Midland flight from Amsterdam brandishing his
passport. He said that he would have to be physically restrained from entering
the country. "I'll see what happens at the border. Let them put me in
handcuffs," he said.

Once in the air he called the British Government Europe's biggest cowards and
told The Times: "It is easy to invite people you agree with. It is more
difficult to invite people you disagree with.

"I am going to Great Britain because I was invited by another politician [the
UKIP peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch]. I am a democrat. I am serving freedom of
speech. They are not only being nasty to me, they are being nasty to freedom of
speech. They are more Chamberlain than Churchill." The aircraft landed at 2pm
but before they could disembark, Mr Wilders and his entourage were confronted by
two plain-clothes UK Border Agency guards. Towering over them, the Dutch MP and
his two minders offered no resistance and were escorted through passport control
into a holding room.

During the long walk along the airport's corridors, one of his bodyguards asked
the officers to relax their grip on the MP. But they kept a tight hold on him as
they walked, surrounded by a gaggle of journalists and cameramen.

Among those waiting for Mr Wilders in arrivals was Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for
London. "I thought it would be a nice touch to turn up and welcome him here if
he gets through," he said. He did not. Instead, Mr Wilders was told that he was
not being given leave to enter Britain and was ordered to get on the earliest
flight out. His 4pm flight back to the Netherlands was delayed after one runway
was closed, and he finally took off at 5.30pm. On the aircraft he said that he
planned to ask Jan Peter Balkenende, the Dutch Prime Minister, to appeal against
his ban from Britain.

The MP had been invited to attend a showing of his 17-minute film at the House
of Lords by Lord Pearson. The film features verses from the Koran with images of
terrorist attacks in New York, London and Madrid, and calls on Muslims to remove
"hatepreaching" verses from the text. Lord Pearson said that the screening would
go ahead regardless.

The decision to refuse Mr Wilders entry provoked Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch
Foreign Minister, to call David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, to protest
against the decision.

"The fact that a Dutch parliamentarian is refused entry to another EU country is
highly regrettable," Mr Verhagen said.

The Home Office said: "The Government opposes extremism in all its forms. It
will stop those who want to spread extremism, hatred and violent messages in our
communities from coming to our country."

'I am serving freedom of speech ... they are being nasty to it'

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders, seen at Heathrow, has made a controversial anti-Islamist
film
STEVE PARSONS / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

MEET LABOUR'S CITY CRONIES

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN

LENGTH: 2324 words


REVEALED: THE ROLL CALL OF BANKERS REWARDED BY BROWN AND BLAIR

LABOUR'S intimate relationship with the financial industry has seen dozens of
bankers given honours, appointed as ministers and given jobs on Government
taskforces, reviews and quangos.

An analysis by the Daily Mail reveals that while ministers are now railing
against the role of bankers in causing the economic crisis, they have spent the
last decade cosying up to the industry.

Labour has given 23 bankers honours, brought three into the Government as
ministers and involved 37 in commissions and advisory bodies. Seven have got
jobs on quangos and agencies, ten have been appointed to var-DEPUTY POLITICAL
EDITOR

ious councils, and four were given life peerages. Two banking chiefs have been
appointed to senior posts inside Number Ten.

In addition, banks have been awarded a string of Government contracts and
bankers have paid for hospitality events enjoyed by ministers.

When Labour came to power in 1997, it was desperate to be seen as being on the
side of big business and assiduously courted the City. Ministersdelivered
light-touch regulation that left the banks free to pursue aggressive lending and
investment strategies.

In a 2007 speech to the City, Mr Brown even claimed bankers had forged an 'era
that history will record as the beginning of a new golden age for the City of
London'.

Of the finance chiefs honoured by the Government, eight were given knighthoods,
seven CBEs, four OBEs and four MBEs.

Those who were knighted include Fred Goodwin, the former chief executive of the
Royal Bank of Scotland, who has been blamed for expected losses of up to
£28billion ñ the biggest in British corporate history.

In 2004, Sir Fred received his knighthood, on the advice of Mr Brown, for
services to banking. Two years later he was a member of the Chancellor's
International Business Advisory Council.

Nicknamed 'Fred the Shred', he instigated the acquisition of Dutch bank ABN Amro
that placed a toxic loan timebomb at the heart of one of Scotland's oldest
financial institutions.

Mr Brown now says he is 'angry' about the 'irresponsible risks' taken by RBS.

Other bankers knighted since Labour came to power include Sir James Crosby, head
of HBOS, who was forced to quit yesterday as deputy chairman of the Financial
Services Authority watchdog; Sir Philip Hampton, chief financial officer for
Lloyds TSB; and Sir Mervyn Pedelty, chief executive of Cooperative Financial
Services.

The others are Sir George Mathewson, group chief executive of RBS; Sir John
Bond, group chairman of HSBC Holdings; Sir Keith Whitson, group chief executive
of HSBC Holdings; and Sir Peter Burt, executive deputy chairman of HBOS.

Ministers who are former bankers include Paul Myners, appointed Financial
Services Secretary to the Treasury late last year.

He has extensive banking experience from time spent at NM Rothschild & Sons and
Gartmore, and has also held directorships with the Bank of New York, Coutts,
NatWest and Lloyds.

Shriti Vadera, appointed competitiveness minister last year after being given a
peerage, spent 14 years at UBS as an investment banker, while Mervyn Davies,
made trade minister last month, chaired Standard Bank.

Jeremy Heywood, who took up the role of Permanent Secretary in Number Ten last
year, was previously managing director and co-head of the UK

Investment Banking Division at Morgan Stanley.

The Financial Services Authority, Britain's financial watchdog, is also stuffed
with former bankers. Chairman Lord Turner is a former vice-chairman of Merrill
Lynch Europe, and Hector Sants, its chief executive, previously headed Credit
Suisse First Boston.

The Government has struck several lucrative deals directly with banks. The
Treasury appointed NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd as the its financial advisers to
help create Partnerships UK, a public-private partnership driving investment in
public services.

UBS has been asked to advise on nuclear building and advise on the Government's
stake in British Energy. The world's biggest money manager, it has reported a
£11.5billion loss for 2008.

Goldman Sachs, meanwhile, was engaged to provide financial advice on the
nationalised bank Northern Rock.

Recently, Mr Brown said people were 'going to the wall because of the
irresponsible mistakes of a few bankers'.

But Tory MP Michael Fallon, deputy chairman of the Commons Treasury select
committee, said: 'Gordon Brown has spent years cosying up to the bankers, and is
now desperately trying to heap all the blame on to them.

'But the financial system he designed that meant they weren't properly
supervised. They were allowed to let rip.'

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

...AND THE OTHER PERKS

IT is not only peerages and other honours with which Labour has rewarded the
bankers.

A total of 37 have also won highprofile jobs on Government commissions, quangos
and advisory bodies.

They include Glen Moreno, acting chairman of UK Financial Investments, a company
set up by the Treasury to manage the state's investments in banks at arms'
length from ministers.

He was trustee of a secretive fund ñ Liechtenstein Global Trust ñ which is at
the centre of a row over tax evasion.

A taskforce on banks and credit unions was chaired by former RBS chief executive
Sir Fred Goodwin ñ who is now blamed for losing RBS £28billion.

Damon Buffini, chairman of Permira, a private equity firm alleged to be the
backer of many companies that have slashed jobs, was appointed to the Prime
Minister's Business Council for Britain.

Lord Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, earned millions
during six years as a senior executive at investment bank Merrill Lynch until
2006.

Until last September he was a non-executive director at Standard Chartered Bank.

Sir Philip Hampton, deputy chairman of UK Financial Investments , is a former
Lloyds TSB finance director, and has also recently been appointed chairman of
RBS. Both banks have had to be bailed out by the taxpayer.

Sir Victor Blank, the chairman of Lloyds TSB, was criticised for merging his
conservatively-run operation with HBOS, a giant, aggressive bank in a takeover
brokered by Mr Brown. He is now on the National Economic Council, which advises
the

Government on economic policy.

BANKERS' BONUS: HOW THE HONOURS WERE HANDED OUT

KNIGHTHOODS

ï James Crosby: Chief executive of HBOS. Quit yesterday as deputy chair of FSA
after allegations he tried to silence warnings the bank was heading for
disaster. Knighted by Gordon Brown for services to the finance industry

ï George Mathewson, CBE: Group chief executive, RBS 1992 -2001, and chairman
2001-2006. Was then a £75,000 a year consultant to the bank as it headed for
collapse

ï Keith Whitson: Group chief executive of HSBC Holdings 1998-2003, for services
to banking

ï Peter Burt: Executive Deputy chairman of HBOS plc, for services to banking.
Tried to stop the takeover by Lloyds TSB

ï Mervyn Pedelty: Lately chief executive of Co-operative Financial Services, for
services to business and to charity

ï Philip Hampton: Chief financial officer for Lloyds TSB 2002-2004. Now deputy
chairman of UK Financial Investments and recently appointed chairman of RBS

ï John Bond: Group chairman of HSBC Holdings until 2006. Honoured for services
to banking

ï Fred Goodwin: Group Chief Executive of Royal Bank of Scotland and blamed for
expected losses of £28bn. Knighted for services to banking

CBE

ï Helen Weir (left): Group finance director of Lloyds TSB, for services to the
finance industry

ï Adrian Montague: Deputy chairman of Partnerships UK, for services to the
Private Finance Initiative

ï Christopher Lendrum: Vice chair of Barclays Bank until 2004

ï Susan Rice: Chief executive of Lloyds TSB Scotland, and now heads merged
Lloyds banking group in Scotland

ï Michael Marks (left): Executive chairman of Merrill Lynch, Europe, Middle East
and Africa, until 2002. Honoured for services to the finance industry

ï Philip Williamson: Lately chief executive, Nationwide Building Society, for
services to the finance industry

OBE

ï John White (left): Director of group technology of Royal Bank of Scotland for
services to the banking industry in Scotland

ï Lindsay Tomlinson: Ex-chair, Investment Management Association, for services
to the finance sector. Works for Barclays Global in Europe

ï Dennis Licence (left): Managing director of First Trust Bank, for services to
banking and to the community in Northern Ireland

ï Michael Ellis: Ex-fund commissioner of Fund Distribution Ltd, for services to
the financial services industry. Formerly of HBOS

MBE

ï Andrew Robinson (left): Head of community development Banking at NatWest and
Royal Bank of Scotland, for services to social and community enterprise

ï John Brown: Senior manager of Northern Bank Ltd, for services to banking

ï Paulette West (left): Barclays, for services to banking and to business for
black and minority ethnic people

ï Gary Lumby: Head of retail and small business banking at Yorkshire Bank, for
services to the finance industry

LIFE PEERAGES

ï Lord Turner: Chairman of Financial Services Authority. Earned millions as a
senior executive at investment bank Merrill Lynch between 2000-2006. Until
September 2008 was a non-exec director at Standard Chartered Bank.

ï Lord Leitch: Raised to a peerage in 2004, he donated £5,000 to Gordon Brown's
Labour Leadership campaign and is a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB

ï Lord Myners: Worked for a decade at NM Rothschild & Sons as a portfolio
manager. Given a peerage for services to innovation in the financial sector. Now
a finance minister

ï Lord Acton: Former banker at Coutts. was appointed as a life peer in 2000,
started his career as a director of Coutts & Co before becoming a barrister and
writer.

ï Baroness Cohen: Former banker. Was a non-executive director and consultant for
Charterhouse Bank Ltd at the time of her appointment as a Labour peer in 2000.

ï Lord Mervyn Davies: Former Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank

ï Shriti Vadera: Spent 14 years at UBS as an investment banker. Now Business
Minister. Last month had to apologise for claiming she saw economic 'green
shoots'

QUANGOS

ï Hector Sants: Chief executive of the FSA. He previously worked as Chief
Executive of Credit Suisse First Boston and has also worked on their executive
board

ï Glen Moreno: Acting chairman of UK Financial Investments. Until April was a
trustee of Liechtenstein Global Trust, which is at the centre of a row over tax
evasion. He now heads the company set up by the Treasury to manage the state's
investments at arms' length from ministers

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

A LOVE AFFAIR THAT MUST BE CALLED OFF

OFFICIALLY, former HBOS chief executive Sir James Crosby has 'resigned' as
deputy chairman of the Financial Services Authority. In fact, Gordon Brown has
dropped him like a red-hot King Edward, plucked straight from the oven.

Not only does the Prime Minister say his once-trusted adviser was 'right' to
step down. He even denies through his spokesman that the discredited banker ñ
author of two official reports ñ was ever an economic adviser to the Government.

How's that for a snub? In just 24 hours, Sir James has sunk from an honoured
quangocrat, knighted on Mr Brown's recommendation, to become a nonperson,
airbrushed out of public life.

The only wonder is that the PM waited until now to wash his hands of him.

True, Tuesday's allegations from whistleblower Paul Moore were highly graphic.
'Blinded by money, power and pride,' Sir James had sacked him for warning he was
leading HBOS to disaster.

But the substance of these charges has been known for months. Indeed, Mr Moore
broadcast most of them on the BBC last October ñ and they were well known in
Whitehall and the City long before that.

How could the Government allow Sir James to remain number two at the watchdog
whose job is to prevent bankers from behaving just as he is said to have done
himself?

The bitter truth is that New Labour has been far too cosy with City chancers
from the start. Even before Tony Blair came to power, he was sucking up to them
with his 'prawn cocktail offensive' to raise party funds and allay fears that
Labour would hammer the rich.

Since 1997, as the Mail's survey shows today, the Government has showered
honours and official jobs on bankers, dishing out gongs and seats on quangos
like Smarties to many of the very people responsible for the current
catastrophe.

No wonder regulation of the City has been so feeble (and tax breaks for
billionaires so generous) when so many of those doing the regulating and
lawmaking are City insiders themselves.

Yes, of course ministers need to draw on financial expertise. But if they are to
avoid repeating their mistakes, their overintimate affair with the City must
end.

AFFRONT TO FREEDOM

THE Mail holds no brief for Geert Wilders, the Dutch right-winger whose rabid
views on the Koran are, understandably, deeply insulting to Muslims.

Yet what does Home Secretary Jacqui Smith think she is doing, barring him from
the UK, where he was to visit the Lords as a guest of Ukip's eccentric Lord
Pearson? And what is Lord Ahmed thinking of, when he threatens to mobilise
10,000 Muslims to keep him away?

Wilders may be a revolting extremist, with a taste for hysterical propaganda and
pornographic cartoons. But he is also an elected MP in a fellow EU country.

The Home Office insists: 'We will stop all those who want to spread extremism
from coming to our country.'

Nonsense. It has let in thousands of them ñ including terrorists far more
dangerous than this Dutch weirdo. Indeed, Lord Ahmed himself welcomed a terror
suspect to the Lords three years ago.

Miss Smith, with her double standards and authoritarianism, has brought shame on
Britain's reputation for free speech.

POWER MADNESS

THIS icy winter, as Britain shivers, foreign energy companies stand accused of
keeping our prices artificially high.

Yet unbelievably, this is the moment Climate Change Minister Ed Miliband chooses
to hike them still further, with a green tax on fossil fuel.

Where are the men in white coats when we need them?

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

BRITAIN BARS 'RACE HATE' EXTREMIST

BYLINE: BY STEVE DOUGHTY SOCIAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 1601 words


AND AS HE THREATENS TO DEFY ORDER, FEARS OF MASS PROTEST BY MUSLIMS

A DIPLOMATIC row threatened to escalate into a religious and racial
confrontation last night, after Jacqui Smith banned an extremist Dutch
politician from entering Britain.

Geert Wilders, who is a far-Right political leader, had been invited to
Westminster by Lord Pearson, of the UK Independence Party, to show an
anti-Islamic film.

But using powers to ban foreigners thought likely to incite hatred, the Home
Secretary forbade Mr Wilders from entering Britain.

On Tuesday her officials told the politician he would be excluded as his visit
'would threaten community harmony and therefore public security in the UK'.

Mr Wilders, 45, has spent the last fours year under police protection in his own
country. He is a little-noticed activist who usually has the backing of just a
handful of Dutch MPs.

But Miss Smith's actions provoked an immediate complaint from the Dutch
government. Mr Wilders is thought to be the first elected EU politician to be
excluded since 1973, when Britain joined what was the Common Market.

Dutch Foreign minister Maxime Verhagen telephoned Foreign Secretary David
Miliband to protest.

Yesterday the situation became more heated as Wilders tried to turn his
exclusion into a demonstration. He said he will attempt to board his scheduled
flight to Heathrow today and defy immigration officers to turn him back.

'I was very surprised and very saddened that the freedom of speech that I
believe was a very strong point in UK society is being harassed today.

'I am seriously considering just trying it out and just getting on the plane.
Then I'll see what happens. Let them handcuff me.'

There were reports of a mass protest by up to 10,000 Muslims if he does defy the
ban.

Even if he fails to enter the UK, there are fears that protests may occur. Mr
Wilders has the support of the peers who are his hosts, their supporters ñ and
the backing of freedom-of-speech campaigners.

The history of rows over perceived insults to Islam ñ such as the demonstrations
in London about Danish cartoons published in newspapers three years ago,
suggests there may be a risk of confrontation if he enters the country.

Mr Wilders was to present his 15-minute film Fitna, which means 'strife' in
Arabic, in a committee room in the Palace of Westminster.

The footage cuts pictures of the September 11 terror attacks on the World Trade
Centre in 2001, with verses from the Koran. Mr Wilders has also compared the
Islamic holy book the Koran, to Mein Kampf and has described Islam as
'retarded'. His Freedom Party calls for the Koran to be banned.

The politician's hosts, Lord Pearson and Baroness Cox, said: 'We do not agree
with Geert Wilders that the Koran should be banned. We don't want it banned but
discussed ñ particularly by the majority Muslim community. We are therefore
promoting freedom of speech. Geert Wilder's Fitna film, which is available on
the web, is not a threat to anyone.

'It merely suggests how the Koran has been used by militant Islamists to promote
and justify their violence.' They said they would show the film 'with or without
Mr Wilders'.

Liberal Democrats supported the ban. Home affairs spokesman Chris Huhne said:
'There is a line to be drawn even with freedom of speech, and that is where it
is likely to incite violence or hatred.'

However, Labour peer Lord Ahmed, who is among leading opponents of Mr Wilders's
visit, pointed out that the politician faces prosecution in Holland for inciting
hatred against Muslims.

'We should be very careful when we are parliamentarians that we don't invite
someone in who incites hatred.

'We need freedom of speech of course. But what about my freedom of speech, and
what about my freedom of belief?'

Stephen Glover ñ Page 17

BOUFFANT HAIRED LIBERAL WHO TURNED HARDLINER

GEERT Wilders is the latest and most extreme face of anti-Islamic sentiment to
claim leadership of the growing political far-Right in Holland.

The 45-year-old has based his appeal to voters on loathing of the Koran and the
attempt to make a direct link between Islam and terrorism.

Previous populist anti-immigration leaders have been a little more ambiguous.

For instance, Pim Fortuyn, murdered by a leftist activist in 2002, was gay ñ and
his liberal approach to sex tempered his hard line on Islam.

By contrast, Mr Wilders pumps out the simple message that the Koran is bad and
that Muslims must abandon it.

Lawyer Gerard Spong, a friend of Fortuyn's, has persuaded Dutch appeal judges to
prosecute Wilders for his film.

'Geert Wilders incites hatred against Muslims, and Pim did not do that: he had
sex with Moroccan boys in dark rooms,' he said.

Mr Wilders, who is married to a Hungarian, was born to a middle-class Catholic
family, the son of a printing company director in the town of Venlo.

Despite his regular pronouncements on the Judaeo-Christian heritage of his
country, he is no longer a religious man.

He began working for a health insurance company before shifting into politics as
a speechwriter for a liberal party.

Some say his experience of being mugged as a city councillor in Utrecht in the
late 1990s may have made him more Right-wing.

In 2002, Mr Wilders broke with the liberals over their support for Turkish entry
into the EU.

He formed his own Freedom Party following the 2004 murder film maker Theo van
Gogh.

He was killed by an Islamic radical after making a film called Submission,
showing an actress in see-through clothing with Islamic verses written on her
body. In 2006, Mr Wilders campaigned for a ban on the burqa and secured nine
seats in the Dutch parliament.

The message of the Freedom Party is that the Koran is akin to Hitler's Mein
Kampf, that Islam is a 'fascist ideology' ñ and that Dutch society is being
engulfed in a tidal wave of Islamisation.

It calls for an end to immigration by Muslims and for payments to encourage
Muslims to emigrate.

As part of this, Wilders has produced the 15-minute Fitna film, which contains
footage of victims of the terror attacks on the World Trade Centre and the sound
of those caught in the buildings calling emergency services for help and victims
of the 2005 terror attacks in London.

The film ends with the sound of tearing pages and urges Muslims to do the same
to the Islamic holy book, the Koran.

In some cities in Holland, Muslims make up a third of the population. Mr
Wilders's call for less tolerance of immgrants is receiving a hearing among
growing numbers who are becoming alarmed at the direction their country is
taking.

There is also a sense of deepening unease in other European countries, where
political leaders are only too aware of the potential for reactionary mass
politics in a time of recession and unemployment.

AND JUST LOOK AT THOSE WE HAVE LET IN...

THE Home Secretary may consider Geert Wilders too much of a threat to public
safety to be allowed into Britain. But by contrast, these are some of the
characters who have been let in:

FIREBRAND CLERIC

YUSUF AL-QARADAWI, 82 VISITED London in 2004 at the invitation of Ken
Livingstone, then the city's mayor, who considered him a 'progressive force for
change'.

Egyptian-born spiritual leader of Muslim Brotherhood, which embraces the Hamas
organisation that controls Gaza. Has justified suicide bombing, which he calls
martyrdom, and the killing of Israeli women and children, on the grounds that
they are 'militarised'.

HOMOPHOBIC SINGER

BOUNTY KILLER, real name Rodney Price, 36 PERFORMED in East London in November
despite appeals to the Home Secretary from gay activists who wanted him banned
from the country. The Jamaican reggae singer is accused by critics of glorifying
gang violence and guns and of inciting murder against gays. One song, translated
from the Jamaican patois, calls on listeners to 'burn a fire on poofs and
faggots'. Another claims: 'We need no promo to rub out dem homo'.

BILLIONAIRE CULT LEADER

REVEREND SUN MYUNG MOON, 89 LABOUR Home Secretary Charles Clarke overturned a
27-year ban against the cult leader and allowed him 24 hours in Britain to
address a rally in London, in 2005. The Korean-born billionaire declares himself
to be the messiah. His movement, famous for its mass weddings of thousands of
couples, is said to brainwash the young people it persuades to become followers.
It has been a failure in Britian since 1981, when the Moonies lost a milestone
libel case against the Daily Mail. The Mail had called Moon's Unification Church
'the church that breaks up families'.

SERIAL PAEDOPHILE

RAYMOND HORNE, 62 A SERIAL paedophile with a long jail history in Australia for
offences against boys from 13. Horne, who emigrated to Australia with his
parents in 1952, when he was five, has a criminal record in Queensland
stretching back 43 years. He was released last year from a 12-year sentence for
14 offences against two homeless boys he met while posing as a charity
volunteer. British ministers made no objection when Australian authorities
deported him to this country after he finished his sentence, on the grounds that
because he never took out Australian citizenship, he is British.

ANTI-SEMITIC AGITATOR

IBRAHIM MOUSSAWI, 43 Propagandist for Hezbollah cleared to enter the country by
Jacqui Smith in November, despite fierce Tory objections. He is the head of a TV
station that routinely describes suicide bombers as 'martyrs' and which has
broadcast a 30-part series on the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, a an
anti-semitic forgery produced in Russia at the beginning of the 20th century
that pretends to present a Jewish conspiracy for world takeover. Moussawi is
alleged to have said that Jews are 'a lesion on the forehead of history'.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

I'll defy ban on British visit, says Dutchman behind anti-Muslim film

BYLINE: Joan Clements in The Hague and Christopher Hope Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 500  words


A DECISION to ban a controversial Dutch film-maker from showing his anti-Muslim
film in the House of Lords has led to a diplomatic row.

Geert Wilders, the leader of the Dutch Freedom Party, vowed to press ahead with
his visit today despite being banned from entering Britain by Jacqui Smith, the
Home Secretary, on Tuesday night.

Miss Smith's decision prompted Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch foreign minister, to
telephone David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, to say he was "deeply upset and
disappointed'' by Britain's refusal to allow entry to a Dutch parliamentarian
"from a fellow EU country''.

Critics said the decision to ban Mr Wilders contrasted with the Home Secretary's
decision to allow Ibrahim Mousawi, the chief spokesman for the Lebanese group
Hizbollah, to enter Britain last May and address meetings organised by the Stop
the War Coalition despite being banned from entering France and Ireland.

Mr Wilders, 45, had been invited by Lord Pearson, of Ukip, to show his
anti-Islam film Fitna and hold a question-and-answer session.

However, a letter from the Home Office to Mr Wilders said that in the view of
Miss Smith "your presence in the UK would pose a genuine, present and
sufficiently serious threat to one of the fundamental interests of society''.

It carried on that Miss Smith was "satisfied that your statements about Muslims
and their beliefs, as expressed in your film Fitna and elsewhere, would threaten
community harmony and therefore public security in the UK''.

The 17-minute film, which likens Islam to Nazism and links it to terrorist
attacks, has been described as "offensively anti-Islamic'' by Ban Ki-Moon, the
UN Secretary General.

Mr Wilders said he was intent on boarding a flight to London today.

"I hoped my political friends in Britain were closer to Churchill's policies
against threats to the country rather than Chamberlain's appeasement policies,''
he said.

"If they want to put me in handcuffs, a Dutch parliamentarian and party leader,
and send me back to the Netherlands, so be it.

"This might wake some people up to the threat of the influence of extremist
bullies who will have won a battle but not the war''.

Miss Smith's decision was backed by Lord Ahmed, a Labour peer who had been
lobbying parliamentary authorities not to allow Mr Wilders to broadcast the film
in the Lords.

"There was a real danger that his presence could lead to an incitement of racial
hatred and violence in some communities,'' he said.

But in a statement, Lord Pearson, along with Baroness Cox, a cross-bencher,
accused the Government of appeasement. "We do not agree with Geert Wilders that
the Koran should be banned,'' said the statement. "We don't want it banned but
discussed. We are promoting freedom of speech.

"We intend to show and discuss the film, with or without Mr Wilders.''

Mr Wilders is a former member of the Dutch Conservative Party.

He resigned two years ago in protest against what he believed was a "dangerous
and too tolerant attitude'' to extremist groups in Holland.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Outrage as UK bans Dutch MP for being anti-Islam

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 363  words


A FURIOUS row erupted last night after a Dutch MP was banned from Britain
because of his anti-Islamic views.

But Geert Wilders said he would fly to the UK today for a showing of his film
Fitna, at the House of Lords, regardless of the Home Office banning order.

Speaking from Amsterdam, the Freedom Party leader said: "Let them put me in
handcuffs."

Campaigners claim the decision was taken to avert riots.

National Secular Society president Terry Sanderson said: "It is very disturbing
that they are prepared to do this just on the basis that somebody might object."

Mr Wilders was backed by UKIP's Lord Pearson, who had planned to host the
screening.

He accused the Government of "appeasement", saying: "Would any of this have
happened if Geert Wilders had said 'ban the Bible'? Of course it wouldn't."

Mr Wilders' 17-minute film claims the Koran, Islam's holy book, turns Muslims
into terrorists. In the past he has warned of a "tsunami" of Islamists swamping
Holland, while his party has called for strict immigration rules and a ban on
Muslim headscarves.

Mr Wilders said: "I will see what happens at the border. Let them put me in
handcuffs. We are talking here about a European Union country, one of the oldest
democracies in the Western world."

The Home Office said yesterday that the ban was on grounds of "community harmony
and therefore public security".

That was backed by Labour's Lord Ahmed, a Muslim.

He said: "He is indicted for inciting racial hatred in his country. He has
already incited hatred.

"When the meeting was convened, I received hundreds of emails and letters from
people who insulted and threatened me.

"If he comes here he will create more incitement and racial violence." Last
night the Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen, a political opponent of Mr
Wilders, complained about the ban to our Foreign Secretary David Miliband.

But under UK and EU rules, anybody can be barred from Britain on the grounds of
"public policy, public security or public health".

A Home Office spokesman said: "The Government opposes extremism in all its
forms. It will stop those who want to spread extremism, hatred and violent
messages in our communities from coming to our country."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders will defy the ban, saying: 'Let them put me in handcuffs'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Anti-Islamist MP vows to defy British ban

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 100 words


A far-right Dutch politician will attempt to defy a government ban on entering
Britain today amid a diplomatic row over his right to visit. Geert Wilders, an
anti-Islamist MP, will fly into Heathrow to attend a screening of his film Fitna
at the House of Lords hosted by the UKIP peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch. The
police would have to prevent him physically, he said. "I'll see what happens at
the border. Let them put me in handcuffs." The film features verses from the
Koran with images of terrorist attacks and calls on Muslims to remove
"hate-preaching" verses from the text.

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Anti-Islamist politician vows to defy ban by entering Britain

BYLINE: Emily Gosden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 276 words


A far-right Dutch politician will attempt to defy a government ban on his
entering Britain today, amid a diplomatic row over his right to visit.

Geert Wilders, an anti-Islamist, will fly in to Heathrow to attend a screening
of his film Fitna at the House of Lords hosted by the UKIP peer Lord Pearson of
Rannoch.

The authorities would have to prevent him physically, he said. "I'll see what
happens at the border. Let them put me in handcuffs." The film features verses
from the Koran with images of terrorist attacks in New York, London and Madrid
and calls on Muslims to remove "hatepreaching" verses from the text. Lord
Pearson said that the screening would go ahead with or without Mr Wilders.

The Home Office decision to refuse Mr Wilders entry on account of his views
provoked Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch Foreign Affairs Minister, to call David
Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, to protest at the decision.

"The fact that a Dutch parliamentarian is refused entry to another EU country is
highly regrettable," Mr Verhagen said. He revealed his conversation with Mr
Miliband via a posting on his Twitter website.

Mr Wilders, 45, is being denied entry under an EU law that allows member states
to turn away individuals from other member states if they are deemed to
constitute a threat to public policy, security or health. Since 2005, 270 people
have been excluded on suspicion of being a threat to national security or
fostering extremism, including 79 "preachers of hate".

Muslims including Lord Ahmed support the Government's decision to deny Mr
Wilders entry. A spokesman for the House of Lords declined to comment on the
allegation.

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Banned from Britain, Dutch campaigner against Islam

BYLINE: Ben Russell and Vanessa Mock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words


A FAR-RIGHT Dutch MP whose film linking Islamic texts with the terror attacks on
New York sparked protests around the Muslim world was last night banned from
entering Britain.

Geert Wilders, who leads the small Dutch Freedom Party, was due to show his
controversial 17-minute film at an event in the House of Lords tomorrow, but was
informed yesterday by British officials that he would not be allowed to enter
the country. The decision sparked an immediate diplomatic row after the Dutch
government pressed Britain to reverse the ban.

The film, Fitna, which criticises the Koran as a "fascist book", sparked violent
protests around the Muslim world last year. The film, which has been posted on
the internet, juxtaposes images of the Koran with footage of the 9/11 twin tower
attacks and other terrorist atrocities. Mr Wilders had been invited to show the
film at an event in Westminster hosted by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the former
Conservative, who is now a UK Independence Party member of the House of Lords.

The film starts with an image of the hugely controversial cartoon of the Prophet
Mohamed with a bomb as a turban that sparked global protests after it was
printed in a Danish newspaper. The film then shows images of the 9/11 aircraft
flying into the World Trade Centre, with quotes from calls to the emergency
services from people inside the buildings.

It also contains images of bloodstained corpses following the 2004 Madrid rail
bombings before showing gruesome images of beheadings and attacks. The film then
shows statistics indicating a growing Muslim population in the Netherlands .

Last night, the Home Office refused to comment on Mr Wilders' case. But a
spokesman said: "The Government opposes extremism in all forms. It will stop
those who want to spread extremism, hatred and violent messages in our
communities from coming to our country. That was the driving force behind
tighter rules on exclusions for unacceptable behaviour that the Home Secretary
announced in October last year."

Mr Wilders, who lives with round-the-clock security after receiving death
threats, said a letter from the British embassy informed him he was being
refused entry because his views "threaten community harmony and therefore public
security" in the UK.

He condemned the British Government's decision as "cowardly".

"This is something you'd expect from Saudia Arabia, not Great Britain," Mr
Wilders told a parliamentary session. But he signalled that he might make the
journey to London on Thursday despite the ban.

"I am seriously considering just trying it out and just getting on the plane,"
he said. "Then I'll see what happens. Let them handcuff me," he was quoted as
telling Dutch newspaper NRC.

The Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen said his government would continue to
press Britain to reverse the ban. He said he "deeply regretted" that a Dutch
lawmaker had been barred entry to the UK.

Mr Verhagen said he had first contacted the British ambassador in The Hague.
Having failed, Mr Verhagen then telephoned his British counterpart David
Miliband. "It is highly regrettable that a Dutch parliamentarian is refused
entry to another EU country," he said in a statement.

Mr Wilders, whose Freedom Party holds nine of the 120 seats in the Dutch
Parliament, said he was shocked by the travel ban. He said: "We are talking here
about a European Union country, one of the oldest democracies in the Western
world."

Lord Pearson, who invited Wilders to show Fitna at the House of Lords, said he
was "very surprised" at the news and was looking into what had happened to the
Dutch MP.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Brown loses bounce as Labour rating hits low

BYLINE: Peter Riddell; Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words


Labour's standing with voters has dropped to its lowest level for six months,
with Gordon Brown's bounce after the first bank rescue virtually wiped out, the
latest Populus poll for The Times suggests today. However, new figures also
released today suggest that consumers adopted a "carry on spending" tactic in
the new year sales.

Despite signs that the collapse of economic confidence may have bottomed out,
ratings for Mr Brown and Labour have suffered badly, with Labour dropping five
percentage points to 28 per cent since last month. The findings come amid
increasing public anger over bank bonuses, with Mr Brown and David Cameron both
suggesting yesterday that executives should waive their rights to payouts even
if they are entitled to them.

A senior minister also warned that the financial crisis would be worse than the
Great Depression of the 1930s. Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, said: "This is
becoming the most serious global recession for, I'm sure, over 100 years as it
will turn out." The Tories called it a staggering admission.

In spite of Labour's woes, the Conservatives have slipped back one point to 42
per cent in the Populus poll, with the Liberal Democrats rising by three points,
to 18 per cent, their best position since August. It is the second recent poll
to show an improvement in Nick Clegg's fortunes.

Other parties (including the Scottish Nationalists, the Greens, the UK
Independence Party and the British National Party) have gained three points to
12 per cent.

The decline in confidence in the economy appears to have been halted, at least
for now. The number who think that the country as a whole will do well this year
has risen since last month from 18 to 20 per cent, with a similar drop in those
thinking that the economy will do badly, from 79 to 77 per cent. But these
changes are within the margin of error and the net balance (of optimists less
pessimists) is minus 57 per cent, the second lowest ever.

There remains a huge gap between confidence about the economy as a whole and
about family prospects. More people think that they and their families will do
well over the next year (49 per cent) than badly (48 per cent).

The net balance of plus one compares with minus four last month.

That confidence is reinforced by figures suggesting that retailers rang up in
January their strongest sales growth for more than six months. According to the
British Retail Consortium, consumers defied the recession to give shops an
increase of 3.2 per cent in the total value of sales compared with the same
month last year. However, the consortium was doubtful that the strong results
could last.

Meanwhile, the Tories' image continues to be more favourable on almost all
measures, such as having a good team of leaders and being competent and capable.
However, the number seeing the Tories as united has fallen from 60 to 49 per
cent since last September, while Labour is up from 23 to 34 per cent. The Lib
Dems are ahead on unity, at 52 per cent.

6 Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,504 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between February 6 and 8.

Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted
to be representative of all adults. For more details see www.populus.co.uk.

Bankers face MPs, pages 18, 19 Ann Treneman, Sketch, page 20 Spending surprise,
page 41

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Brown visits a childcare centre in East London yesterday. His
"bounce" has been wiped out

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 9, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Clarke to keep 'low profile' during Euro election

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


KENNETH CLARKE has revealed he will keep a low profile during the European
election campaign this spring in an attempt to limit damage from Tory splits
over Europe.

In his first newspaper interview since returning to frontline politics last
month, the shadow Business Secretary concedes his pro-European views are at odds
with policies on which the Tories will fight the 4 June European Parliament
elections.

Answering questions from readers of The Independent today, he says: "I will
consider invitations to campaign, but some of our European election candidates
may feel as I do that I would not be the most persuasive of advocates on some of
their campaigning issues."

Mr Clarke is known to disagree with David Cameron over key aspects of Tory
policy on Europe. He opposes the party's call for a referendum on the EU's
Lisbon Treaty, which could create a headache for the Tory leadership if Ireland
revives the plan by voting "Yes" in a second referendum this autumn.

Mr Clarke is against Mr Cameron's plan to pull Tory MEPs out of the centre-right
European People's Party grouping in the parliament. He hopes the Tory leader
will shelve an idea he believes would reduce the party's influence.

Finally, Mr Clarke supports Britain joining the euro in principle, though he
admits the move is not "feasible" at present. Under Mr Cameron, the Tories have
said they would never join.

Mr Clarke insists: "Conservative policy on Europe has been settled by David
Cameron, and I have no intention of seeking to challenge it." He says the
party's "reasonably moderate" stance was not a barrier to him joining the Shadow
Cabinet.

Tory officials are confident that splits over Europe can be avoided during the
campaign. They hope the public will discount differences between Mr Cameron and
Mr Clarke because the two "agreed to disagree" when last month's reshuffle was
announced.

The Tories are quietly hoping to make gains in the poll. At the last European
elections in 2004, they topped the poll, winning 26.7 per cent of votes and 27
of the UK's 78 seats, with the UK Independence Party gaining 12 seats. The
Tories believe support for Ukip has since fallen.

Labour did badly in 2004, winning just 22.6 per cent of the votes and 19 seats.
An even worse performance this year would be seen as a clear sign the party is
heading for a crushing general election defeat, although fresh moves to oust
Gordon Brown are unlikely.

An ICM poll for The Sunday Telegraph put the Tories on 40 per cent, Labour on 28
per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 22 per cent.

KEN CLARKE ANSWERS YOUR QUESTIONS, PAGES 12 & 13

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                February 8, 2009
                                 First Edition

BBC was right to get the stupid celeb out of there

BYLINE: Janet Street-Porter EDITOR-AT-LARGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1144 words


Carol Thatcher, martyr in the cause of free speech or dumb blonde? Again the BBC
runs a news story about itself - the sacking of Carol from The One Show -
because she described a black tennis player as a "golliwog". It's not great when
a news organisation that's supposed to represent a gold standard of reporting
decides that the sacking of a part-time reporter is more worthy of inclusion on
the main news than school closures, the demise of the high street, or interest
rates. Given this self-obsession, can we expect a news flash if Jonathan Ross's
wife Jane stops dyeing her hair that unfortunate shade of shocking pink? Who
decides these things?

I have experience of these changing priorities because, a while ago, I was at
home when I heard my name on the 9am news on Radio 4, which told listeners I had
been arrested because of an allegation that I had made a racist remark to a
neighbour. I was increasingly incredulous as this information was repeated
throughout the day on the BBC. At the time I wasn't even working for it. By the
way, no charges were ever brought and the whole matter was dropped, but the BBC
didn't bother to broadcast that fact to the nation. It's a rum business, this
people-focused news agenda in the age of celebrity.

Now, the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, has waded in, saying he thinks Carol
shouldn't have been sacked, although he found her comment "a bit offensive". I
disagree. Carol Thatcher is monumentally stupid. As writer Mike Phillips said
last week, you have to be downright dim not to know that such language is
offensive in contemporary Britain.

For years, people have charitably described Carol as "eccentric", just as others
use the same term of Sarah Kennedy. Ms Kennedy caused outrage when she said on
her Radio 2 programme she didn't see a black man in the dark until he opened his
mouth to yawn. The BBC apologised, but not on air. Both Ms Kennedy and Ms
Thatcher like a few bevvies, but that's not really an excuse for lazy racism.
Both seem rather sad middle-aged women, so perhaps coming out with unexpected
offensive remarks makes them feel part of the cut and thrust of the youthful
media world - who knows?

In 2007, I made a series for ITV2 with Carol, in which we drove black taxis.
Carol declined to turn up for the final day's shooting, saying she felt unwell.
That might have been the case, but it caused monumental problems for the
production. It is thoroughly unprofessional not to complete a seven-part series
you have been contracted to shoot.

Before Carol took part in I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here! we had a
drink. I told her the cameras would capture her every move, so I was astonished
to see her urinating next to her bed in the jungle (the pictures were edited for
transmission). Nevertheless, the public warmed to Carol and she was a popular
winner.

She's a lonely character, who finds her mother's decline hard to bear, loyally
visiting her nearly every day, whereas her brother has upped sticks to live
abroad. And yet, she decided to reveal the extent of Baroness Thatcher's
dementia in a book, something which many found unnecessarily intrusive. So Carol
is, at best, a bit of a troubled character. It's interesting that initially she
wouldn't apologise for her remark, claiming it was a "joke" when it clearly was
nothing of the kind.

The BBC was right to axe Carol from The One Show, but, more importantly, they
should start demonstrating consistency. The BBC1 controller Jay Hunt claimed
Jonathan Ross wasn't sacked over Andrew Sachs, because he "was aware he had
caused offence" - but he didn't apologise publicly for 11 days, and continued to
make jokes about the incident off-air. BBC3 broadcast a revolting programme last
month called Most Annoying People 2008, in which Radio 5 presenter DJ Spoony
slagged off lesbians: "Let the munters and mingers get each other ... no one
really wants them ones." Referring to Lindsay Lohan and Samantha Ronson, he
said: "When they're hot and fit, Hollywood superstars ... they should be saved
for other guys."

On the same programme, Ricky Martin was judged annoying because he refused to
confirm or deny he was gay. Viewers called the show "half-witted student crap"
and gay websites condemned it. But neither witless Spoony nor the BBC
apologised, even repeating the programme. Meanwhile, Jeremy Clarkson, at a press
conference in Australia, calls the Prime Minister "a one-eyed Scottish idiot". I
doubt he will be reprimanded, as his brand, like Jonathan Ross's, is a valuable
commodity to the cash-strapped corporation. But Carol Thatcher is very
disposable.

ALAN WATKINS PAGE 45

Forever Young Will on politics is a breath of fresh air

He's definitely got viewer appeal - Will Young's debut on 'Question Time'
boosted the show to its highest rating in the current series, with more than 3.2
million people watching. Will might have a degree in politics from Exeter, but
he seemed a little over-awed by the politicians on the panel: the Secretary of
State for Transport Geoff Hoon (shouldn't he have been organising grit and salt
to keep our roads open?), shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
Theresa May and right-wing Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP.

Will and Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, both have a completely
different way of expressing themselves to the hard-boiled politicos, who spent
the entire show scoring points off each other and continually interrupting.

I've appeared on 'Question Time', and it's hard not to feel like a fish out of
water. The way professional politicians talk, with all the rhetoric,
point-scoring and prepared briefing notes, turns off most of the public, who are
increasingly disenchanted and cynical about the difference between the main
parties. Will looked a bit uncomfortable, and in truth he didn't say anything
that remarkable, but he was a breath of fresh air, and will have brought
thousands of younger viewers to the programme. More, please!

An icy blast of the good life

Snowed in all week in North Yorkshire. Last Sunday, drove up the hill by house
but car slid back down. Monday, woke up to thick snow. Fed birds, ate leftovers.
Tuesday, car stuck in garage, 18 inches of snow. Yorkshire Water owns road to
local village but it's impassable. Wednesday, had to work in York so begged
farmer for lift in truck. Emailed Yorkshire Water, urging them to grit road.
School bus not coming down, too dangerous. Thursday, snowed again. Ran out of
salt, on low-sodium diet. Buying minimal rations as have to carry home. Friday,
reduced to talking to birds. Yorkshire Water refuses to grit road; so does
council. No one cares about families marooned in the Dales. Saturday, eating my
way through freezer. Farmer says snow predicted for the rest of month. Might
build an igloo. How's that for green living?

Comment 'Jade Goody's lack of education has shortened her life' Joan Smith PAGE
42

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                February 8, 2009

Opinion: Will Young takes on Yaffle and the Sock - and triumphs

BYLINE: Barbara Ellen

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 258 words


Who knows what drove Will Young to join the panel of Question Time. A university
graduate, he's known to be cleverer than most pop stars, but that's a bit like
saying he's cleverer than most plant pots (sad fact: everyone is cleverer than
most pop stars).

Happily, Will was such a triumph that, alongside him, certain other panellists
struggled: Nigel Farage of Ukip looked even more like a badly made sock puppet.
Theresa May looked exhausted, perhaps from dodging amusing "impromptu" snowball
fights with Tory leaders. Then there was Geoff Hoon who, slowly and stiffly,
seems to be morphing into the Professor Yaffle bookend from Bagpuss

By contrast, Young, clearly fresh from a deep-pore facial, accentuated points by
jabbing his pen in the air in the manner of some beauteous school-debating
society god. Better still, in reference to the culture of timidity at the BBC,
Will voiced his concern that everything had become a "bit vanilla".

Now please excuse me if I stop typing for a moment to scream and pull my handbag
up to my chest.

As you probably know, "vanilla" is a term often used to describe conventional,
unadventurous sex. (And yes, I do mean the sex you're probably having.) Such
raciness on Question Time . In Dunstable!

Is this a sign of things to come? If so, good job, sir.

Clearly, if Question Time panellists are going to have the likes of Will join
the ranks, they're going to have to up their game. Perhaps a seaweed wrap on the
day and the mastery of some languidly witty pansexual slang. David Dimbleby had
better send out the memo.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: Darling, Clarke and Cable in the cabinet? Don't rule it out:
Another disaster for Labour in this European elections, and the drums will beat
for a national emergency government

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1071 words


Not even his greatest admirer would claim that Sir Patrick Cormack is one of the
big beasts of the political jungle. But the pompous and long-serving
Conservative backbencher is neither a fool nor lobby fodder. On occasions he
says something that speaks to the mood of the moment in a way that eludes more
calculating and partisan politicians. This week at prime minister's questions
was one of them.

On the face of it, Cormack gave Gordon Brown one of his easier moments: would
Brown invite David Cameron and Nick Clegg to Downing Street to seek common
ground and national leadership on the economic crisis? Brown's practised
response was emphatic: that approach had been tried but had not worked; the
fault lay with the Tory party, which last autumn had offered co-operation one
week, only to withdraw it the next. If the Tories changed their mind again and
supported government policies, co-operation could resume.

In a House of Commons context this exchange was no contest. It recalled Neville
Cardus's remark about the cricketer Archie Maclaren and his ability as a batsman
to dismiss the ball from his presence. And yet, as the economic news gets ever
worse and as Labour's brief late-2008 poll recovery recedes into the memory, it
seems to me that Brown's show of Maclaren-style hauteur will look less and less
politically convincing, while the earnest, one-nation patriotism of Cormack and
MPs like him may become increasingly attractive.

No one thinks that Labour's ratings or Brown's personal standing are likely to
climb any time soon - if ever. At best, both are flatlining in current polling.
At worst, they could slide back towards the depths of last spring. The 2009
political calendar offers a few openings for ministers to take charge of the
agenda, such as the G20 London summit and, more significantly, the budget, out
of which a popular political leader might hope to conjure fresh support. But
these are overwhelmed by the overriding expectation of unremittingly destructive
economic news until well into 2010, and by the looming disaster for Labour of
the European elections on 4 June.

These elections will be the pivotal moment in domestic politics this year. From
Labour's point of view the only question now is how bad the results will be:
bad, very bad, extremely bad or catastrophic? In the two previous European
elections during Labour's rule, in 1999 and 2004, the voters have used such
contests to make a protest. Labour took only 27% of the vote in 1999 and 22%
five years later. In that sense, Labour has little to lose this time. It holds
only 19 of the UK's current 78 seats in the parliament - so is close to rock
bottom.

Yet it really could get even worse for Labour. In the month before the 1999
elections, Labour was on 51% in ICM's national opinion poll for the Guardian and
was then clobbered in the ballot box. In the month before the 2004 contest,
Labour was on 37% and got clobbered again. In each case more than a third of
Labour's supporters deserted the party in the European contest. If Labour slips
under 30% in the polls by May 2009, and if the desertion rate is of the same
order this time - both of which are realistic possibilities - we can expect the
party's share of the vote in this year's European contest to fall into the teens
for the first time ever in any nationwide electoral contest. With a general
election no more than a year off, that result will immediately push the panic
button.

But it won't just be the size of the defeat that will have that effect. It will
also be the quality of it. In both 1999 and 2004 it was possible for Labour to
brush off the scale of its reverses by citing its continuing strength in the
polls and by pointing to the damage that Ukip and the Liberal Democrats were
continuing to inflict on the Tories. This time, however, the Tories look set to
make significant gains, while Labour also faces the prospect of a large
electoral spike for the BNP - who may win several European seats - among some of
its hitherto core support.

For all these reasons it seems highly probable to me that the political mood in
the week following the European elections will be dominated by two questions.
The first, grindingly familiar, will be whether Brown can continue as leader in
a general election that may threaten Labour's survival as a national party. The
second, a phenomenon not known in British politics since the days of Oswald
Mosley, will be the lurching fear that a rightwing nationalist and protectionist
upsurge, driven by economic hardship and anti-foreigner feeling, threatens the
stability of the whole political system.

What happens after that? Experience says that Brown, his authority further
undermined, will nevertheless hang on, because that's what happens and because
there is no plausible challenger who could turn things round for his party in
the available time. Experience also says that the political class, including the
press, will draw its wagons together to ostracise the BNP, while at the same
time the parties themselves, especially Labour, wrestle conscience and
self-interest as they struggle to find protectionist strategies to reclaim the
working-class nationalist vote.

Yet experience says a third thing as well. It says that, amid steepling economic
decline and haemorrhaging governmental weakness, pressure for some kind of
government of national unity can only grow. Right now, the only people who talk
in such terms are backbench mavericks such as Cormack and Labour's Frank Field -
and in Field's party Ramsay MacDonald still casts a long shadow. In six months'
time, though, advocates of a genuine government of all the talents - an economic
national emergency cabinet including Alistair Darling, Ken Clarke and Vince
Cable - may suddenly find themselves with an audience.

By then, the momentum of events - together with increasing calls for the Brown
government to go, for the BNP to be resisted and for the economy to be saved -
could have put a national government on the agenda. Only this week, a shadow
cabinet minister told me, half jokingly, that the Tories could never serve under
Brown but might, for the good of the country, be compelled to serve under some
other Labour leader. After all, if a grand coalition can work for Germany, why
is it so unimaginable here? No, I don't think it will really happen either, but
these are new times and I no longer rule it out as I once did.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

National: News: Watch out Will - people might just take you seriously

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 456 words


A warning for pop singers with aspirations beyond performing love songs at
Plymouth Pavilions: be careful what you wish for.

One day you're telling a radio presenter how much you'd love to appear on
Question Time, a few months later you're fighting your way through freezing fog
and several inches of snow in Dunstable to go mano a mano with Nigel Farage,
leader of Ukip, over the scale of British complicity in torture.

More treacherously yet, as the singer Will Young, right, discovered last night,
you can find yourself out-cheered. Dunstable was certainly excited to see Young
who, since winning Pop Idol in 2002, has released four albums and twice been
voted Britain's all-time favourite performer, but not quite as excited, judging
by her welcome, as it was by Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty. What value
those eight Brit nominations now, Will?

Also sparring, under the supervision of David Dimbleby, were the shadow work and
pensions secretary Theresa May and Geoff Hoon who, as transport secretary, was
responsible for keeping the M1 clear of snow long enough for his ministerial car
to make it.

Young, who has a 2:2 in politics from Exeter University, has long sought to cast
himself as a different kind of popstar, quoting Marx and Walter Benjamin in
interviews.

He might be characterised as the Graham Le Saux of pop, fortunate to work in an
industry of which expectations are so low that the ability to use an adverb
earns one the status of a Nobel prizewinner. But how would he fare in a grilling
from Dunstable? They started gently. Had Britain's failure to get to work due to
the snow made us an international laughing stock? No, said Hoon. Kind of, said
May, since councils were running out of salt. "Simply a nonsense!" said Farage.

Young, though, was "saddened" by the question, referring to a blissful day spent
in the Cornish snow with his brother, who had commented how wonderful it was
that people "could unite over something other than fear". Britain had become a
"blameocracy", he said, which "really angered" him. "This is snow, it's not
something we can control."

But was the BBC over-zealous in terminating its relationship with Carol
Thatcher? On this Young found himself at some distance from most of his fellow
panellists, bemoaning a "culture of timidity" at the BBC. "I worry because
everything is becoming a little bit vanilla," he said. "People are scared of
doing anything."

Not Farage. What about Jonathan Ross, he asked. "And it's not just him - it's
Chris Moyles. It seems you can be vulgar and can be gross, you can offend
millions of people and that's OK."

Young will soon have the opportunity to do just that. On Monday he will
pre-record an appearance on Ross's TV show. Expect anything but vanilla.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                February 6, 2009

Ministers scrap plans to block wealthy donors' spending in marginal seats

LENGTH: 755 words



HIGHLIGHT: Climbdown signalled in amendment that scraps planned 'trigger' on
campaign spending


Ministers have abandoned plans to block wealthy Tory donors such as Lord
Ashcroft from spending huge sums of money between general elections in marginal
seats.

The climbdown has been signalled in a government amendment to the political
parties and elections bill, which scraps a planned "trigger" that would have
meant that the moment a candidate was adopted all their campaign spending would
have been subject to restrictions. The Guardian understands ministers have been
warned that the rules would be very difficult to police.

In its place the government has set a date - 55 months after the new parliament
first sits - when new restrictions set at £25,000 per candidate per constituency
will apply for the remainder of the parliament (up to six months later).

If the election is held, as it is often is, less than 55 months after the last
one, the £25,000 limit will kick in only once the election is called.

The figure is more than double the present limit of £12,000, which applies from
the moment a general election is called, normally around a month before polling
day.

If it goes through as the government proposes, the measure will only come into
force if Gordon Brown decides not to call an election until the last moment,
June next year, when it would start on New Year's Day.

The decision is a remarkable change of heart by Jack Straw, the justice
secretary, who promised that the new restrictions would apply retrospectively
from when the bill received its second reading, which took place last autumn.

A Ministry of Justice briefing sent to Labour MPs at the time said: "The
government's new rules would see a return to a system of 'triggering', whereby
an individual's expenses would be classed as election expenses the moment his or
her party officially promotes them as their candidate - on leaflets or [in] the
media."

Labour has been under pressure from party activists to introduce strict curbs
after a cartel headed by three donors - Lord Ashcroft, the Conservatives' deputy
chairman, Lord Steinberg, the chairman of casino group Stanley Leisure, and
Robert Edmiston, head of the Midlands Industrial Council - combined to bypass
Conservative headquarters and directly fund 50 constituency associations to the
tune of £2m in the run-up to the last election. Ashcroft has been spending
sizeable sums in this parliament, too.

But the Tories were furious about the proposed new curbs, insisting that
donations and not spending should be capped.

The plans were also attacked by the independent watchdog, the Electoral
Commision, which warned against rushing them in before the next election and
before they could issue proper guidance. And they were also facing the prospect
of existing Labour MPs, a number of whom receive donations worth £10,000-£12,000
from big unions such as GMB and Unite, being curbed by the rules, which would
have defeated the object.

Straw is understood to want to return to "consensus politics" with the other
major parties and reach a deal that would be backed by everyone.

But yesterday the measure looked like being greeted with anger by some Tories
and Labour backbenchers.

John Mann, the Labour MP for Bassetlaw, said: "This is a very weak proposal
which amounts to pandering to the Tories and is probably caused by the
government fearing it will be defeated by the unelected House of Lords.

"It is totally undemocratic for a wealthy individual like Lord Ashcroft to be
able to give unlimited funds to constituencies he has probably never visit. I
think there will be opposition to this from Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs."

Andrew Tyrie, the Conservatives' spokesman on party funding, said: "This is
another embarrassing U-turn by Labour. It smacks of desperation when they try to
rig campaigning rules. But these tactics have now backfired.

"It was quite clear these proposals would have been damaging to the democratic
process, hindering proper debate and public scrutiny. We need reform, but
fiddling the rules is not the way forward. A comprehensive cap on donations,
covering companies, individuals and the unions, would do far more to restore
trust and clean up politics. This is the only way to restore the public's
confidence, by ensuring that access, influence and honours are not bought for
cash."

Two MPs, Andrew MacKinlay, the Labour MP for Thurrock, and Bob Spink, the Ukip
MP for Castle Point, have tabled a joint amendment to the bill urging that the
spending restrictions come into force after 50 months, five months earlier,
bringing the new law into force from September this year.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                February 6, 2009

Will Young on Question Time: A good deal more interesting than Geoff Hoon

LENGTH: 559 words



HIGHLIGHT: Heidi Stephens: Although he was clearly nervous, the Pop Idol winner
had a certain charm and acquitted himself well on highbrow talk show


Before we start, I'd just like to get something off my chest. My name is Heidi
Stephens, and I only watched last night's BBC Question Time because Will Young
was on it.

There, I've said it. Ooh, that does feel better.

See, as a rule I'm not a Question Time kind of girl - not only is it on way past
my bedtime, but also I've always imagined it to be little more than an hour of
smuggery-pokery from a bunch of disingenuous politicians talking over each other
and avoiding the question. Perhaps I have been missing out all these years.

Anyway, this week, live from Dunstable, pop idol/actor/jolly nice chap Will
Young joined the panel, alongside Conservative shadow minister Theresa May
(something to do with pensions), Shami Chakrabarti of Liberty (note to self: the
human rights organisation, not the retail emporium), transport secretary Geoff
Hoon (aka Runway Geoff) and Ukip's Nigel Farage (never heard of him, but the
weakest chin I've ever seen).

So why Will Young? Well the story goes that he expressed his interest in being
on the show last October while being interviewed on Radio 5 Live, and Question
Time were more than happy to oblige. But also he has a 2:2 in politics from
Exeter (tick), and appears a good deal more articulate than your average
Heat-bothering reality TV fodder (tick). And he's gay. And easy on the eye. And
young people like him (tick tick tick). A shameless ploy on the part of the BBC
to drum up some PR and pull in some new viewers? Whatever. I'm right there,
baby.

So, having sat through my very first Question Time, I have discovered that they
DO talk over each other incessantly and avoid the question, so am vindicated in
this department. But I also have another issue - in an internet age, surely all
these subjects have been debated to death by the time Question Time gets round
to it? When a member of the audience asks whether our failure to keep our roads
open in the snow makes us a national laughing stock I KNOW what the government's
argument is going to be, and I know what stick the opposition will use to beat
them with, because I've been reading/hearing about it all week. And I don't even
pay that much attention.

And so we passed the time with a game in my house of "What will Will say?" -
will he agree with Runway Geoff on the ridiculousness of investing in
snowploughs when it only snows properly once in a blue moon ? Yes. Will he argue
with Theresa May about Carol Thatcher's faux pas? Yes, and he'll be the only one
who thinks it should have been handled as a private matter, and will sink lower
and lower in his chair as everyone else bangs on about what an offensive old bat
she is. And how will he respond on the wildcat strikes over British jobs for
British people? (He is worried about waiters).

And do you know what? He did OK. He was clearly nervous, and wittered on in
places and struggled to gather his thoughts in others, but he had a certain
charm and it was not a car crash. He's a good deal more interesting to watch
than Geoff and Nigel, anyway.

Next week, Question Time is right here in my home city of Bath, in a venue about
100 yards from my front door, as it happens. Will I be applying for a ticket?
Well, no, because Monty Don is the celebrity guest and frankly, despite his
gardening expertise, he doesn't float my boat NEARLY as much as Will Young.

I think I'd better leave right now.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Overturn the barricades: Free movement of labour makes
economic and moral sense. Without it the EU would unravel

BYLINE: Philippe Legrain

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 623 words


The economy is shrinking, unemployment is soaring, insecurity is rife - no
wonder people are angry. As wildcat strikes against foreign workers spread
across Britain, people who fear for their own jobs may feel sympathetic. But
however understandable the strikers' emotions may be, they have got it all
wrong.

Foreign workers are not responsible for the mess we're in; the financial crisis
is. Blame bankers (British and foreign), finger blase regulators and blinkered
politicians, spread responsibility among everyone who piled on debt and gambled
on house prices - but don't scapegoat Italian oil workers.

Nor would kicking out foreign workers create more jobs for British people. The
notion that there is a fixed number of jobs to go around is a nonsense. Workers
(foreign or otherwise) not only take jobs, they also create them. Gordon Brown
should have known better than to legitimise the old National Front canard of
"British jobs for British workers" in his 2007 conference speech. He should eat
his words.

Fewer foreigners around would mean even less spending in the shops, and so cost
British people their jobs. Chucking foreign employees out would cause further
dislocation to businesses already struggling with shrivelled credit and
collapsing demand. It would play havoc with public services, depriving patients
of doctors and nurses, the elderly of carers, and children of teachers. It would
plunge the economy into an even bigger hole - and we'd end up with fewer jobs
for British people, not more.

Let's be clear: if British workers are being discriminated against in Lindsey or
elsewhere, that is unacceptable. It would be a breach of both British and EU
law. But there is no evidence of that. What the strikers appear to want is that
foreign workers be discriminated against - and that too is unacceptable.

The free movement of labour is not only economically beneficial and morally
right, it is a legal requirement of EU membership. If Britain were to
discriminate against other European workers, what is to stop other EU countries
discriminating against British ones? Some 2 million Brits are thought to work in
another EU country - do we want to put their jobs at risk too?

During the boom years when the pound was overvalued, Britain attracted workers
from around the EU. But with the UK economy now predicted to be hardest hit by
the global recession, Brits may feel tempted to seek work on the continent.
That's what happened when unemployment reached 3 million in the 1980s, as
workers similar to the brickies who featured in Auf Wiedersehen, Pet sought work
in Germany and elsewhere.

Pundits and politicians are forever intoning that we must not fall prey to
protectionism. Barricading ourselves off from outsiders leads not to salvation,
but to economic depression and political extremism. That's one reason why the
EU, with its single market, impartial regulations and common political
institutions, is so important. Reverting to a policy of each to his own,
beggar-thy-neighbour, and devil take the hindmost, would cause the EU to
unravel.

That would delight Europhobic Tories, Ukip, the BNP, MigrationWatch and a host
of rancid fellow-travellers. But the trade union and wider Labour movement
should have no truck with it. Solidarity does not stop at the water's edge. The
EU is a champion of workers' rights. And if the flaws of financial globalisation
are to be fixed - and climate change curbed - it will be in partnership with
Europe, not against it.

Now of all times Derek Simpson, John Cruddas and others on the left should not
be making common cause with what Peter Mandelson has rightly called "the
politics of xenophobia".

Philippe Legrain is the author of Immigrants: Your Country Needs Them

mail@philippelegrain.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: commentisfree ...

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 103 words


Instead of following the Daily Mail-Tory-Ukip line that Britain needs less
Europe, we should be saying out loud that a vote for Labour can help deliver
policies that will defend workers' interests. It's over to Unite and other
unions to put their weight behind a campaign to deliver core Labour votes for
our European parliament candidates in June. If they do not, and if Labour
ministers and MPs continue to regard the EU as something best not mentioned in
decent political company, then do not be surprised if the
nationalist-protectionist rhetoric gets worse while workers' rights get weaker.

guardian.co.uk/commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                February 3, 2009

Beware the European street

LENGTH: 1081 words



HIGHLIGHT: As unemployment rises across Europe, we can expect a widespread
return to the picket line


One of the unofficial strikers who have wrong-footed the government over the
foreign worker issue this past week was quoted the other day as saying he was
standing up for "the rights of the British working class."

That's a phrase we used to hear a lot in decades of trade union militancy. Not
so much lately. Is the sentiment on the way back as the recession threatens jobs
and security? If so, what form will it take?

Peter Mandelson warns against xenophobia, well aware that British trade union
leaders are likely to recoil from any hint of pandering to the BNP, Ukip or
other rightwing movements, even if some of the rank and file are likely to be
less fastidious. Dagenham MP Jon Cruddas has been banging on about this for
several years.

So Mandelson's reflex response (remember, he is being "paid by foreigners" in
the shape of his EU Commission pension, says a Ukip statement) is wrong, just as
Polly Toynbee is right to say that Gordon Brown's "globalisation is good" mantra
demonstrates his tin ear in a crisis like this one.

Brown's "British jobs for British workers" soundbite at the 2007 Labour
conference ( I recall being told he'd mangled it at the time) is wrapped round
his neck - as it should be - though he was talking about raising the skills base
- where he has consistently tried to raise standards. That doesn't cut much ice
on the freezing picket line.

So, provided the striking workers at Total's Lindsey refinery in Lincolnshire,
at the Grangemouth oil refinery near Falkirk and now among engineers at
Sellafield in Cumbria don't actually attack the foreign workers in their areas,
they are entitled to ask pertinent questions about who gets employed - and why.

They may or may not have their facts right, but they deserve proper answers.

It matters particularly in Sellafield because they hope to revive the flagging
local economy by helping build new nuclear plants - and want most of the jobs to
go to their own pool of skilled workers. I realise that raises different issues,
but let's not go there today.

As the Guardian points out this morning - and Labour ex-ministers like Peter
Hain, Ian McCartney and Frank Field did in the Commons yesterday - the European
Court of Justice has stretched the 1996 EU posted workers directive (it makes
them sound like stamped bits of mail) by declaring that only the local minimum
wage rate need apply to workers brought in from outside.

In wealthier EU states that invariably means that negotiated local pay rates on
the ground can be undercut, as John Monks, eminently sensible ex-TUC chief, now
head of the European trade union movement (Etuc), explained on Radio 4 this
morning. You can see why it makes angry and anxious men protest in freezing
weather.

German building unions used to complain on this very point when British brickies
and plumbers ("UK plumbers" as the BBC now seems to put it) were flooding in -
the subject of the Auf Wiedersehen Pet sitcom.

Globalisers rightly counter that 1.5 million Brits live in the EU, though the
ippr thinktank's stats admit that 155,000 are pensioners, many others are
students or not working, so that only half are doing what Lord Mandelson said
they are - exercising their right to enjoy the EU's free movement of labour.

In any case, it's not that free. Only Britain and Ireland gave immediate right
of access to the new EU accession states of 2004 - notably Poland - with the
predictable (though not predicted) result that they flooded in, 234,730 in the
peak year of 2006. Labour's policy was lucky not to provoke a more serious
political backlash than it did. Perhaps it was merely delayed.

But this is how an open market is meant to work, and Krys the Polish plumber did
some work for us, though he has now gone home - as work dried up and the pound
tumbled against the zloty. In France, where "Polish plumber" became dirty words,
Krys would not have been allowed in. French plumbers protect their market and
French consumers pay.

Irem, the Italian firm working at Lindsey, protests that it has hired 22 British
workers alongside its 80 Italian "specialists." Even Etuc's John Monks spotted
12 British electricians installing a lift in a Brussels pub the other evening.
The Daily Mail counters that "nearly a third" of those employed on the Olympic
site in east London are foreigners of one kind or another, notably Indians for
some reason.

As with tax regimes and tax avoidance - the subject of this week's Guardian
special reports - it's all about rough and ready fairness. Britain runs a
relatively open economy with consequent benefits and disadvantages that affect
different people differently; some EU states instinctively go the other way,
also with good and bad results.

"How can I compete against six Poles sleeping in the back of a van?" a
electrician in Wales told me last year. "How can my unskilled constituents
compete for jobs with bilingual, highly-motivated east Europeans?" said a Labour
MP in Glasgow. By raising skills and aspirations is the answer - plus a prod in
some cases from the DWP - but it's never easy, harder still in a deepening
recession.

Euro-federalists say the answer lies in deeper integration and uniformity. But
history and contemporary events show how hard that approach would be to
implement, even if desirable. We may be all the same, but we're all different
too.

In this instance Alan Johnson, union leader turned health secretary, was surely
right - and Mandelson wrong - when he suggested that the ECJ rulings should be
looked at again by the commission to prevent elementary unfairness if that is
what the Acas inquiry confirms at Lindsey.

If not, as unemployment rises, we can expect a widespread return to the picket
line, possibly uglier than in the past, not because unions are strong, but
because they are weaker. Evidence is plentiful that the old trade union rhetoric
of struggle as easily borrowed by the right as by the new left.

So Labour MP Denis MacShane made a neat point in a Newsweek article this week
when he reminded readers that the familiar warning to keep an ear close to the
"Arab street" - mass public opinion in the Middle East - is now creeping into
Europe.

Demonstrations and fights with police are growing from Riga and Vilnius in the
east to France and Spain in the west, and, of course, throughout Greece in the
South. Now the British north is showing its anger and the new left - Die Linke -
is the fastest growing party in Merkel's coalition Germany.

MacShane's article is entitled Beware the European Street.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                February 3, 2009

Mandy's tough talk makes matters worse

LENGTH: 716 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mark Seddon: Instead of condemning wildcat strikers, Peter Mandelson
should examine exactly what lies behind their anger


Labour's unofficial deputy leader, Lord Mandelson, is talking tough. His
no-nonsense message to workers involved in the rash of wildcat strikes outside
refineries and power stations across the country maybe having an effect - but
not the desired one.

If some commentators evoke the spirit of the 1970s - a grim, grey period of
rising unemployment, strikers rubbing their hands around braziers and three-day
weeks - Lord Mandelson is beginning to remind me of that 1980s figure Lord
Tebbit, who famously called upon unemployed workers to "get on their bikes" and
go find work. For his part Mandelson suggests that out of work construction
workers could go find jobs in Europe - in other words "get in their Ford Focus
cars" and get across the Channel.

Given that many of the workers now involved in wildcat action form part of
Labour's natural constituency, albeit an increasingly shaky one, it might make
sense to examine, for a moment, what lies behind this eruption of anger, an
eruption that has occurred independently of the trade unions, and one that has
the potential of turning very nasty unless handled in a more delicate and
understanding way than has been the case so far.

While the BNP, the UK Independence party and some excitable journalists have
billed the strikes as "aimed at foreign workers", the beginnings of this dispute
against casualisation and undercutting existing agreements between employers and
workers, began back in mid-November at the Lindsey oil refinery. Local
construction workers were informed by their shop stewards that an Italian
company, IREM, had been awarded a contract at the plant, that the company would
be bringing in its own workforce and bussing them in from floating barges in
Grimsby Docks. The National Agreement for the Engineering and Construction
Industry covers UK workers at Lindsey - and other sites. While IREM has claimed
that its imported workforce is paid at the same rate as the laid-off UK workers,
the Portuguese and Italian workers are, according to the GMB union, working
longer hours.

No dispute of this magnitude happens without very good reason and without a very
real sense of grievance. Once the Lindsey workers heard that another company,
Alstom were also refusing to hire local labour, instead bringing in Spanish and
Portuguese workers at Staythorpe Power Station, the blue touch paper was lit.
Striking workers and their unions claim that it is the employers who are
"playing nationality off against nationality" in a bid to break the national
agreement. For good measure, the GMB has tried to warn off far right groups
hoping to milk the dispute for their own ends, saying: "The BNP should take
heed, UK construction workers will not tolerate another racist attempt to sever
fraternal relations with workers from other nations."

Some ministers and many MPs do understand what is at stake, and appreciate the
real sense of injustice felt by many of the strikers, and would like to block
off the loophole being exploited by some of the more notorious construction and
engineering companies.

They had better move fast. For comparisons between the strike-bound Britain of
the 1970s and today's wildcat action are wildly misplaced. Back then, the trade
unions were organised and powerful, and while the National Front was able to
capitalise on anti-immigrant feeling in some cities, there was a discipline and
a political framework to what was happening on the picket lines. Today's
strikers appear to be acting out of desperation, largely independent of the
unions. Their target could be the casualisation caused by globalisation. Today,
the Labour party and the trade unions are far weaker on the ground, and the far
right is exploiting a political vacuum.

Lord Mandelson's condemnation of the strikers is a doubly bitter pill for many
of them to swallow, as they watch the bankers, the brokers, the offshore tax
avoiders and the super-rich, handled with kid gloves. No stern lectures from
government ministers for those who have brought the world economy to its knees,
let alone sanctions or jobs forfeited.

This crazy, upside-down world, where those who have taken wealth without
creating it, are feather bedded, while those who do create wealth, but have
little to show for it, face the full force of the law, is now truly explosive.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Our leaders must make the case for economic liberalism;
LEADING ARTICLE Condemning these strikes is only half of the task before them

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 584 words


The wildcat strikes by employees of the energy sector went nuclear yesterday.
Workers at the Sellafield and Heysham nuclear plants walked out, joining the
thousands who have been protesting since last week against the decision of the
French oil company, Total, to award a contract to a firm bringing in foreign
workers to its Lincolnshire refinery.

The protests might be gathering strength, but the case of the protesters seems
bereft of merit. Acas is brokering talks between Total and the unions, but no
evidence of wage undercutting by the foreign workers or discrimination against
British labour in the awarding of the contract has emerged. These protests would
seem, then, to be howl of misguided rage from construction workers worried about
the security of their jobs.

It is, of course, no surprise that emotions are running high. And construction
has been hit particularly hard by the recession. But it is the general slowdown,
not imported foreign labour, that is responsible for the threat to jobs in this
country. These protesters have chosen the wrong target for their frustration.

Economic insecurity and xenophobia make for a dangerously combustible political
mix. It is no surprise that a populist gadfly such as Nigel Farage of Ukip has
sought to exploit the crisis to further his party's anti-EU agenda. But it is
disappointing that Alan Johnson, a senior member of the Government, has pandered
to the strikers by suggesting European employment law might need to be revised.

Thankfully Mr Johnson has, so far, been an isolated voice. Gordon Brown and
Peter Mandelson have been resolute in defending the single EU labour market,
although the crass stupidity of the Prime Minister's "British jobs for British
workers" sound bite in 2007 is now beyond doubt. Nick Clegg for the Liberal
Democrats and Ken Clarke for the Conservatives have also, wisely, refused to
play the populist card.

Yet there is a duty on our political leaders to do considerably more than
distance themselves from these strikes. What these protests demonstrate is that
there remains a worrying level of ignorance in parts of the country about just
how vital European economic integration has been in delivering prosperity to
Britain. The leaders of all our major political parties need to make the
argument very clearly for continued liberal trade and the free movement of
labour throughout the European continent, indeed the world. They need to explain
that the alternative is not prosperity, but penury.

Protectionism does not stimulate domestic economies. Nor does it even protect
jobs, since economic demand shrinks behind hastily erected national barriers.
That is the overwhelming lesson of the 1930s when tariff barriers were erected
between nations in the face of a similar global economic slump.

Those sympathetic to the refinery strikers should also consider the consequences
if our European partners adopted the policy these protesters are wishing on our
Government. Do they really want to see the estimated 1.5 million Britons, who
have taken the opportunity offered by EU membership to work on the Continent,
forced to return home? That is the nightmare scenario we are facing if one
nation starts to unpick the fabric of the EU agreements on labour movement.

These are disconcertingly uncertain economic times. And the political stakes are
high. Now is the time for all responsible politicians to stand up unequivocally
for the economic liberalism that will, given time, deliver us from these present
difficulties.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Toxic mix of unemployment and immigration

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 448 words


Immigration and foreign workers, trade union rights, sharply rising
unemployment, and the European Union add up to a toxic combination. The dispute
at the Lindsey oil refinery in Lincolnshire touches raw nerves over
globalisation versus economic nationalism, presenting problems, obviously for
the Government, but also for the Opposition.

The starting point is the free movement of labour within the EU, which is
accepted by all main parties. There are as many potential benefits for many
British workers in other EU countries as there are for other EU workers coming
to Britain.

EU law lays down that terms of employment should not discriminate between
domestic workers and those from the rest of the EU. Yet the EU Posted Workers'
Directive, as reinforced by the Laval case at the European Court of Justice, has
only required employers to pay the rate in the country from which foreign
workers come, provided that this matches minimum wages and conditions of the
host country. In the case of most wealthier EU members, such as Britain,
prevailing rates of pay are above these minimum levels.

The striking workers and unions complain about undercutting of British rates by
a subcontractor importing Italian and Portuguese labour at low rates. Acas is
now investigating these claims. But, in more forthright terms than other
ministers, Lord Mandelson has highlighted a statement by Total, which runs the
refinery, that subcontractors are observing collectively negotiated local rates
and are not discriminating against British workers (a large majority of those at
Lindsey).

Lord Mandelson has robustly defended a free, EU-wide labour market. That is a
crucial test of EU membership and of the embrace of globalisation by new Labour.

The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats essentially agree on the economic
issues, and have instead focused their attacks on Gordon Brown's ill-chosen
populist remarks in the autumn of 2007 about "British jobs for British workers".
This phrase is being presented, and was probably always meant, as ensuring that
British workers had sufficient skills and training to compete internationally,
but it has rebounded on him as it is brandished by the wildcat strikers. This
has complicated ministers' task.

The dispute poses a problem for the mainstream political class in its support
for economic liberalisation when hundreds of thousands of jobs are threatened.
An opening has been provided for left-wing critics of free markets and for the
nationalist Right in the shape of the British National Party and the UK
Independence Party. Ministers need to reassure British workers that they are
being treated fairly without fuelling self-destructive economic nationalism.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Applaud smokers' fightback against state prohibition;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Pat Nurse

SECTION: LEADER TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 26

LENGTH: 859  words


THE FIRST international antiprohibition conference was held in Brussels last
week where people from around the world came to register opposition to smoking
bans and other moves to control our lifestyles.

Smokers are leading the fightback against the puritans they believe have made
them social outcasts. They feel they must raise the issue before the overweight
and those who like a tipple find themselves subject to the same social
exclusion.

This conference was concerned with choice, the right to control your own body
and why it is dangerous to give that essential freedom to the State.

I expected tobacco executives and coughing and spluttering delegates but I found
a healthy group of British workingclass people in despair. They believe Big
Government, aided by Big Business and Big Charity, is taking control of their
lives and making them miserable.

They intended to meet in the European Parliament building in Brussels but
because of an objection from a smoke-free organisation the event was banned,
leaving organisers the International Coalition Against Prohibition having to
find an alternative venue just days before delegates were due to arrive.

Furious host Godfrey Bloom, the UK Independence Party MEP, told delegates it was
disgraceful that freedom of speech could be infringed by an unelected
organisation with no interest in debate.

Ironically a later tour of the EU building ended with smokers gathering in his
office. MEPs can smoke at work and there are places for smokers in the building.

Bizarrely, it would seem that smoking is permitted in the centre of European
democracy but talking about it is not.

"That is because there is one rule for me and other MEPs and another for the
rest of you, " said Bloom. "TheEU is democracy by à la carte menu but you simply
cannot pick and choose which parts you support and which you don't."

There were scurrilous allegations that delegates were somehow funded or
supported by the tobacco industry, a claim that didn't go down well with the
pensioners, shop assistants, bar staff, plumbers and factory workers who paid
for the trip out of their own pockets because they are seriously disturbed at
the danger of the march of prohibition.

Just as Twenties' prohibition in the US led to an increase in alcohol intake, it
would seem the puritanical stance on smoking in public that led to the smoking
ban has led to a rise in the number of people taking up the habit. Big Tobacco
has no interest in the plight of consumers.

Smoking bans are very good for business.

During the conference I didn't hear one word about promoting smoking. Indeed
there was a discussion about what could be done to turn young people away from
it.

Dr John Luik, joint author of Diet Nation: Exposing The Obesity Crusade, said
perhaps a more persuasive message to reduce youth smoking would be: "Warning:
your parents think smoking is cool."

The alleged scientific evidence used to justify smoking bans was put into
context and author Christopher Snowdon discussed the funding of charities such
as ASH, the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK and the WHO. Serious
questions must be asked about the impartiality of any organisations that receive
funds from pharmaceutical companies.

British pensioner Barry Connaughton told of his efforts to turn the tide of
hatred away from smokers. From his limited funds he has printed leaflets and
walked the streets of his home town day after day in a bid to spread the message
that smoking bans are killing pubs and working men's clubs and isolating people
who don't deserve to be excluded in this way.

University of Amsterdam Psychophysiologist Dr Jan Snel explained how smoking
bans can damage mental health, cause depression and lead to suicide.

Economist Barrie Craven told of the devastation in the hospitality industry. He
said smoking bans discriminated against the working class because traditional
meeting places such as bingo halls and working men's clubs faced huge culls.

Prohibitionists are now moving on to attack those who drink alcohol and those
called clinically obese. It was the passive smoking argument that led to the
smoking ban. We now hear of passive drinking and lately, from America, passive
obesity.

MARYETTA ABLES from the US said this latest concept was quickly gaining
credence. "They say people who have an obese friend are more likely to become
obese themselves as a result.".

I am a smoker, I have smoked for years and acknowledge that it can damage health
but like millions of others I resent the growing power of the prohibitionists.

I have no problem with prohibiting smoking in public spaces but it is the wa y
the ban is enforced that worries me.

This conference was the first sign that ordinary people are demanding an end to
state bullying. British delegates were mostly former Labour supporters who feel
abandoned by the party. They and 12million British smokers are looking at who
deserves their votes at the next election.

Meanwhile, they were delighted to find smoking allowed in most places in
Brussels, which treated them warmly, welcomed them inside and gave them an
opportunity to have a great time sociall y for the first time since July 1,
2007.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFIANT: Smokers are persecuted but drinkers and the obese may be next

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
