
                               1 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday

DIARY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1167 words


DIANA'S GHOST HAUNTS NIECE'S TRIP TO PARIS

TWELVE years after her aunt Princess Diana died in a car crash in Paris, Lady
Kitty Spencer has attended a high-profile engagement in the French capital for
the first time.

However, I learn that the trip proved more traumatic than expected for Earl
Spencer's eldest daughter.

Brought up in South Africa with her mother and three siblings, Kitty, 18,
accepted an invitation to the glamorous debutante ball over the weekend at the
Hotel de Crillon on La Place De La Concorde.

As one of only a score of girls selected to 'come out' at the annual society
event, Kitty knew she would be in the spotlight. But she clearly did not expect
to be quizzed about her feelings at being in the city where her aunt died in
August 1997.

Kitty, a stunning blonde who has been reading psychology and politics at
university in Cape Town, where her mother Victoria made a new life for herself,
went to the gala with author Kathy Lette's equally beautiful daughter, Georgie.

Also among the 'debs' were the daughters of Hollywood stars Forest Whitaker and
Clint Eastwood -- Autumn Whitaker, 18, and Francesca Eastwood, 17.

All went swimmingly until members of the French print and TV corps, who had been
invited to cover the gala event, pressed Kitty about the Princess of Wales. This
caused her considerable distress and prompted immediate support from the other
girls, who formed a protective phalanx around her, I am told.

Later, as she left the ball to go on to a nightclub, friends again formed a
circle around her to prevent her photograph being taken.

Says Autumn's mother, actress Keisha Whitaker: 'She got rather upset by the
local journalists at the party. It ruined her evening.'

The events in Paris will infuriate Kitty's father, who has warned his daughter
of the dangers of being in the public eye. At a party in Soho only last week,
she told me: 'I'm trying to ignore all sorts of worries my father is putting my
way about the hounding I might get from paparazzi.'

Spencer's concerns arose because Kitty wants to move to England.

'It's no secret that living here has always been a dream of mine. Now that I've
grown up a little bit, I desperately want to be where the action is,' she says.
'I'd like to switch my university course to one over here in England, perhaps
Bristol.'

Let's hope her experience in Paris will not prompt a change of heart.

'QUEEN THOUGHT CHARLES WOULD NOT RE-MARRY IN HER LIFETIME'

AS ONE of the most senior courtiers at Buckingham Palace, Mary Francis was a key
figure as Prince Charles sought to win public acceptance to make Camilla Parker
Bowles his wife.

Mrs Francis, 61, the Queen's deputy private secretary, has now revealed that Her
Majesty thought Charles would never marry the divorced Mrs Parker Bowles while
she was alive.

She also says that there were serious 'tensions' between Buckingham Palace and
Charles's office at St James's Palace over the public-relations operation to
bring Camilla out of the shadows.

In a Channel 4 documentary to be broadcast this week, Mrs Francis -- who was at
the Palace for much of the Nineties -- says: 'The Queen didn't talk about it
very much, but the impression I had was that she didn't really expect there
would be a wedding [between Charles and Camilla] within her own lifetime.'

Cambridge-educated Mrs Francis -- who now sits on the board of a number of
leading companies -- is the most senior former royal aide to go on record about
the marriage crisis.

The programme also discloses how the Queen at first refused to allow Camilla to
attend the Queen Mother's funeral in 2002. But a deal was struck in which the
then Mrs Parker Bowles was invited not as Charles's girlfriend, but as a 'friend
of the Queen Mother'.

WHAT do you give the man who has everything? The X Factor judge Dannii Minogue
has the answer -- cigarettes. Dannii tells me she has just given
multi-millionaire pal Simon Cowell a sixmonth-supply of his favourite foreign
fags, which had to be imported via Harrods.

'The ciggies are very distinctive -- green, long and thin with menthol in them.
He loves them,' says Dannii at a Christmas party in aid of the Terrence Higgins
Trust, for which she is an ambassador.

So how did Cowell respond to her generosity? Says Dannii: 'He shrieked: "Are you
trying to kill me!" '

RACING LUCK FOR LLOYD WEBBERS

WITH Lord Lloyd-Webber recovering from a prostate cancer operation and a
subsequent infection, his teenage daughter Isabella was cheered by a stroke of
good fortune at the Hennessy Gold Cup at Newbury at the weekend.

Isabella, 13, placed a wager on Hey Big Spender in the second race and was
whooping in the Royal Box as her horse romped home.

Explains her mother Madeleine, who had the disappointment of her horse,
Darkness, becoming lame and missing the big race: 'The bet was only 62 each way,
but it cheered Bella up. Andrew was due to come with us, but in the end he
stayed at home. But he's on the mend.'

Meanwhile, at the Royal Box occupied by Hennessy's VIP guests, there were sighs
that only Hennessy cocktails and not champagne were served despite the company
owning Moet.

Former TV star Cilla Black declined all offers of brandy, insisting she drinks
only champagne.

Explains a waitress: 'We had to find her a champagne flute and pour it
discreetly behind the bar so other guests wouldn't spot the bubbly and ask for
some as well.'

HIRSUTE MP Frank Dobson has been chosen by the Beard Liberation Front as
champion for their campaign for real Santas, which advocates that only Father
Christmases with genuine beards should be allowed to hand out presents this
year. They even suggest that children should be encouraged to tug at Santa's
beard to check its authenticity. So, what does Dobson think? 'When I was Health
Secretary, I went to the children's ward at the Royal London Hospital on
Christmas Day. I had a beard which was quite bushy, but the children there
wouldn't accept it. They wanted the "real thing" -- a beard made from cotton
wool!'

RETURNING to your alma mater is always a poignant occasion but the Hon. Timothy
Knatchbull's visit to his prep school tomorrow will be particularly moving. The
Dragon School in Oxford is where Tim and his late twin Nicholas, who was killed
in the IRA boat blast together with their grandfather Earl Mountbatten, spent
some of their happiest moments. Tim, 44, is going back to the school tomorrow to
read extracts from his book, From A Clear Blue Sky, in which he tells the story
of the blast and his feelings of guilt at surviving. Part of the book's profit
is going to the school.

PS

WATCH out Samantha Cameron. Now that old Etonian Lord Pearson is UKIP party
leader, his stylish wife Caroline is sure to rival 'Sam Cam' as a political
clothes horse.

Lord Pearson's third wife is blonde, much younger than her 67-year-old husband,
and seems to have an endless wardrobe budget. She turned up at the state opening
of Parliament wearing an outrageously low- cut, glamorous dress. Certainly in a
different league from Cherie Blair.

EDITED BY HELEN MINSKY

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday

Ukip leader, his pounds 3.7m home, and pounds 100,000 in expenses

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491  words


THE new leader of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), Lord Pearson, claimed more
than  pounds 100,000 in publicly funded expenses on the basis that his  pounds
3.7 million house in London was his second home, while also owning a 12,000-acre
estate with servants in Scotland.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a businessman and peer, warned in July that the MPs'
expenses scandal exposed a "growing gulf between us, the political class, and
the British people''.

He has sat in the Lords since 1990. Since 2001, the earliest year for which
expenses records are available, he has told the Parliamentary authorities that
his estate beside Loch Rannoch, Perthshire, is his "main home''.

This enabled him to claim about  pounds 100,000 in taxpayer-funded overnight
subsistence allowances between April 2001 and June 2007 for staying at his town
house, on which he had no mortgage, in Victoria, one mile away from Parliament.

Peers can claim  pounds 174 a night - with no receipts required - to cover the
cost of staying at a second home or hotel room in the capital "for the purpose
of attending sittings of the House''.

After selling the flat for  pounds 3.7 million in June 2007, Lord Pearson moved
to another flat two miles away in Kennington. He paid  pounds 1.2 million for
the flat, again without a mortgage.

He then claimed another  pounds 15,000 in allowances on the basis of his
overnight stays there. Lord Pearson has repeatedly declared in official company
documents that his London home was his "usual residential address''.

His London house was also given as the address to which applicants wishing to
work as a housekeeper or gardener at the Scottish estate should send their CVs,
in an advert placed by Lady Pearson in The Scottish Farmer magazine in January.

Lords rules state: "Members whose main residence is within Greater London cannot
claim night subsistence.''

As well as claiming  pounds 115,683 for overnight subsistence since 2001, Lord
Pearson has also claimed  pounds 56,685 in "day subsistence'' allowances.

Peers can claim  pounds 86.50 a day for meals, drinks and taxis while working in
Westminster, with no need for receipts.

The peer - who was paid  pounds 40,000 a year for work in the City until being
elected Ukip leader last week - also claimed  pounds 48,471 in travel expenses,
including  pounds 10,064 for the cost of flying between Scotland and London in
the last two recorded years alone.

Lord Pearson said yesterday that rather than gaining from the allowances system,
he had been "impoverished'' by his political career.

"Working in the Lords has cost me millions,'' he said. "I had to take a
substantial cut in my City earnings - from memory, I have given up about  pounds
200,000 per annum since 1990.''

He said: "My [main] home is in Scotland. I spend almost exactly half the year
there.''

He said he had cited the London home as his "usual'' address in company
documents "for convenience'' in dealing with business correspondence.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron will rue his folly in denying UK referendum

SECTION: LEADER; 23

LENGTH: 90  words


TORY leader David Cameron does not realise the damage done by failing to honour
his referendum pledge. I am approaching my 62nd birthday and have never voted
anything but Tory ever since I could vote.

Now, as far as I am concerned, Cameron is just another dishonest politician and
my next vote will be for UKIP, and a lot of Tory voters I know feel the same.

Cameron has seriously miscalculated the mood of the people. This is the reason
for the reduction of the Tory lead in the opinion polls and nothing else.

Robert Singleton, Longridge, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Cameron will rue his folly in denying referendum

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 86  words


TORY leader David Cameron does not realise the damage done by failing to honour
his referendum pledge. I am approaching my 62nd birthday and have never voted
anything but Tory.

Now, as far as I am concerned, Cameron is just another dishonest politician and
my next vote will be for UKIP, and a lot of Tory voters I know feel the same.
Cameron has seriously miscalculated the mood of the people. This is the reason
for the reduction of the Tory lead in the opinion polls and nothing else.

Robert Singleton, Longridge, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 30, 2009 Monday

New Ukip leader Lord Pearson faces insurance firm questions

BYLINE: David Leighguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 820 words

ABSTRACT

Peer says he had no personal knowledge of dealings involving bribery allegations
with Costa Rica

FULL TEXT

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the wealthy insurance broker who became leader of Ukip
at the weekend, is facing fresh questions about bribery allegations against his
company.

Documents show that his firm of Lloyd's brokers, PWS, in the process of selling
the company, has avoided any liability for potential corporate fines, penalties
or reparations from a Serious Fraud Office investigation.

A spokesman for another firm of insurers, the THB group, which bought much of
Pearson's business in 2008, confirmed that all PWS potential legal liabilities
had been excluded from the sale. The sale took place following the threat of
lawsuits and the launch of an official investigation into allegations that PWS
had bribed the then president of Costa Rica whilst overcharging the small
central American state for its insurance premiums.

Company records show that possible legal liabilities have been left with two PWS
"rump" companies, renamed Dovesale and Saledove, that are in liquidation and
appear to possess no funds available for future creditors.

A legal source familiar with SFO investigations said: "If the allegations were
substantiated, there would be no point in going after Pearson's companies,
because they have no money."

Lord Pearson, who last weekend took over Ukip, an anti-EU rightwing party with
the potential to cause David Cameron's Conservatives some trouble at the
impending general election, says he had no personal knowledge of the dealings
with Costa Rica, whose annual premiums provided his firm with a lucrative
income. PWS arranged reinsurance of $4bn of cover for the country's state-owned
hydroelectric power plants.

Pearson was founder, chairman and a substantial shareholder of PWS. Its chief
executive, Julian Messent, stood down from the firm after a Costa Rican
delegation confronted Pearson personally in London in September 2006 with
demands that PWS explain its dealings with ex-president Angel Rodriguez, and
with the then head of the Costa Rican state insurance company. Evidence surfaced
of more than $700,000 paid by PWS into a Panama entity linked to the
ex-president, and the existence of a so-called $1.6m "training fund" which
allegedly provided Costa Rican officials with trips and treats.

The anti-corruption unit of the SFO in London supplied detailed banking
documentation to Costa Rica in August this year, following a request for legal
assistance from Latin American prosecutors. The SFO also carried out four
arrests for questioning of PWS employees in February 2007.

As a result, Costa Rica charged ex-president Rodriguez and six other officials
with corruption this November. The 170-page Spanish-language indictment details
an attempt that went unanswered to contact Lord Pearson with questions about the
PWS payments as long ago as September 2005. Costa Rican authorities subsequently
complained to the British embassy and hired a UK city law firm, Lovells, to
threaten to sue PWS.

Friends of Pearson said at the weekend that he had not received a letter from
the Costa Rican authorities although it had been addressed to the PWS chairman.
It had been handled "internally" instead. He had been surprised, when
subsequently approached about the case in May 2006 by the British ambassador to
Costa Rica.

Pearson hired City lawyers Freshfields to investigate. His friends say their
lawyers' bills came to £500,000. Negotiations took place in London in September
2006, at meetings between Pearson, the new head of the Costa Rican insurance
company, their lawyers Lovells, and Freshfields.

The arrests by the SFO followed in February 2007. By September 2007, PWS was put
up for sale and the sale finally went through in February 2008. THB, the
purchasers, told the stock market the PWS operations involved had a turnover of
£18.5m the previous year. "Under the terms of the acquisition, THB will have no
ongoing liability arising from ... various legal actions."

The Serious Fraud Office says that it is continuing "vigorous" investigations
into the PWS case. Observers say individuals could remain liable for criminal
charges if the allegations are substantiated, although any pursuit of the
company involved would now be futile. Pearson's friends say he cannot discuss
the case, but he has had several interviews with police, on the basis that he
would be a witness were there to be a prosecution. Julian Messent, PWS' former
chief executive, says he cannot discuss the case because of the ongoing SFO
inquiry.

Pearson said at the weekend that the context was very different a decade ago,
when the alleged "training fund" payments began in Costa Rica.

He said: "It is very regrettable that something like this should happen. But in
1997 when this started, it was regarded as perfectly normal. Under that regime,
all the other insurance brokers were doing exactly the same thing."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 30, 2009 Monday 1:43 PM GMT

We have submitted ourselves to a new Norman Yoke

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 582 words


My constituency is criss-crossed by the unseen leylines of England's past. At
the weekend, I followed one of them.

On Friday, I spoke at a lunch for the Conservative ladies of Bexhill and Battle.
We met close to the field where, in 1066, England was brutally wrenched out of
the Nordic world and embroiled, for better or worse, in the affairs of the
Continent.

The following day, I addressed a public meeting in Burford, where what might be
termed the last Anglo-Saxon rising was put down. In 1649, this handsome Cotswold
town was the scene of a bloody execution. A number of Roundhead soldiers, who
believed that they had been fighting to reverse the catastrophe of 1066 - to
"throw off the Norman Yoke", in their phrase - felt betrayed by the new
settlement, and continued to demand an extension of the franchise.

Cromwell had 300 of the radicals - who had become known as Levellers - interned
in Burford church. Some of the troops, seeing the danger, recanted; others
refused. On 17 May 1649, three of the ringleaders were taken out and shot in the
churchyard - an act of coldblooded execution that disturbed even the morbid
sensibilities of seventeenth century England.

Since the mid-1970s, Burford church has been a pilgrimage site for the Bennite
Left, and small wonder. The Levellers were, if not exactly socialists, utopian
radicals who, among other things, dreamed of a more equitable distribution of
land. But, although Marxist historians have played up this element of their
ideology, it wasn't their main concern. Their chief goal was one-man-one-vote.
During the gap between the autocracy of Charles I and the dictatorship of the
Major-Generals, the Levellers were almost alone in making the argument for
democracy.

I have written before that, if they were alive today, the Levellers would be
Euro-sceptics. They would loathe our quangocrats - or, as they would see it, our
Crown placemen. They would demand an end to Britain's European entanglements.
They would want tax cuts, localism, democratic control over the police and
judiciary. I'm pretty certain that they would support referendums. The
Levellers, in short, would endorse 80 per cent of the proposals in The Plan, and
would wonder why so many contemporary Lefties seem not to care about democracy.

Burford church, by the way, is a masterpiece of twelfth century craftsmanship.
It appointed an amiable and very eloquent evangelical vicar a decade ago, and
its pews are pullulating with parishioners: there must have been 150 worshippers
at the main Sunday service - one of whom had stood against me as a UKIP
candidate at the recent Euro-election. Afterwards, I showed my little girls the
place where the Levellers had fallen before the muskets, and bowed my head for a
few moments in memory of three heroic Englishmen: Cornet Thompson, Corporal
Perkins and Private Church.

The church now has an extra significance for me. In its baptismal font, where
you can still see graffiti carved by the imprisoned Levellers, I acquired a
gorgeous god-daughter called Kitty. Of the many things that I wish for her, one
is that she will grow up to inherit the birthright that the Levellers though
they had been fighting for - above all, the right to live in a free nation that
makes its own laws.

What would they think, those sober, serious, patriotic men, if they could see
our generation, not simply bent under the Norman Yoke but - in the sense that we
show no sign of leaving the EU - apparently content to bear its weight in
perpetuity?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Big guns wheeled out for battle of the marginals;
Lords Ashdown and Ashcroft are spearheading campaigns for the vital few votes
that will decide the next election

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 968 words


The next general election will be decided in the marginal seats. The Liberal
Democrats are fielding Lord Ashdown of Norton-sub-Hamdon to defend their slender
majorities in the West Country, while Lord Ashcroft is spearheading the
Conservative campaign in the North. The election battle lines are drawn.

Somerset, where I live, has for a long time been a county of marginal
constituencies. I was born in the old Frome constituency, and remember the
brilliant woman Member Mavis Tate holding the seat at the 1935 election with a
majority of 903. She fought on the Conservative platform of rearmament and
helped to give early parliamentary backing to the building of Spitfires.

My Whitaker's Almanack for 1900 tells me that there was a Frome by-election on
June 2, 1896, when my father would have been 7: the Liberal candidate, John
Barlow, defeated the Conservative, Lord Alexander Thynne, with a majority of
just 299.

The Frome division has subsequently been split into Somerset North East, where
our son, Jacob, is the Conservative candidate and Somerton & Frome, where our
daughter, Annunziata is standing.

The old county of Somerset has also been split into a county council, that has
five parliamentary seats, and two smaller authorities, each with two
parliamentary seats. This total of nine seats has divided in a remarkably even
way. Labour still holds Wansdyke, now Somerset North East, but by a very narrow
margin. The Liberal Democrats hold Somerton & Frome, and Taunton as marginals,
and Bath and Yeovil are seats they would expect to hold. The Conservative
marginals are Wells and Weston-super-Mare and their "safe" seats are Bridgwater
and Woodspring, where Liam Fox is the Member.

I do not pretend to be impartial about the campaigns being fought by my
children; they are working harder than I ever had to. In my youth I fought the
Durham mining seat of Chester-le-Street in the 1956 by-election where Suez was
the big issue and again in 1959, when Harold Macmillan, as Prime Minister, made
the generous gesture of visiting what was a hopeless constituency.

Somerset represents a small-scale version of the marginal battle that will be
decisive in the general election itself. I think the safe seats will remain
pretty safe,but the marginals are likely to change hands.

The Conservative campaign in the marginals is based on Lord Ashcroft's strategy,
which involves both money and organisation. The Labour Party never misses an
opportunity to attack Lord Ashcroft, because it is afraid of him. He is indeed a
formidable opponent. From what I have seen, his organisational ability is at
least as valuable to the Tories as his money, important though that is.

He is a first-class organiser with a modern business approach.

Labour seems almost to have given up on the rural parts of the West Country,
with a shortage of funds and active supporters. But the Lib Dems are taking
their West Country marginals very seriously. They have appointed Lord Ashdown,
who used to sit for Yeovil, as a sort of West Country supremo. He has compared
the campaign to the Peninsular War against Napoleon, which would put Paddy
Ashdown, suitably enough, in the role of the Duke of Wellington.

The Conservatives have also been sending their best speakers into Somerset,
including David Cameron, who has paid several visits. There are, I think, no
"Turnip Taleban" issues in Somerset, though people are accustomed to being
nicknamed mangelwurzels. David Cameron and George Osborne have been well
received as have stalwarts such as Ann Widdecombe and Nicholas Soames. On the
policy issues, Michael Gove has been particularly effective on education.

Obviously, Somerset is only one salient in the long front of marginal seats.
Last Saturday, The Daily Telegraph published a poll which showed the progress
the Conservatives are making in the northern English marginals. The YouGov poll
had very interesting figures.

The national results gave the Conservatives 39 per cent, Labour 29 and the Lib
Dems 19. This would leave the Conservatives able to form a government but a few
seats short of an overall majority. However, the poll in these 32 northern
marginals was far better for the Conservatives. In these seats, they polled 42
per cent to Labour's 36, enough to win all 32 seats at a general election. These
figures give justification to Lord Ashcroft's strategy and his commitment of
resources.

The marginal campaign has been as much ideological as organisational. The
Conservatives have raised their profile in response to the issue of poverty,
with Mr Cameron supporting the launch of Phillip Blond's new think-tank,
ResPublica. Perhaps that shows more of an interest than a conversion to "Red
Tory" ideas. More significant may be Mr Cameron's decision to attend next week's
AGM of Gingerbread, the leading charity for one-parent families. A few years
ago, one might not have expected to find a Conservative leader at such an event.

All of this, including the campaign in marginal seats and the new concentration
on the issue of poverty, has made considerable progress in the West Country.
However, there is widespread concern about European policy. If one takes the
electoral history of Somerton & Frome, the UKIP vote has been larger than the
Lib Dem majority in 1997, 2001 and 2005. Voters do realise that the Lib Dems are
the most extreme pro-EU party, though David Heath, the sitting MP, followed
local opinion in voting for a Lisbon referendum.

In the Somerset marginals a vote for UKIP will help to elect Lib Dem candidates
to Westminster. Yet voters in the West Country are predominantly Eurosceptic, as
are all the Somerset Conservative candidates. This will be a very hard-fought
battle and in the marginals a few votes lost to UKIP could decide the outcome.

In Somerset there are mangelwurzels but no 'Turnip Taleban' issues

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage's attack;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 187 words


Sir, The attack on Baroness Ashton of Upholland and CND by Nigel Farage, UKIP
leader in the European Parliament, is not only astonishing and disgraceful but
reflects badly on him and his party. His comment: "Are we really happy that
somebody who will be in charge of our overseas security policy was an activist
in an outfit like CND? I do not think she is a fit person to do this job."

Many will see the past involvement of Lady Aston in CND and her commitment to
the peace movement as positive, something to be proud of, and together with what
I assume are her many other qualities, make her a very fit and proper person for
her new job in the European Union.

I have been a supporter of CND for some 50 years and have the utmost respect for
the people in it.

This year I resigned from the Labour Party over MPs' expenses and the large
number of Labour MPs who abused the system. I had contemplated voting UKIP as I
am unhappy at the undemocratic nature of the European Union. Not any more. If
Nigel Farage was speaking for his party, then UKIP is not a fit and proper party
to run and represent the country. terry jacques Leeds

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP faces resignations over offer to disband if Tories held EU referendum

BYLINE: David Charter Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 466 words


The UK Independence Party faces a "wave of resignations" amid grassroots fury
over the revelation that its new leader offered to stand down candidates at the
next election and disband the party if the Conservatives agreed to hold a
referendum on EU membership.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, winner of the ballot to replace Nigel Farage, faces a
rocky start to his leadership after The Times reported on Saturday that he
proposed a deal to the Tory leader in the Lords in which UKIP would have
abandoned plans to stand at the general election.

Gerard Batten, an MEP for London, who was runner-up for the leadership, said he
was appalled by the secret plan and argued that members would not have chosen
Lord Pearson if they had known the full truth during the contest.

Nikki Sinclaire, an MEP for the West Midlands, who came third, said that she was
being called by outraged members threatening to resign, but directed her anger
at Mr Farage for asking Lord Pearson to make the approach to Lord Strathclyde.

The row threatens to overshadow UKIP's plans to reach out to disaffected Labour
voters by switching its focus to include campaigning against radical Islam. Mr
Batten said yesterday: "I am appalled they can offer to sell the party down the
river to the Tories - it is a betrayal of the members, and we will probably see
a wave of resignations over this.

"If he had run in the leadership election telling people that is what he had
done, he would have come bottom. The membership do not want it and it has caused
outrage.

"I have been saying all along we have not just got to talk to the Tory voters
but also the Labour voters who are not going to vote Labour any more. This makes
it much more difficult.

"Having a lord as leader of the party who is trying to do deals with the Tories
is going to make it that much harder to win the disenchanted working-class
votes."

Ms Sinclaire said: "I do not see what legitimacy Nigel had to make such a deal.
A lot of members feel very cheated judging by the amount of phone calls I have
received. Ultimately the members should have been consulted to have negotiations
with any party. It should have gone to a referendum among the membership. People
have contacted me talking about resigning."

But she added that she still supported Lord Pearson as leader. "He was the
messenger and we should not shoot the messenger," she said.

UKIP is planning to put up the boxing promoter Frank Maloney as its candidate in
Barking, East London, to take on Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, in the general
election, The Times understands.

Mr Maloney, who stood for UKIP in the 2004 London mayoralty election, will be a
controversial choice because of remarks about homosexuals during that campaign.
"I don't want to campaign around gays ... I don't think they do a lot for
society," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 29, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NO HEADLINE

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 97 words


THE United Kingdom Independence Party yesterday revealed it offered not to fight
next year's General Election if the Tories agreed to hold a referendum on the
EU's Lisbon Treaty.

Former Conservative peer Malcolm Pearson, elected UKIP leader on Friday, said he
made the offer after its strong showing in the European elections but did not
get a response.

He said UKIP's aim now was to force a hung Parliament so it could achieve a
"realignment in British politics". Mark Francois, the Tory's European spokesman,
said it did not make policy on the basis of secret deals with other parties.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 29, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly###

SECTION: LETTERS; 40

LENGTH: 267  words


PRIME Minister Gordon Brown, new EU President Mr Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton
all have one thing in common - none was voted into office by the public. How can
we encourage democracy in other countries if we cannot even deliver it to our
own people? I'll be voting UKIP in 2010.

Gary Robinson, St Helens, Merseyside THE last thing we should be doing is
getting politically involved with Europe. We have warred with most of the
nations over the centuries. We should, instead, team up with America. I would
much rather be an American citizen than an EU subject.

Mike Wilson, Shanklin, Isle of Wight I FULLY agree with John Davey's letter
(November 22). I also believe that the Army could protect our borders with the
MDPGA, the Ministry of Defence Police and Guarding Agency. It could have been
made larger and controlled our borders instead of forming the costly UK Border
Agency.

A James, Andover, Hants ONCE again the media are having a field day slating
Thierry Henry to own up to cheating in what is probably the most expensive
mistake ever by a referee. In my opinion the real culprits are the spineless
authorities like FIFA and its associates in not applying modern technology with
TV replays like those used in rugby union and cricket.

Rodney Posnett, Leicester I HAD to chuckle at your picture of Mrs Beckham and
her two sons ("Victoria has Cruz control", Sunday Express, November 22).

Where I was brought up, if I'd been seen holding my mum's hand and carrying my
teddy in the other at seven, I'd have been unceremoniously slaughtered by my
mates for months, if not years.

Paul Keller, Preston, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 29, 2009

INSIDE: INSIDE: Another 11 hospitals in scandal over safety: Failures lead to
thousands of deaths: Government orders new investigation

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana and Denis Campbell

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words


Ukip leader in bribery probe 3

West 'must get radical' 7

Climate special: Is there any real chance of averting disaster? 26-27

The true scandal of NHS hospitals that are failing to comply with basic safety
standards is revealed in today's Observer. Major research that ranks every
general hospital in England against a range of safety measures has named 12 NHS
hospital trusts which are judged to be "significantly underperforming".

This is despite the fact that last month the Care Quality Commission, the health
service regulator, judged overall care at eight of the trusts to be good or
excellent. Today's study by Dr Foster, an NHS partner group that collates and
analyses healthcare data, also highlights 27 trusts with unusually high death
rates. On their wards, almost 5,000 more patients died in the last year than was
expected.

The Department of Health yesterday ordered the CQC to urgently investigate all
12 trusts at the bottom of the league table, as well as three others. Ministers
have demanded to know why seven in particular have had persistently high death
rates over the past five years.

The revelations of such widespread safety failings will send shockwaves through
the NHS, which is already reeling from the scandals at two NHS trusts last week.
Poor nursing care, filthy wards, a lack of leadership and hundreds of
unnecessary deaths were exposed at Basildon and Thurrock University NHS
Hospitals Foundation Trust, and the chair of the NHS trust in Colchester was
sacked. Now the new data proves that key safety failings are occurring in 11
more hospitals across the length and breadth of England. Eighteen NHS trusts
were found to have death rates the same or higher than at Colchester.

John Black, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, last night told the
Observer that patient safety had been neglected by hospitals, which were too
busy meeting NHS-imposed financial targets. "Too many hospitals are too
concerned with meeting financial targets at the expense of clinical standards,
and we are seeing patients suffering as a consequence."

Today's research exposes systemic failures in large parts of the NHS during the
last financial year and finds:

39% of trusts failing to investigate unexpected deaths or cases of serious harm
on their wards;

At least 209 incidents in which "foreign objects" such as swabs and drill-bits
were left in people's bodies after surgery;

At least 82 cases in which medics operated on the wrong part of the patient's
body.

It finds that 5,024 people died after being admitted for "low-risk" conditions
such as asthma or appendicitis, of whom 848 were under 65. A proportion of those
deaths will be linked to safety errors.

The Conservatives reacted last night by promising a complete overhaul of the
regulation system, which rated Basildon "good" weeks ago.

Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary added: "Labour's failed health
inspection regime is more interested in targets than patients." Lansley also
questioned the timing of last week's announcement about Basildon. Officials knew
about the failings weeks ago but publicised them last Thursday, just days before
the Dr Foster research was due to be published in the Observer

The picture the study paints is one of large variations in the hospital
standardised mortality ratio, a measure used by Dr Foster. The measure, which
was used last week by Monitor, the regulator for NHS foundation trusts, looks at
the likelihood of patients dying - given their underlying condition, age and
economic background - and then compares that to the actual number of deaths.

Cynthia Bower, CQC's chief executive, said improvements had been made, but
added: "The NHS cannot stand still on safety. It needs to make further
improvements. It must be able to look the public in the eye and say that safety
is top priority."

Some of the trusts ranked in the bottom 12 have questioned Dr Foster's
methodology. The board at the University Hospital of South Manchester said it
reacted with "shock and disbelief" at its inclusion in the bottom 12.

Three-page special: NHS wards where safety is a lottery 8-10

Claire Rayner 9

Observer Comment 28

CONTINUED ON PAGE 7

CONTINUED ON PAGE 9


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 29, 2009

INSIDE: INSIDE: Eleven more hospitals at centre of safety scandal: Failures lead
to thousands of deaths: Government orders new investigation

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana and Denis Campbell

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words


The true scandal of NHS hospitals failing to comply with basic safety standards
is revealed in today's Observer. Research that ranks every general hospital in
England against a range of safety measures has named 12 NHS hospital trusts
judged to be "significantly underperforming".

This is despite the fact that last month the Care Quality Commission, the health
service regulator, judged overall care at eight of the trusts to be good or
excellent. Today's study by Dr Foster, an NHS partner organisation that collates
and analyses healthcare data, also highlights 27 trusts with unusually high
death rates. Almost 5,000 more patients in their care died in the past year than
was expected.

Revelations of such widespread safety failings will send shockwaves through the
NHS, already reeling from scandals at two trusts last week. Poor nursing care,
filthy wards and hundreds of unnecessary deaths were exposed at Basildon and
Thurrock University NHS Hospitals Foundation Trust, and the chair of the NHS
trust in Colchester was fired.

Now the new data proves that key safety failings are occurring in 11 more
hospital trusts across England. They include Scarborough and North East
Yorkshire Healthcare Trust, South London Healthcare Trust, Weston Area Health
Trust, Hereford Hospitals Trust, Lewisham Hospital Trust and University
Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire Trust. Eighteen were found to have death
rates the same or higher than at Colchester. Ministers want to know why seven in
particular have had persistently high death rates over five years.

The Department of Health yesterday ordered the CQC to investigate if any other
trusts needed urgent attention. The CQC said it was "monitoring closely a number
of other trusts", but had no evidence there was another case in England where it
would take action of the kind taken at Basildon.

John Black, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, last night told the
Observer that patient safety had been neglected by hospitals too busy meeting
NHS-imposed financial targets: "Too many hospitals are too concerned with
meeting financial targets at the expense of clinical standards, and we are
seeing patients suffering as a consequence."

Today's research exposes systemic failures in large parts of the NHS during the
last financial year and finds:

39% of trusts failing to investigate unexpected deaths or cases of serious harm
on their wards.

At least 209 incidents in which "foreign objects", such as swabs and drill-bits,
were left inside patients after surgery.

At least 82 cases in which medical staff operated on the wrong part of the
patient's body.

It finds that 5,024 people died after being admitted for "low-risk" conditions
such as asthma or appendicitis, of whom 848 were under 65. A proportion of those
deaths will be linked to safety errors.

The Conservatives reacted by promising a complete overhaul of the regulation
system, which rated Basildon "good" only weeks ago. Andrew Lansley, the shadow
health secretary, said: "Labour's failed health inspection regime is more
interested in targets than patients." He also questioned the timing of the
Basildon announcement. Officials knew of the hospital's failings weeks ago but
decided to publicise them last Thursday, just days before the Dr Foster research
was due to be published in the Observer

The study paints a picture of large variations in the hospital standardised
mortality ratio, a measure used by Dr Foster. The measure, which was used last
week by Monitor, the regulator for NHS foundation trusts, looks at the
likelihood of individual patients dying, given their underlying condition, age
and economic background, then compares that to the actual number of deaths.

Cynthia Bower, the CQC's chief executive, said improvements had been made, but
added: "The NHS cannot stand still on safety. It must be able to look the public
in the eye and say safety is top priority for the leadership of every NHS trust
in the country - no ifs and no buts."

Some trusts in the bottom 12 question Dr Foster's methodology, the first time
the researchers have created a patient safety indicator, which ranks hospitals
across a range of factors. The board at University Hospital of South Manchester
said it reacted with "shock and disbelief" at its inclusion in the bottom 12. A
spokeswoman for St Helens and Knowsley NHS Trust said: "The trust has a
consistently good patient safety and quality of care performance record, which
is reflected in the second consecutive 'double excellent' rating awarded by the
Care Quality Commission. . . The Dr Foster figures do not include the patient
safety data that was provided by the trust."

Roger Taylor, from Dr Foster, responded: "We have used the most credible
available data to assess patient safety. CQC ratings are not designed to just
assess patient safety and instead use broader indicators, including measures of
effectiveness and patient experience. The hospital guide is focused on patient
safety, and mortality ratios are used alongside other indicators."

Ukip leader in bribery probe 3

West 'must get radical' 7

Climate special: Is there any real chance of averting disaster? 26-27

Three-page special: NHS wards where safety is a lottery 8-10

Claire Rayner 9

Observer Comment 28

CONTINUED ON PAGE 7

CONTINUED ON PAGE 9

Captions:

Amy Callaghan, pictured with daughter Tegan, needed an emergency operation to
remove a swab that had been left inside her after a caesarean. Photograph by
Andy Hall


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 29, 2009

UKip leader's insurance company at heart of Costa Rica bribe claims

BYLINE: David Leigh and Rob Evans

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


The insurance business that made the fortune of the new leader of the UK
Independence party (Ukip) is embroiled in an international bribery scandal that
could lead to criminal charges in the UK, according to documents obtained by the
Observer

A detailed indictment served in Costa Rica this month alleges that a subsidiary
of PWS, the insurance brokers which Lord Pearson of Rannoch founded and chaired,
grossly overcharged the small central American state for its insurance premiums.

The Serious Fraud Office is investigating, and has arrested a number of PWS
executives for questioning.

But the company itself will face no penalty if the prosecution succeeds; it has
been disposed of to another insurance broker since the scandal broke, and the
rump of PWS which holds the liability for any fine or penalty is in liquidation
and without funds.

PWS is alleged to have paid bribes of more than $700,000 (£ 426,000) into a bank
account linked to the then Costa Rican president, Angel Rodriguez, as well as
providing a $1.6m slush fund for employees of the state insurance company.

Friends of Malcolm Pearson, the Thatcherite peer elected on Friday as the leader
of the anti-European and anti-Cameron Ukip party, said he knew "absolutely
nothing about the alleged payments".

The indictment alleges that Pearson himself, as company chairman, was warned of
the existence of the slush fund by a new Costa Rican regime which was probing
corruption allegations, as long ago as September 2005. The friends said he had
never received the letter from the Costa Rican authorities. It had been diverted
from his attention by others in the firm he chaired. One said: "He was contacted
by the British ambassador in May 2006, which was the first he knew of it."

According to his friends, the City lawyers Freshfields were subsequently called
in, and the chief executive of PWS, Julian Messent, resigned, following the
visit to Pearson of a delegation from the Costa Rican authorities.

Minutes of the Pearson meeting published in Costa Rica say that, during those
negotiations, he offered to co-operate with the central American prosecutors, if
no action was taken against the PWS company. He suggested PWS might return any
money if the claims were substantiated.

Following complaints of inaction, however, the Serious Fraud Office was called
in in 2007. The SFO made arrests, and obtained detailed banking information,
which was sent to Costa Rica in August. Pearson said he had been interviewed by
British police and expected to be a witness if any UK charges were brought.

He said: "It is very regrettable that something like this should happen. But in
1997 when this started, it was regarded as perfectly normal. Under that regime,
all the other insurance brokers were doing exactly the same thing."

Julian Messent said he was unable to comment as the inquiry was ongoing.
Pearson, an old Etonian, was made Lord Pearson of Rannoch, where he has a
Scottish estate, by Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s. He and two others working in
his father's insurance business founded PWS when he was 22.

The trial in Costa Rica is expected to start early next year. A close friend of
disgraced Tory minister and fellow Etonian Jonathan Aitken, Pearson was always
on the right of the party.

He invited controversial Dutch MP Geert Wilders to show his allegedly
anti-Islamist film Fitna in the Lords.

Captions:

The Ukip leader Lord Pearson, who co-founded the insurance broker PWS.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 29, 2009

Black playwright inspired to write 'BNP: The Opera'

BYLINE: Richard Eden

SECTION: FEATURES; Mandrake; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 352  words


BONNIE GREER described sitting next to Nick Griffin on Question Time as
"probably the weirdest and most creepy experience of my life''. Mandrake can
disclose that it has, however, proved inspirational for the American-born
playwright, who is planning to stage an opera about the rise of the British
National Party.

"It's a modern opera because the country is an opera,'' she told me at the
launch of her book Obama Music, at the Sanctum Soho Hotel, in London. "It's a
conglomeration of voices. The people are speaking and the people are singing.''

The 61-year-old author, who is married to a British solicitor-turned-teacher,
David Hutchins, said she was involved in discussions with the Royal Opera House
about staging her planned work. "I'm talking to ROH2 to see if they're
interested,'' she said.

Greer said her appearance on the controversial edition of the BBC programme,
which achieved a record figure of more than eight million viewers, had
transformed her life. "It's been a whirlwind,'' she said. "My life has just
changed. I've been a pretty solitary person, and since then I've been walking
down the street and people are talking to me. I have just been on a television
programme that I do once a year, and it meant so much to people. I feel so
humble.''

The BBC was criticised for inviting the BNP leader to appear on the panel of its
flagship political discussion programme, but Greer said Mark Thompson, the
director-general of the corporation, made the correct decision. "The BBC's job
is to educate,'' she said. "The party does have the same amount of voters as
Ukip. It's about the people who decided that that's the party that they want to
vote for. The BBC's obligation was to respect that. I think it's about respect:
we need to listen to one another. Question Time is enabling that listening to
happen. The people made that choice; we don't want a Victorian society where our
betters decide what we need.''

Greer, who acquired British citizenship in 1997, is the daughter of a
Mississippi sharecropper who was stationed in Britain during the Second World
War and took part in the D-Day landings.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

EX-TORY BECOMES UKIP LEADER

LENGTH: 111 words


A FORMER Conservative member of the Lords was elected the new leader of the UK
Independence Party yesterday.

The election of the popular but controversial Lord Pearson of Rannoch will cause
headaches for the Tories, who are already concerned supporters will desert them
over David Cameron's failure to offer them a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.
The peer has close links with the City ñ and UKIP hope he will be able to draw
funding away from the Tories. He said: 'If you want to go on being deceived by
the main parties, then stay in them and vote for them.'

Lord Pearson replaces Nigel Farage, who will contest Commons speaker John
Bercow's seat at the next election.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

You can't get rid of me that easily. . .

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 241  words


The timing, I must admit, was impeccable. The letter arrived on my editor's desk
just as indignation was rightly raging over hacked emails suggesting that
Professor Phil Jones, the head of East Anglia's Climate Research Unit, was
lobbying for the dismissal of the editor of a journal that published papers
downplaying global warming. It came from a climate-sceptic Euro MP, and it
called for me to be fired because of my reporting on the self-same issue.

Godfrey Bloom, Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, wanted me
"replaced'' by "someone who actually knew something''. Well, I can see the
attraction. And he is not alone. Climate sceptics quite often demand that I
should be dismissed, with a few even suggesting that it would be better if I
were dead. They are in a distinguished tradition. The inimitable Rush Limbaugh
recently told Andy Revkin, who reports on the environment for the New York
Times: "Why don't you just go kill yourself and help the planet by dying?''

It reminds me of when Friends of the Earth once wrote a seven-page letter to the
editor of another newspaper, insisting I should be fired after writing
critically about them. The editor sent a courteous, if dismissive reply. They
wrote back saying that he did not seem to be treating their complaint "with the
seriousness it deserved''. Having a dry sense of humour, he replied saying that
was precisely what he was doing - but I am not sure they spotted the joke.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Ukip offered Tories;
a deal to disband

BYLINE: Andrew Hough

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 192  words


THE UK Independence Party offered to disband if David Cameron, the Conservative
Leader, held a referendum on the Lisbon treaty, its new leader said last night.

In an interview, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a former Conservative peer, said he
offered the deal to the Tory leader after his party's strong European elections
results.

Lord Pearson, 67, who was yesterday elected Ukip's new leader, said he
approached Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords, six months ago with
the offer.

Acting on behalf of his predecessor, Nigel Farage, Lord Pearson said that if Mr
Cameron guaranteed a referendum and gave the Conservative Party a free vote,
then Ukip would disband. "We made that offer but we didn't get an answer,'' Lord
Pearson said. "I'm so angry with them now.''

Several months later Mr Cameron announced that the Tories would not hold a
referendum. Lord Pearson was made a Conservative life peer in 1990 but had the
whip withdrawn after telling voters to support Ukip in the 2004 European
elections. He joined Ukip in 2007.

Mark Francois, the shadow minister for Europe, said:

"We don't make policy on the basis of secret deals with other parties.''

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

Tories said no to pact on referendum

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 192  words


THE Tories turned down a pact with the UK Independence Party over Europe, it
emerged last night.

Ukip offered not to fight the Tories at the next election in return for a pledge
to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty even after it was ratified, said the
eurosceptic party's new leader, former Conservative peer Lord Pearson of
Rannoch.

He said that he took the proposed deal to the Conservative leader in the upper
house, Lord Strathclyde, after Ukip beat Labour into third place in this June's
European elections.

He said he offered to "disband" the party but received no answer.

Last month Mr Cameron dropped his promise of a national vote when the treaty was
finally ratified by all EU member states, angering many of his own backbenchers.

Lord Pearson took over running the party yesterday from Nigel Farage, who
stepped down to concentrate on his own general election campaign.

A YouGov survey of 32 marginal constituencies in the North of England gives the
Tories 42 per cent - a six-point lead over Labour, compared with a 10-point
deficit in 2005. Nationally, the poll gives the Conservatives a 10-point lead,
with 39 per cent to Labour's 29 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Pearson can boost UKIP

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 78  words


LORD Pearson's victory in the UKIP leadership race heralds an exciting time for
the anti-EU party. With ex-leader Nigel Farage set to run John Bercow very close
in Buckingham at the general election, eurosceptic voters from both Right and
Left still in a temper about the Lisbon Treaty and everyone sickened by the
Commons expenses scandal, all the stars have come into alignment for Pearson. He
may be starting from a low base but he is the one party leader with momentum.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

National: Tories ignore Ukip's offer to disband for EU referendum

BYLINE: Aidan Jones

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 484 words


The new leader of the UK Independence party has said he attempted to broker a
deal to disband his Eurosceptic party if David Cameron, the Conservative leader,
agreed to a referendum on the ratified Lisbon treaty.

Lord Pearson said he made the approach with the consent of Ukip's then leader,
Nigel Farage, after the party beat Labour into third place in the European
elections in June.

In an interview with the Times, Pearson said that he took the offer to Lord
Strathclyde, the Conservative leader in the House of Lords, pledging to disband
the party - which wants the UK to leave the European Union - if Cameron
guaranteed a referendum on the ratified treaty.

His approach was left unanswered by Tory high command, a perceived slight which
Pearson said had broadened the divide between the two parties.

Farage told the Times that the offer had been to withdraw the party from the
general election, rather than disband.

Although Ukip does not have any seats in Westminster, Pearson believes its hand
will strengthen in the run-up to next year's general election as the Tories
become nervous about cementing a clear parliamentary majority.

Last month Cameron said that the Tories would not hold a referendum on the
Lisbon treaty, backtracking on a previous pledge to hold a vote.

Pearson said: "A referendum on a ratified Lisbon treaty would have become about
in or out, which is why the political class wouldn't do it. We made that offer
but we didn't get an answer. I'm so angry with them now."

The peer, who was elected leader yesterday, said he was acting on behalf of his
predecessor, Farage, who has stepped down to devote his energies to a general
election campaign to oust the Commons speaker, John Bercow, in protest at the
expenses scandal.

Last night the Tories denied any deal. "We don't make policy on the basis of
secret deals with other parties," said the shadow Europe minister Mark Francois.
"We decide our policies on the basis of what is right for the country. As we
have said, a made-up referendum after ratification would be pointless."

Pearson was made a peer by Margaret Thatcher in 1990 but defected to Ukip in
2007, dismayed at what he perceived to be a Conservative soft line on Europe.

Speaking after his victory as Ukip leader he said: "My ambition is for Ukip to
do well enough at the next general election so that we can force a hung
parliament and a realignment in British politics."

He added that the party would continue to concentrate on leaving the European
Union, which he said would save Britain billions of pounds. Be he also said it
was campaigning to restore direct democracy through national and local
referendums.

The party says it will field 550 candidates at the general election next year,
hoping to steal support from both the far-right and moderate Eurosceptics.

Captions:

'We made that offer (to disband) but we didn't get an answer. I'm so angry with
them now'

Lord Pearson

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday

National: Politics: Lord Pearson becomes new leader of Ukip

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 96 words


Lord Pearson of Rannoch yesterday beat three of his party's MEPs to become
leader of the UK Independence party (Ukip). He replaces Nigel Farage, who stood
down to fight John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, at the next general election in
Buckingham. Calling his win on a 48% turnout of Ukip members "an honour and a
challenge", Lord Pearson, a 67-year-old Etonian ennobled by Margaret Thatcher in
1990, predicted Ukip, which has 13 MEPs, was "poised to make serious inroads" at
Westminster and create a hung parliament. Pearson was expelled by the Tories for
backing Ukip in 2004.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Village people

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 568 words


No thanks, Ann

* Ann Widdecombe's chances of a new career as Britain's envoy to the Vatican are
on the wane. After she was tipped for the post in August, it was thought that
her conversion to the Roman Catholic Church, which she joined because she
opposes the ordination of women, would not count against her. Every envoy to the
Holy See has been Protestant except the incumbent, Francis Campbell, who is
Roman Catholic. He was preceded by the first woman, Kathryn Colvin. But, much as
Ann Widdecombe would love to be the next, she is not the preferred candidate.
With the Pope due to visit the UK in September, the Government is looking for
someone with more experience of diplomacy.

The gay side of Ukip

* Talking of feisty women, the West Midlands MEP Nikki Sinclaire failed in her
attempt yesterday to be elected leader of the UK Independence Party. A shame. Ms
Sinclaire, below, who is 6ft 4in tall, has been mistaken for a transvestite
male. She outed herself as a lesbian in 2004, after the Ukip candidate in the
London mayoral election had made a disparaging comment about gays, but declined
to take on leadership of a "homosexual wing" of Ukip. During the 2005 general
election, the police had to arrest her after she had invaded a "Queer Question
Time" organised by Birmingham Pride. She objected to there being no Ukip
representative on the platform. The woman may be eccentric but she is not dull.

Driven to distraction

* Since Andrew Adonis, right, was appointed Transport Secretary, he has earned a
reputation as the first occupant of that post who really cares about trains,
even riding on them whenever he can. But on Thursday night he was embarrassingly
late for the annual dinner of the Greenwich and Woolwich Labour Party, where he
was guest speaker, because he had varied his habits and accepted a lift in a car
with two MPs. As the parliamentarians left Westminster, a lorry caught fire on
the main road ahead, bringing traffic to a standstill. Their 10-mile journey,
which would have taken a matter of minutes by train, lasted more than two hours.
That'll teach 'em.

Art of a good story

* Tremendous publicity was given in yesterday's newspapers to evidence to the
inquiry into the Iraq war from the former UK ambassador to Washington, Sir
Christopher Meyer. He claims to know that Tony Blair decided in 2002 to go to
war in Iraq, regardless of the legalities. After Sir Christopher retired he
wrote memoirs which were so contemptuous of Labour that civil servants feared he
had damaged their reputation for impartiality. He did not clear the book with
the Foreign Office, claiming that politicians such as Robin Cook had written
books without doing so - which was simply untrue. He also revealed that "my
children said to me 'Write down the story' because every time I told the story
it's different". One wonders how seriously the Chilcot inquiry will take his
evidence.

A Tory diary clash

* David Cameron and George Osborne are comrades, are they not? They are not
rivals, trying to undermine one another. Or are they? An invitation has gone out
to political journalists and others for pre-Christmas drinks with Osborne at a
hotel near Parliament on Tuesday week. On that same evening, the same guests are
invited to another reception held at the same time, in one of Parliament's
buildings, hosted by David Cameron. Poor George is in danger of having a lot of
wine to drink and no one to talk to.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Lord Pearson plays the Islam card to win leadership of Ukip;
Millionaire campaigner against immigration sees off four rivals to head party

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 616 words


A MILLIONAIRE peer was elected leader of the UK Independence Party yesterday
after putting "the growing threat of Islamism" and curbing immigration at the
heart of his campaign.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who defected from the Conservatives two years ago,
comfortably beat four rivals to assume command of the anti-European Union party.

Lord Pearson, one of two Ukip peers, has protested that the "political class" is
complacent about Islamism and claimed that some of "our people" were "strangers
in our own land". The 67-year-old former insurance broker invited the right-wing
Dutch politician Geert Wilders in February to screen a controversial film about
radical Islam. He has called for a zero net increase in immigration, arguing
that the issue was the main concern for many voters.

Lord Pearson has backed the idea of electoral pacts with Eurosceptic
Conservatives at the next election and is calling for a Swiss-style system of
local referendums which he says would hand "power to the people".

He takes over from Nigel Farage, who stood down to concentrate on his attempt to
oust the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, from his Buckingham constituency at the
general election.

Mr Farage, who will remain leader of Ukip's MEPs, had provoked anger within
sections of the party by recently endorsing Lord Pearson as his only "serious,
credible" successor.

The peer picked up 4,733 votes, 48 per cent of the ballots cast. The London MEP
Gerard Batten received 2,571. Nikki Sinclaire, an MEP for the West Midlands, won
1,214, Mike Nattrass, another West Midlands MEP, received 1,092, and Alan Wood,
the party's returning officer, won 315.

Lord Pearson inherits a party in high spirits after receiving 16.5 per cent of
the vote - a higher share than Labour - in the European elections in June. It
had 13 MEPs elected to Brussels, with representatives from all eight English
regions, as well as Wales.

It intends to field 550 candidates at the general election expected in May, but
will face a formidable a task in seeing any elected under the
first-past-the-post system. Its main hopes rest on Mr Farage's candidacy in
Buckingham.

In his acceptance speech, Lord Pearson said his ambition was for the party to do
well enough to force a hung parliament. He said: "Of course, we will be majoring
on leaving the European Union. We can't control our borders without that, we
can't control immigration and we will save billions."

Lord Pearson said: "Ukip is not for sheep, Ukip is not for lemmings. Ukip is for
people who think and act for themselves. And it is for people who now for many
years have seen through the lies of our political class and our main political
parties, particularly in regard to our relationship with the European Union.

"If you want to go on being deceived by the main parties, then stay in them and
vote for them. If you don't, the only way forward now is Ukip. It is the only
show in town."

He described the Lisbon Treaty as the "last nail in the coffin" of British
democracy and claimed that the European Union was now "a country, superior to
the vassal states".

An Old Etonian, he founded the insurance brokerage Pearson Webb Springbett, now
PWS, in 1964. He was raised to the peerage in 1990, developing hardline anti-EU
attitudes when he sat on the Lords EU Select Committee between 1992 and 1996.
That experience, he has explained, "led me to become a leading exponent of the
case for the UK to leave the European Union".

He had the Tory whip withdrawn in 2004 after he urged voters to support Ukip in
the European elections that year and defected three years later.

Mr Farage, who led Ukip for three years, said: "The party has never been
stronger and never been more united than it is now."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 28, 2009 Saturday 1:29 PM GMT

In Lord Pearson, UKIP has acquired a formidable leader

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 405 words


Lord Pearson of Rannoch, elected leader of Ukip yesterday, is the first peer for
a century to lead a political party. More significant, I think, is the fact that
this is the first time for decades that a minor party has been led by a
politician with deep roots in the British establishment - and formidable
campaigning skills honed inside rather than outside the Palace of Westminster.

I came across Malcolm Pearson seven years ago, when I was working on an
investigation for this newspaper into the BBC's grotesque propagandising on
behalf of the EU and the euro. Pearson, then a Tory peer, had sent a series of
letters to senior BBC executives, naming instances of bias and pointing out
precisely how they compromised the corporation's charter obligations. These
letters caused havoc at White City, not only because they came from the House of
Lords, but also because Pearson had judged his tone and targets so carefully.
They were a major factor in the BBC's reluctant decision to give more air time
to Eurosceptic arguments.

This morning David Cameron will be rejoicing, understandably, at the YouGov poll
that shows him capturing northern marginals. But I'm sure he is displeased by
the election of his fellow Old Etonian Pearson, who not only knows the Tory
heartlands like the back of his hand, but has decided to launch a campaign
against uncontrolled immigration and radical Islam that will resonate powerfully
in those northern marginals.

You may think that Ukip's new focus on the Islamification of parts of Britain is
a dangerous strategy. And so it would be, if the party was in other hands. But
Lord Pearson is still essentially a libertarian Tory: he would never stoop to
sending out dog whistles to wavering BNP racists. His campaign against
uncontrolled immigration and Sharia will be rooted in a defence of liberal
democracy of the sort that other parties are too gutless to make.

The arguments against voting UKIP are still strong: Pearson wants to force a
hung parliament, which would be a wretched result, since it would hand power to
that most opportunistic of minority parties - the Lib Dems - rather than produce
the realignment of British politics that he envisages. But Pearson still has
(very) highly placed friends within the Conservative party, and if his presence
on its borders can force the Tories to pay closer attention to public opinion on
immigration and Europe, then he will have done us all a favour.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron turned down EU vote pact;
UKIP offered to disband, says new leader

BYLINE: Alice Thomson; Rachel Sylvester; Suzy Jagger; David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 420 words


The UK Independence Party offered to disband if David Cameron agreed to hold a
referendum on the ratified Lisbon treaty.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, UKIP's newly elected leader, says in an interview with
The Times that he proposed the deal after the party's strong showing in the
European elections. He reveals that he approached Lord Strathclyde, the Tory
leader in the Lords, and asked him to tell Mr Cameron that if he guaranteed a
referendum and gave the Conservative Party a free vote then UKIP would disband
and its members stand down. He received no answer.

Several months later Mr Cameron announced that the Tories would not hold a
referendum.

Lord Pearson said that he was acting on behalf of his predecessor, Nigel Farage,
when the overture was made.

Last night Mr Farage confirmed that the meeting took place with his blessing,
although he argued that the offer was to withdraw the party from the general
election rather than to disband. Lord Strathclyde also confirmed that the
meeting took place. "We made that offer but we didn't get an answer," said Lord
Pearson. "I'm so angry with them now."

UKIP - which has no MPs in Westminster but has 13 MEPs - wants to pull Britain
out of the European Union, boost the UK's defence budget by 40 per cent and
bring back grammar schools.

It hopes to cost the Tories at least 50 seats in the general election and force
a hung Parliament.

Speaking after yesterday's result, the peer said: "My ambition is for UKIP to do
well enough at the next general election so that we can force a hung parliament
and a realignment in British politics."

Lord Pearson, a former Tory peer, said he would now do all he could to deprive
the Conservatives of a working majority at the next election.

"I hope we will cost them at least 50 seats. We may be able to force a hung
parliament which is what I want. The political class says we must have the smack
of firm government. Well, that's rubbish.

"I want UKIP to gum up the present political system completely so the monkeys
can't make any laws which we don't want." UKIP is understood to be preparing to
try to re-focus its appeal by launching a series of attacks on Islamic
fundamentalism in an attempt to shore up its right flank against the BNP.

It is planning to put a heavyweight candidate up in Barking to take on Nick
Griffin, the BNP leader, in the next general election campaign and prevent him
from claiming a Westminster seat.

UKIPintends to field 550 candidates in next year's general election, many of
whom will pay their own campaign costs.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP's hunter-in-chief is going for the Tory jugular

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48,49

LENGTH: 1605 words


He is the only party leader who owns a moor, deer forest and country estate in
the Highlands. Lord Pearson of Rannoch arrives for our interview clutching a
scarlet briefcase embossed with a gold coronet and the initials P of R. This
peer of the realm seems like the ultimate Establishment grandee.

His exercise regime consists of taking his pointers to look for grouse in the
heather, crawling through peat bogs with his rifle in search of stags and
fishing for trout in his pools. He hasn't heard of Twitter and he has "the
bless-ed Maxine" to send his e-mails. "I prefer plus fours to pinstripes," he
says. "Unlike David Cameron, I am not going to give up stalking nor am I going
to resign from White's."

Before the UK Independence Party leadership contest, he had fought only one
election, when he stood for Pop, the prefectorial body at Eton. "The campaign's
been a bit of a shock to the system," he says. "At Eton we just sucked up to
other boys furiously and bought them ice creams. This time I've done six sets of
hustings." But Lord Pearson has never felt part of the Establishment. "I'm a
rebel," he says. "I'm not posh at all, I was bullied at Eton for being nouveau
riche, which was very unfair, because we were nouveau but we weren't riche."

His father was a fighter pilot who worked in aviation insurance after the First
World War. Lord Pearson set up his own insurance company and describes himself
as self-made.

Friends say that at school he was the smallest but bravest boy on the rugby
pitch. He has never minded picking a fight. During the Cold War he became
friends with dissidents such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. As an education adviser
to Margaret Thatcher he took on the teachers' unions. In the 1990s he read the
Treaty of Rome and found his next cause - Europe.

Just as the Tories were becoming popular again two years ago, he left the party
for UKIP. "If you are a sheep or a lemming you don't join UKIP. The party is for
original thinkers, lateral thinkers, people who care passionately about our
culture and our history and who do not like to see our system of representative
parliamentary democracy being broken down." The expenses scandal has, he thinks,
increased the latent sense of disillusionment. "The system whereby you vote for
and send your MP to Parliament has become irrelevant; the majority of national
law is now made in Brussels, where it is proposed in secret by the unelected
bureaucracy. People feel they are disenfranchised and apart from leaving the EU
they can't do anything about it."

He wants to be the Peer of the People, with regular referendums on local and
national issues. "I would have a referendum whenever you get to one million
signatures. You have to trust the people, if we had done that we would not have
gone to war in Iraq.

"The House of Commons should be reduced to 250 MPs and we should think about
abolishing the House of Lords. We in UKIP are anti the political class."

His aim is to cause maximum disruption at the next election. "This is the only
language David Cameron understands.

I don't know how many seats we will actually win but the point is how many can
we deny the other parties, principally the Tories. I hope we will cost them at
least 50 seats - we may be able to force a hung Parliament, which is what I
want. The political class says we must have the smack of firm government - well,
that's rubbish.

I want UKIP to gum up the present political system completely so the monkeys
can't make any laws which we don't want."

His party will not stand against candidates who support Britain's withdrawal
from the EU, although he warns: "It's not enough to be a wishywashy
Eurosceptic."

He reveals that his party offered to do a deal with Mr Cameron to disband UKIP
if the Conservatives promised a referendum on a ratified Lisbon treaty. "After
we came second in the European elections in May, David [Lord] Willoughby de
Broke and I went to see the Tory leader in the House of Lords, Tom Strathclyde.
We said, 'Look, we have done quite well, better than we thought, if you
guarantee us a referendum on "in or out" and you give a genuinely free vote to
the Conservative Party, we will disband'.

"A referendum on a ratified Lisbon treaty would have become about 'in or out',
which is why the political class wouldn't do it."

They never got an answer.

The Tory leader has repeatedly refused to meet Lord Pearson. "The closest I have
got to understanding his position is a conversation in a car park with William
Hague."

The UKIP leader has the support of the former Tory party donor Stuart Wheeler.
"I've put some of my own money and I'll put more - don't tell the wife. She's
watching like a hawk."

What do his old Tory friends think of his disloyalty to his former party?
"That's difficult. But a number of them have told me that I'm the conscience of
the Conservative Party."

He believes that the rise of radical Islam is dangerous. This year he invited
Geert Wilders, the Dutch MP who called for the Koran to be banned in his
country, to speak in Britain. "I absolutely don't agree with him that the Koran
should be banned but I do think we should discuss what to do about extremist
Islamists.

"It is very worrying that a large and growing sector of our society is set
against our way of life and laws, our treatment of women and our religion."

Islamism is, in his view, a bigger threat than the European Union. "Its problem
is that it is a religious, political and legal system all rolled into one, the
penalty of leaving it is death, and it is on a roll all over the planet."

The Muslim population is "rocketing, their birthrate is much higher than ours.
They are already in a position where there are sufficiently strong pockets of
them to make demands we find difficult to resist. The British Airways woman was
suspended for wearing a cross when 12 of her colleagues wore the hijab. The
padre at Sandhurst banned the Creed. Not using the word Christmas is another
one. It is when Muslims use our generosity, multiculturalism, openness and
hospitality against our Christian beliefs."

He worries that the British have lost their sense of identity. "The problem is
most people now believe in very little. I would stop Muslims schools using their
curriculum to spread hatred and anti-Judaeo-Christian sentiment. We need to stop
Sharia taking hold in the West in our cities; it is gender apartheid." He says
that he has received veiled threats. But he is not going to keep quiet. "I have
had a wonderful innings."

This 68-year-old is uncomfortable with the pace of change. "It does worry you
sometimes when you drive through parts of the country and you don't really see a
white face very much. Obviously we have got used to it and it is something we
all support, but it can be pretty difficult if you live in those places and
that's where I think the BNP vote is coming from."

The British National Party said this month that it would welcome Lord Pearson.
Are there similarities between the two minority parties? "Absolutely not - we
are completely non-racist. They won't allow Jews or blacks in their party."

Unlike Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, he wants everyone of all cultures to
embrace Britishness. "The Queen's the best thing this country's got by miles,
together with the Armed Forces and the taxi drivers."

It was a near-death experience in 1977 that made Lord Pearson want to fight for
all the good things he believes in. "I've been described as God's Eurosceptic,"
he says. "I had an operation for varicose veins on both legs which went wrong.
The paralysing drug worked throughout the operation but the anaesthetic wore
off, so I could feel the pain.

"When you get into that level of pain you either die or you go mad - of course
that's what most people think I did - or you have a way out, which is a very
powerful religious experience.

I would never say I met God but certainly I went where everything was the
opposite of where I had come from."

What does Heaven look like? "It's total lightness and goodness and warmth and
the absolutely opposite of the dark and the cold and the destructive. The
powerful impression that came through at the end was that God, the numinous,
call it what you will - the supreme source of light and creativity - was sad
because it was losing against the opposite, which is the diabolic and the dark."

He knew that he had to fight against the dark side. "I take on the Christians
because they believe that God must inevitably win. My instruction was different,
that he's not necessarily going to win, as far as this planet is concerned,
anyway, and if you look at our planet today it isn't obvious that he is
winning."

For him the struggle includes fighting the European empire. "I did see early on
that this idea had the seeds of something very unpleasant in it as it
progressed. The European Union can only go in the direction of undemocratic rule
- the corrupt octopus isn't going to turn into a cuddly teddy bear."

Curriculum vitae

Age 67

Education Eton College

Family Married to Caroline for 12 years. Has three daughters - Silvia, Marina
and Zara - from two earlier marriages

Career Founded the insurance broker PWS in 1964. From 1983 to 1992 sat on the
Council for National Academic Awards, supervising polytechnics. He was made a
working peer by Margaret Thatcher in 1990.

He sat on the European Committee of the House of Lords from 1992 to 1996. Left
the Tories to join UKIP in 2007

Quickfire

Haggis or hash browns? Can I have both?

Bridge or backgammon? Bridge

Annabel's or Boujis? Annabel's - never been to the other one

Peat bogs or beaches? Peat bogs, obviously, silly question

Stags or pheasants? Stags Tweets or tweeds?

What's a tweet? Tweeds

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Pearson advocates Britishness: "The Queen's the best thing this
country's got by miles, together with the Armed Forces and the taxi drivers"
PORTRAIT BY PAUL ROGERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tories rejected UKIP pact;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 29 words


The UK Independence Party offered to disband if David Cameron agreed to hold a
referendum on the ratified Lisbon Treaty, its newly elected leader has told The
Times. News, page 15

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron turned down pact with UKIP on EU referendum;
Party had offered to disband, says new leader

BYLINE: Alice Thomson ; Rachel Sylvester ; Suzy Jagger ; David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 567 words


The UK Independence Party offered to disband if David Cameron agreed to hold a
referendum on the ratified Lisbon Treaty.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, UKIP's newly elected leader, says in an interview with
The Times today that he proposed the deal after the party's strong showing in
the European elections.

The former Tory peer reveals that he approached Lord Strathclyde six months ago
and asked him to tell Mr Cameron that if he guaranteed a referendum and gave the
Conservative Party a genuinely free vote then UKIP would disband and its members
stand down.

He received no answer. Several months later Mr Cameron announced that the Tories
would not hold a referendum.

"A referendum on a ratified Lisbon Treaty would have become about in or out,
which is why the political class wouldn't do it," Lord Pearson said.

"We made that offer but we didn't get an answer. I'm so angry with them now."

He added that he was acting on behalf of his predecessor, Nigel Farage, when the
overture was made.

Last night Mr Farage confirmed that the meeting took place with his blessing,
although he argued that the offer was to withdraw the party from the General
Election rather than to disband.

Lord Strathclyde also confirmed that the meeting took place. "I told them that
we were not in a position to commit to a post ratification referendum at that
time," he said.

"We hoped that the treaty would not be ratified before the general election.

It would be dishonest to have a post ratification referendum because once the
treaty is ratified its ratified and you can't do anything about it. UKIP must
decide how they want to present their case to the British people but the best
way of sorting out the european problem is to vote Conservative."

UKIP - which has no MPs in Westminster but has 13 MEPs - wants to pull Britain
out of the European Union, boost the UK's defence budget by 40 per cent and
bring back grammar schools. It hopes to cost the Tories at least 50 seats in the
general election and force a hung parliament.

Lord Pearson said: "We may be able to force a hung parliament, which is what I
want. The political class says we must have the smack of firm government well
that's rubbish.

"I want UKIP to gum up the present political system completely so the monkeys
can't make any laws which we don't want."

UKIP is understood to be preparing to try to re-focus its appeal by launching a
series of attacks on Islamic fundamentalism in an attempt to shore up its right
flank against the BNP. It is planning to put a heavyweight candidate up in
Barking to take on Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, in the general election and
prevent him from claiming a Westminster seat. The favourite for the UKIP
nomination is Paul Wiffen, the party chairman in London.

The party intends to field 550 candidates in next year's General Election, many
of whom will pay their own campaign costs. Mr Farage, who had spearheaded the
party's fund raising efforts, estimates that UKIP needs £1.5 million to fund an
adequate election campaign but around £4 million to properly compete against the
bigger parties. Mark Francois, the Shadow Minister of State for Europe, said:
"We don't make policy on the basis of secret deals with other parties. We decide
our policies on the basis on what is right for the country. As we have said, a
made up referendum after ratification would be pointless."

David Cameron ruled out a referendum after the UKIP meeting

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Pearson of Rannoch hopes to deprive the Tories of an overall
majority
PAUL ROGERS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Cameron turned down pact on EU referendum;
UKIP offered to disband, says new leader

BYLINE: Alice Thomson ; Rachel Sylvester ; Suzy Jagger ; David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 235 words


The UK Independence Party offered to disband if David Cameron agreed to hold a
referendum on the ratified Lisbon treaty.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, UKIP's newly elected leader, says in an interview with
The Times today that he proposed the deal after the party's strong showing in
the European elections.

He reveals that he approached Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords,
and asked him to tell Mr Cameron that if he guaranteed a referendum and gave the
Conservative Party a free vote then UKIP would disband and its members stand
down. He received no answer. Several months later Mr Cameron announced that the
Tories would not hold a referendum.

Lord Pearson said that he was acting on behalf of his predecessor, Nigel Farage,
when the overture was made.

Last night Mr Farage confirmed that the meeting took place with his blessing,
although he argued that the offer was to withdraw the party from the general
election rather than to disband. Lord Strathclyde also confirmed that the
meeting took place.

"We made that offer but we didn't get an answer," said Lord Pearson. "I'm so
angry with them now."

UKIP - which has no MPs in Westminster but has 13 MEPs - wants to pull Britain
out of the European Union, boost the UK's defence budget by 40 per cent and
bring back grammar schools. It hopes to cost the Tories at least 50 seats in the
general election and force a hung Parliament. Interview, pages 48, 49

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU vote can seal deal with Middle Britain for Cameron

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 155  words


DAVID Cameron is losing support by ignoring public demand for a referendum over
the Lisbon Treaty, whose ratification is throwing up questions about growing
domination by Brussels ("Can Cameron now seal the deal with Middle Britain?",
November 26).

Can Mr Cameron continue to ignore the European question, yet expect to walk
quietly into No. 10 Downing Street?

Opinion polls indicate that a large proportion of voters want a chance to remove
Britain from the EU straitjacket. Can he afford to ignore their voices?

He has been reticent over the imposition of EU President Herman Van Rompuy, who
plans to inflict swingeing taxes on this country, As usual, it is left to UKIP
MEPs to ask the tough questions.

Has Mr Cameron asked Tory MEPs to press the subject? If not, what are they there
for?

With UKIP steadily increasing its membership, likewise the BNP, Mr Cameron ought
to come down to Earth and think very hard.

J Bodkin, Whitland, Dyfed

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary:: Who knows who's doing what to whom in the plush salons
of London? Anything's possible

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 649 words


No one was brought to book for the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko in a
central London hotel three years ago. Andrei Lugovoi was the suspect named by
Scotland Yard. A state-sanctioned assassination, police would say. But,
according to German newspaper Der Spiegel, foreign government agents were using
the fancy London hotels for other acts of skulduggery even after that. In 2007,
Israel bombed a Syrian nuclear facility. How was it able to plan that assault?
Der Spiegel explains: "A senior Syrian government official checked into a hotel
in the exclusive London neighbourhood of Kensington. He was under Mossad
surveillance and turned out to be incredibly careless, leaving his computer in
his hotel room when he went out." Agents, say the report, installed a "Trojan
horse" program, to steal his data. But is it true? The Syrians, predictably,
take some persuading. "Imagine guys. A so-called nuclear program on a personal
laptop," emails one diplomatic source. "Maybe they meant a PlayStation 3 game. I
lost one in Kensington last week. Lol."

Oh for more stimulating teaching, says Ofsted, and why not ask pupils themselves
if they are bored, suggests Christine Gilbert, its head. Some say that's a
brilliant idea. Why didn't we do that earlier? "Decades later those of us who
had the misfortune to be studying history A-level, still recall the dictation
that we had to endure on a regular basis," claims one diary reader. "Was it a
shortage of books or ideas - we have never worked it out. Stimulating teaching
it was not." And who do they accuse of turning this hour into a lifetime? Why it
was Christine Gilbert, teaching in Hillingdon, west London. No response from her
yesterday. But as she says, it's about opinions.

We swoon in the presence of Tory poster boy and arch philosopher Phillip Blond,
whose ResPublica thinktank opened with a flourish and the Cameroon stardust
yesterday. He is to Cameron as Sir Keith Joseph was to Thatcher, as Cannon is to
Ball. You see the point. He attacks the likes of Tesco as exemplars of monopoly
capitalism. But such is the Red Tory polemicist's winning ways that his £1.5m
look-at-me war chest contains a £150k cheque from, er, Tesco. Well, every little
helps.

Today's the day for the Ukip leadership result, and as we wait to see if our
endorsement of Nikki Sinclaire belatedly tipped the balance, we hear from Mike
Nattrass, another who would shape the party's future. He's not happy. Mike, MEP
for the West Midlands, is pretty glum about his prospects, having been dogged -
unfairly, he would say, by bad press and damaging allegations. Just as voting
began, the Sunday Times said he is being investigated by anti-fraud officials
following allegations about his use of expenses. This much is true. He says he
is blameless. But he claims the allegations detailed by the Sunday Times were
not correct. All will be well if he comes through, but if he doesn't there's
wild talk of writs and other recriminations. We hoped Nikki would win, but not
like this.

Finally, many a band will tell you that it is not easy drumming up attention, so
with limited means and few contacts you have a choice. You can hit the phones,
hand out flyers, post on YouTube. But if you are the The Plastic People of The
Universe, the dissident rock band banned and jailed under Czech communism,
credited with bringing the regime down in 1989, you can overcome the
difficulties another way. Simply ring Tom Stoppard and tell him to sort it out.
So far, to coincide with their trip to London and a gig on 15 January, Stoppard,
who dramatised the band's travails in his 2006 production Rock'n'Roll, has
personally called in a slew of favours. Now they have a high-profile radio
interview, a Newsnight Review and interview slots in the national papers. The
most famous PR man in the business, they are calling him. Something to fill time
between the plays.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2009 Thursday



CORRECTION: A diary item stated that the war chest of Phillip Blond's new
thinktank, ResPublica, "contains a £150k cheque from Tesco" (27 November, page
35). ResPublica has asked us to make clear that neither it nor Mr Blond has
received any money from Tesco.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate:Hung parliaments are only good for whips and scribblers: They
can enliven politics and force leaders to think twice. But they are rare and a
recipe for factions rather than consensus

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1074 words


One swallow doesn't make a summer. And one opinion poll certainly doesn't make a
hung parliament either. Over the past few days, however, you could easily be
forgiven for thinking it did.

The Ipsos Mori poll in last Sunday's Observer has put a hung parliament back on
the agenda. It has set off an avalanche of speculation about the narrowing gap
between the Tories and Labour, about the rise of the minor parties, about the
Liberal Democrats as kingmakers, and about the way politics and government would
change. Next week even sees the publication of a 106-page report from the
Constitution Unit and the Institute for Government entitled Making Minority
Government Work. To which the first response is that this is all a bit
premature.

Minority government? What minority government? Hung parliaments are often
predicted but it is 35 years since the British electorate returned a parliament
in which no single party had an overall majority. That doesn't mean such a thing
is not going to happen next spring. But the interest in the possibility is at
least as much a reflection of the political class's frustration with the
predictability of the David Cameron versus Gordon Brown contest as of any
convincing likelihood that the next parliament will be hung.

All of this, let us remind ourselves, has occurred as a result of a single poll,
which showed the Conservatives on 37% and Labour on 31, with the Liberal
Democrats 17 and others 15. That poll was taken at the selfsame time as another
by ICM that gave the Tories a much larger 42-29 lead. The most recent survey of
all, by Angus Reid, had the Tories 39, Labour 22 and the Lib Dems 21. So only
time will tell whether the Observer poll was ahead of the game or a one-off.

Until then, talk of a hung parliament is extremely previous. Those who say
confidently that there will be one are guessing, not relying on a lot of
evidence. The average Tory lead in recent polls is still 14%. Yes, there has
been what Professor John Curtice calls some "glacial movement" towards Labour
since the summer. But even so the polls continue to point to a Cameron majority
of around 70.

Nevertheless, the Observer poll shot a good few volts through all the parties as
well as generating a lot of copy. For Labour this unexpected boost may have been
enough, along with Alan Johnson's latest New Statesman interview, to finally
kill off the possibility of a winter revolt against Brown. For the Tories, the
sight of Labour in their rear-view mirror for the first time in months may have
helped prompt Wednesday's decision by Cameron to play the Muslim extremism card
at prime minister's questions. For the Lib Dems, it meant suddenly being taken
seriously by the media, as Nick Clegg was quizzed about his hung parliament
intentions.

There are, though, plenty of other reasons why hung parliament devotees ought to
curb their excitement. Much of this centres on the uncertain fate of the
"nottles". While it is certainly true that far more people vote for third,
fourth and other parties nowadays than in the mid-20th century, some of the
numbers suggest that the amount of "nottle" MPs (not Tories and not Labour) may
stay the same or actually decline at the next election. If that happens, then
the statistical chances of a hung parliament will decline too.

To get a hung parliament, the more nottles the better. But the
first-past-the-post system gives nottles a mountain to climb. Look at the
current position of the nottle parties. The Liberal Democrats currently have 63
MPs. A seat projection from the average of recent polls would give them 48.
Sunday's Observer poll suggested only 43. Or look at the Scottish nationalists,
currently with 7 MPs. Alex Salmond has set the SNP a target of 20 next time, but
the latest Scottish poll this week suggests he will struggle to add more than
one or two, at best. Plaid Cymru shows no signs whatever of a breakthrough in
Wales. The Northern Irish seats are unlikely to change the large equation much.
Ukip? The Greens? The BNP? As things stand, all these nottles will struggle to
hold on to what they have got.

The nottles may, of course, defy the polls and do unexpectedly well. The Lib
Dems may be right that they have the winning of 100 seats. They say, with
justice, that they always do better than the pre-election polls imply. Salmond
may turn things round for the SNP and Plaid may collect in Wales. Votes for the
Greens, Ukip and the BNP may shape the outcomes in perhaps hundreds of seats as
well, though they would have to benefit the Lib Dems disproportionately in order
to boost nottle numbers rather than those of the two main parties.

I am not saying that there will not be a hung parliament after the next
election. A hung parliament still looks the second most likely outcome, after a
Tory majority. But a modest Labour recovery of the sort that some polls are now
reporting does not automatically make a hung parliament more likely, as some
seem to believe. It only makes it more likely if there are enough nottles to
hold the difference between the two main parties.

Britain has had hung parliaments and minority governments before. They have much
to be said for them. They can make politics interesting. They can force
governments to think twice before doing stupid things. But they can, as the
Constitution Unit report emphasises, be well managed (as Salmond's has mostly
been in Scotland) or badly (as Canada illustrates).

They inevitably hand power to small parties as well as to factions within large
parties - and thus to party whips. And journalists love hung parliaments. What
hung parliaments cannot do, though, is to compel rival parties to co-operate on
big reforms. By and large we don't do coalitions - or co-operation. The idea
that a hung parliament after the next general election will enable Labour and
the Lib Dems to come seamlessly together and introduce a fairer electoral system
is very seductive to many, but historically unpersuasive.

In the end, everything in hung parliaments always depends on the numbers - and
we don't know the numbers yet. If you want a hung parliament rather than a Tory
majority, though, there is only one reliable way to bring it closer - and that
is to vote nottle. In most circumstances, and especially in England, that means
that a lot of erstwhile Labour sympathisers will have to get on with it and vote
Liberal Democrat. Right now, however, there is not much sign of that.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 27, 2009 Friday 4:40 PM GMT

Lord Pearson elected UKIP leader. This will be interesting

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 182 words


Lord Pearson of Rannoch has been elected leader of UKIP. It should be
interesting: as I reported last month, the new man has said he will make the
fight against radical Islam a major focus for the party.

TodayThe Times reported:

A UKIP source said that if Lord Pearson or Mr Batten were elected "You are going
to see quite a lot stronger position from us. Nigel has always been afraid of
the Islam thing backfiring. But the BNP are taking ownership of issues that have
not been addressed by Labour, the Conservatives or the Lib Dems and they need
addressing."

So I imagine UKIP will now probably make immigration and radical Islam as much
their thing as Europe, and move closer to the Dutch Freedom Party, whose leader
Geert Wilders is an ally of Pearson. It might not make them the darlings of
White City, but it will play well to the public, many of whom are horrified
about the direction the country is taking, and who want to physically puke every
time they see a Westminster MP on television, but who are not prepared for the
mental leap of voting for the BNP.

I wonder what David Cameron thinks.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP front-runners target Islamic fundamentalism

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words


London The UK Independence Party is set to head in a fresh direction, fighting
radical Islam, with the election today of a replacement for Nigel Farage as its
national leader (David Charter writes).

The two favourites to take over from Mr Farage are committed to adding the
battle against Islamic fundamentalism to the party's main goal of withdrawing
Britain from the European Union.

Mr Farage resisted strong grassroots pressure during his three-year leadership
to broaden UKIP's focus to include actively campaigning against Islamism and
immigration. But both Lord Pearson of Rannoch and the London MEP Gerard Batten -
the two front-runners in a field of five candidates - say that they are
determined to target Islamic fundamentalism.

The result of the ballot of UKIP's 16,500 members is to be announced today. Lord
Pearson, 67, an Eton-educated self-made millionaire, was endorsed by Mr Farage
as his only "serious" successor this month. Mr Batten called the endorsement an
"insult" to the other challengers.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

Questions for Ashton over CND's 'Soviet link'

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 252  words


THE new European Union foreign minister is facing questions over her role in the
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament amid claims that it may have had financial
links to the Soviet Union.

Baroness Ashton, who was last week appointed EU High Representative for Foreign
Affairs, was treasurer of CND in the early 1980s. She has said she had no
contacts with the Soviet Union and never took money from Moscow.

The UK Independence Party has written to José Manuel Barroso, the European
Commission President, asking him to investigate whether Lady Ashton was party to
payments allegedly made to the anti-nuclear group. The letter, based on
allegations made by Vladimir Bukovsky, a former Soviet dissident, claimed it was
"very likely'' that CND got "unidentified income'' from Moscow in the 1980s.

The letter from Gerard Batten, a Ukip MEP, said audits

of the group for the first time in 1982-83 "found that 38 per cent of their
annual income ( pounds 176,197) could not be traced back to the original donors.
The person responsible for this part of CND fund-raising from anonymous donors .
. . was a member of the Communist Party of Great Britain.''

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, was reprimanded for asking in parliament if Mr
Barroso would investigate if Lady Ashton had received money "from enemies of the
West''.

Her office denied she was ever a member of the Communist Party. It said she
"left CND in 1983 and had no involvement after that''. A CND spokesman called
the Ukip claims "decades old unsubstantiated allegations''.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday

Diary: Without fear or favour they stop and search the powerful. No hiding place
for the shifty

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 663 words


First it was Kenneth Baker, Baron Baker of Dorking, stopped and searched by the
Met in the belief that the former home secretary might be a terrorist. Then it
was Sally Hamwee, Baroness Hamwee of Richmond upon Thames, eminent Lib Dem and
former chair of the London Assembly. And then, because the threat is real and
everywhere, attentions turned to Admiral Sir Alan West, Baron West of Spithead,
the former first sea lord and now parliamentary under-secretary for security and
counter-terrorism. All stopped by the police under section 44 of the Terrorism
Act. "What was most remarkable was that, as the questioning went on and the
incident continued, the level of seniority of the officers kept on rising," the
blameless minister told the Lords. What do the Met's finest know? Is it because
dey is peers?

No white smoke from Ukip HQ as the party trundles towards picking a new leader.
The people, having surveyed the candidates, will speak. "Is that the best we
have?" they will say. Will it be Lord Pearson of Rannoch, friend of the Dutch
Islamophobic tendency? Or Mike Nattrass, the West Midlands MEP, currently dogged
by bothersome press accusations - hotly denied - about his expenses. Nigel
Farage, the outgoing leader, says if the victor is anyone other than Lord
Pearson there will be trouble down the line, but that is surely too glib a
dismissal of the talents of Nikki Sinclaire, also an MEP in the West Midlands.
Some say she would struggle to hold her own at the apex of national politics,
and as evidence they might point to her recent appearance on 5 Live when she
appeared to say that our friend the benefit fraudster Ashley Mote (jailed for
nine months in 2007) had never been elected a Ukip MEP. In fact that was exactly
how the old jailbird was elected in 2004. He was thrown out of the party days
later. But what was said was probably no more than a slip on her part, and so in
a blatant attempt to destabilise the process, we today

anoint her as the Diary's official candidate. If Ukip has a future, and that's a
big if right now, Nikki (pictured) is probably it.

But she'll have to get moving: for Gerard Batten, another leadership contender,
is throwing up flares, making headway. This week he wrote to European commission
president Jose Manuel Barroso, demanding that he fully investigate Baroness
Ashton's activities over two years of the 1980s as treasurer of CND. Is she "fit
and proper"?, he asks. Was she in league with the reds? If she answers "Niet",
Batten will have all the proof he needs and the leadership will be his for the
taking. Come on Nikki. Gloves off. What do we have on him?

We looked but there was no sign of the Ashton thing in Pravda, but then there
does seem to have been a shift in its breadth of coverage. The home page on
recent inspection offered video from a bikini parade in South Africa, a feature
on masturbation, "news" pieces about models, and a picture of Borat. Has
somebody there been reading the Daily Mail?

It's all good, say the folks at Dr Foster Intelligence, the health data
operation born of a questionable "backroom deal" between the private firm Dr
Foster and a Department of Health armed with £12m of public money. Yes there
have been years of losses (£2.8m and £0.5m in its first two years of trading,
according to the watchful types at the Health Service Journal), but there was a
profit of £2.6m in 2008. Hooray. No dividend was paid to shareholders though.
Shame. Recently, says the company, the department "audited the joint venture and
found there had been no devaluation of the shares", which is good for it and
good for us - but does raise the question: why has Whitehall nevertheless been
thinking of cashing in its investment? Why shoot a cash cow? Seems strange.

Finally, from Phillip Blond, the Red Tory, there's the new thinktank,
ResPublica. And next year, for those who disbelieve the notion of a caring
Conservatism, there will be Red Toryism, the book. Publication date April 1.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tories' election war chest gets £5m boost;
Conservative donations are more than all other parties combined

BYLINE: Nigel Morris POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 608 words


THE conservatives raised more than £5m for their election war chest in just
three months - far more than all the other political parties put together.

A series of wealthy donors, including one of Britain's richest men, gave lavish
donations, while Lord Ashcroft, the Tory deputy chairman, spent a further
£90,000 on the drive to capture crucial marginal seats.

The Electoral Commission announced that the Conservatives received £5,269,186
between July and September, compared with £3,045,377 given to Labour and
£816,663 to the Liberal Democrats. Fifteen other parties received £401,372
between them.

The flood of money to the Conservatives echoes Labour's success in attracting
large sums before Tony Blair's 1997 general election landslide. The Tories
raised £3,236,828 from individual donors, with the largest gift of £252,000
coming from Michael Farmer, a hedge fund manager.

The engineering tycoon Jeffrey Whaley handed over £250,000 and David Rowland, a
property developer, gave £140,000, as well as vehicles worth £83,000. Poju
Zabludowicz, a property magnate whose estimated £500m fortune makes him
Britain's 18th richest man, gave two donations totalling £100,000.

Abduladem Mayet, a company director, contributed £118,000 to Tory coffers.
Christian Meissner, who was appointed co-chief executive of Lehman Brothers'
activities across Europe and the Middle East a week before the bank collapsed,
gave the Tories £31,500. He works for Nomura, which took over Lehman's European
and Asian division.

Companies gave a total of £1,635,127 to the Conservatives. They included
£250,000 from Warwickshire-based IM Properties, £130,000 from the research arm
of mechanical excavator manufacturers JCB, and £125,000 from FIL Investment
Management.

The casino operators Aspinalls gave £10,000 to Richmond Park Tories, where Zac
Goldsmith is trying to oust the Liberal Democrats. The Newmarket bloodstock
auctioneers Tattersalls donated £6,000 to its local Conservative Association in
South West Suffolk.

The Conservatives declared receiving gifts in kind worth £493,864 in the third
quarter of the year. The largest amount of support - £91,900 - came through Lord
Ashcroft's company, Bearwood Corporate Services. The sum covered "consultancy,
focus groups, opinion research, printing and related costs". The Tory deputy
chairman heads a team charged with directing operations in the marginal seats
that hold the key to the election result.

The Electoral Commission is investigating Bearwood's donations, which have
exceeded £3m, following allegations that it may not be a genuine UK trading
company.

The majority of Labour's donations came from the trade unions, with £760,825
coming from Unison, £601,053 from Unite's Amicus section and £305,150 from its
TGWU section. Another £202,557 came from individuals and £194,543 from
companies.

The Liberal Democrats' biggest donor was the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust, which
contributed £230,833. Ukip received £86,290 over the period, the Green Party
£76,316 and the British National Party £20,100.

The precarious state of Labour's finances was underlined by the disclosure it
had £9,768,122 of debts at the end of September, compared with £4,153,939 for
the Conservatives and £337,185 for the Liberal Democrats.

Peter Wardle, the Commission's chief executive, voiced concerns about the late
reporting of donations. He said: "As the general election approaches, voters
will be especially interested in how the political parties are funded and it's
important all the information is available to them in a timely manner."

£252,000

Largest gift to Tories, from Michael Farmer, a hedge fund manager

SOURCE: ELECTORAL COMMISSION

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Peer challenged over CND role and funds from Soviet Union;
New EU foreign chief was Cold War treasurer

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 502 words


Baroness Ashton of Upholland's past came back to haunt her yesterday when the
European Union's new foreign affairs chief was forced to deny taking funds from
the Soviet Union during her days as treasurer for the Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament.

Lady Ashton, a surprise choice for her post, was challenged to deny that she had
contact with Russian sources while she was in charge of its accounts at the
height of the Cold War.

The Times has learnt that concerns about her CND involvement are felt across
countries from the former Iron Curtain now in the EU and that MEPs plan to
question her about it when she appears before them for the hearing to confirm
her in her post. Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, raised the
matter on the floor of the European Parliament yesterday, earning himself a
reprimand for referring to Lady Ashton and Herman Van Rompuy, the new European
President, as pygmies.

Mr Farage added: "She was treasurer during a period when CND took very large
donations and refused to reveal the sources.

"What is known is that these donations were obtained by a man named Will Howard
who was a member of the Communist Party in Great Britain. Will Baroness Ashton
deny that while she was treasurer, she took funds from organisations opposed to
Westernstyle democracy? Are we really happy that somebody who will be in charge
of our overseas security policy was an activist in an outfit like CND? I do not
think she is a fit and proper person to do this job."

Lady Ashton was not present but her spokesman said: "Like many people in the
late 1970s, Catherine Ashton was involved in the big campaign movement of that
time. This was more than 25 years ago. She left the Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament in 1983 and has had no involvement in the organisation since then.
"During her time in the CND she never visited the Soviet Union, had no contact
with the Soviet Union and has never accepted any money from Soviet sources. The
first time she visited Russia was as EU Trade Commissioner."

All the candidates for the next European Commission must undergo formal hearings
at the European Parliament and the European People's Party, the main
centre-right group, has pledged to reject any who have promoted communism in the
past. Lady Ashton has denied being a member of the Communist Party.

She is due to have an informal meeting with the MEPs' Foreign Affairs Committee
on December 2 and a formal hearing in January, although she starts her new job
on December 1. Krisjanis Karins, a centre-right Latvian MEP, said: "Some
information has been published that she was involved in this Marxist movement.

"If this is the case it is disturbing.

We are especially concerned how the High Representative for Foreign Affairs will
conduct discussions with our eastern neighbour."

Hynek Fajnon, an MEP for the Czech centre-right ODS party, told the newspaper
DNES: "There is no doubt that the Kremlin supported CND activities. If Mrs
Ashton as treasurer had played any role in that, it would be a great scandal."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Catherine Ashton, second right, outside No 10 in 1982 with CND
colleagues
PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 25, 2009 Wednesday 6:57 PM GMT

UKIP leader reprimanded for criticising Baroness Ashton

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 130 words


How to squash my criticisms of the EU into a single minute? The Vice-President
in the chair today was a Spanish socialist whoturned out to have a remarkably
un-Spanish attitude to time-keeping, cutting off the speakers on the stroke of
60 seconds.

The case against Euro-statism in 60 seconds

I did my best, and have posted the resulting speeches here. For some reason, my
interventions rarely get me into trouble (with the glaring exception of this
incident). Nigel Farage, by contrast, is forever being hauled before the
headmaster. Today, it was for being rude about Baroness Ashton: apparently, it
is unparliamentary to call people pygmies. England Expects has the full story.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why Labour's ballooning debt makes me see red

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 123  words


SO the Chancellor will probably have to borrow even more than GBP 175billion
this year to pay the Government's bills ("Tax rises for all", November 20).

Just when I was getting used to the idea of GBP 2,855 being borrowed in my name
and that of every other UK resident (61.3 million in all), it gets worse.

The fact that for every one of us, GBP 238 of this borrowed money will disappear
for ever into the EU's coffers this year just about does it for me.

The three main parties talk about a vote for UKIP or the English Democrats being
a wasted vote. But isn't a vote for a big party whose own balance sheets show
more than a tinge of red, and that continues to ignore the wishes of the
electorate, also wasted?

John Andrews, Doncaster, S Yorks

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 23, 2009 Monday

THE MELANIE PHILLIPS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1215 words


CYNICISM, CHEAP STUNTS AND WHY VOTERS STILL DON'T TRUST THE TORIES

AS IF some hidden hand is mischievously shaking a giant kaleidoscope, the
political landscape in Britain has shifted once again.

Until very recently Gordon Brown was on the ropes, drowning, a dead Prime
Minister walking. The cliches used to describe his situation were as predictable
as his apparent miserable fate.

The Westminster and media village had decided the General Election was
irretrievably lost for Labour. The Tory leader David Cameron was being regarded
as the next Prime Minister in all but name.

Now that same political village has suddenly discovered that a hung Parliament,
with no one party gaining an overall majority, is in fact the most likely
scenario. The immediate cause of this latest received wisdom is a poll showing
the Tory lead plunging from around 20 per cent six months ago to a mere six per
cent last week -- nowhere near enough of a lead to win the election outright. Of
course, in today's febrile climate the electoral runes may be saying something
different again next week or next month. But the unsettling fact for David
Cameron is that the Tories have consistently failed to be as far ahead in the
polls as they need to be.

STRUGGLE

Because of the peculiarities of the electoral arithmetic, they need an enormous
swing to win an outright majority. Yet they have generally failed to have an
opinion poll lead big enough to bring that about. This is all the more
remarkable since the almost total implosion of the Labour government should be
providing the Tories with an open goal. Nevertheless, David Cameron is
struggling to 'seal the deal' with the voters. This may seem unfair. After all,
considering the parlous state of the party that he inherited, he deserves much
praise for turning it into a unified, disciplined organisation which is once
again a credible political force. This is a considerable achievement.
Nevertheless, many see him as guilty of the same kind of cynical opportunism and
contempt for the public that has turned so many against not just Labour but
politicians in general. Take the shameful episode at the Remembrance Day service
at Westminster Abbey. Mr Cameron arrived 30 minutes ahead of the Queen -- with
his own photographer. He proceeded to spend around ten minutes in the Abbey
garden having his picture taken inspecting the crosses etched with soldiers'
names.

Not to be outdone, Gordon Brown then tried to play catch-up, asking to be
photographed with his wife walking through the Field of Remembrance on their way
out.

Following a rebuke by the Dean of Westminster Abbey for this disrespectful
behaviour, both leaders have now been forced to apologise.

What a bad taste this leaves in the mouth, that even this most solemn
remembrance of those who have died to preserve this country's freedoms should be
viewed by today's callow custodians of those freedoms merely as an opportunity
for yet another PR stunt.

There are signs that many voters look upon the Tory leader with suspicion. The
most recent example was his reception on Mumsnet, the website for mothers
regarded as a barometer of the all-important women's vote.

Callers repeatedly attacked him for refusing to answer questions directly or
even at all.

His excuse that his answers were plagued by technical difficulties failed to
address the complaint that he came across as a slippery customer and out of
touch with ordinary women.

This was particularly ironic since Cameron has put such enormous emphasis on
making the Tory party woman-friendly. But this gets to the point he seems unable
to grasp -- that the trendy 'women's rights' agenda he follows is in many
respects inimical to the concerns of ordinary women.

That is precisely why he has got into such difficulties over the resistance of
the southwest Norfolk 'Turnip Taliban' to having a 'Cameron cutie' foisted upon
them as a Parliamentary candidate in preference of their own local choice.

BULLYING

Not only did this play into the politically correct culture of bullying and
intolerance from which so many long to be delivered, but it also dismissed as
half-witted, -reactionary bumpkins those who thought it wrong to select someone
who had not only cheated on her husband but had failed to disclose this fact.

This was not only deeply offensive to all who hold similarly moral views, but it
made a mockery of Cameron's endlesslytrumpeted commitment to 'localism'.

It is hardly surprising that this rebellion is now spreading to other local
Conservative associations such as Central Suffolk, where there is similar
resentment that well-qualified local candidates are being banned because they
don't conform to the fashionable 'Notting Hill' image.

People are desperate for an alternative to Labour. But they want an alternative
to its cynicism, dishonesty and contempt for the bedrock values of this country.

Yet in so many ways the Cameroons merely promise more of the same. Where they do
acknowledge unfashionable concerns such as mass immigration, the ' human rights'
farce or the loss of sovereignty to the EU, they merely come up with halfbaked
fudges which will change virtually nothing.

They bang on about ending 'big state' government or welfare dependency -- yet
they refuse to countenance any rootand-branch change to the centralised NHS or
education system

What people are looking for, above all, is a politician they can trust because
he is consistent and transparent and they feel they know where they are with
him.

Instead, Cameron has left himself open to the charge that he is a PR man in
search of the better soundbite, tailoring his message to whatever the last focus
group has told him. or the welfare state.

DISMAY

The mistake he has made is to fail to grasp that the country turned against the
Tories in the Nineties not because voters wanted a PC agenda, but because they
thought the party was sleazy and incompetent.

Now they want a leader who understands just what this country has endured these
past two decades -- an all- out onslaught on British identity and values, the
gerrymandering of 'equality' and 'diversity' and the bullying and intimidation
of all those who are not prepared to go along with this agenda.

But instead, they discover to their dismay that the alternative to Labour is a
party which believes that it is out of power because it is not like Labour
enough.

Why vote for the pale imitation of New Labour when you can have the real thing?
No wonder so many are now despairingly considering voting for UKIP and even the
BNP.

All of this means that a hung Parliament does indeed now loom as a serious
prospect. But this in turn is likely to reignite the pressure within the Labour
party to junk Gordon Brown as leader before the election.

After all, goes the thinking, if a hung Parliament is now possible even with him
as leader, they might squeak back in with an overall majority if he were
replaced by someone more voter-friendly.

For the rest of us, however, such musical chairs is likely to make very little
difference. Unless and until a plausible political leader emerges who has the
insight to acknowledge the profound challenges confronting this country and
possesses the courage to do something about them, British politics will amount
to little more than identikit opportunists dancing on the head of a pin.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 22, 2009

WILL BUCKLEY: Henry's hand was a call to arms for Ireland

BYLINE: Will Buckley

SECTION: OBSERVER OBSERVER SPORT PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 498 words


We have heard from Ireland's justice minister, Dermot Ahern: "We should put the
powers that be in the cosy world of Fifa on the spot and demand a replay." Brian
Cowan, the Taoiseach, promised to raise the matter with France's president, the
evil Nicolas Sarkozy. Even Ruth Lea, a former LSE governor, jumped on the
bandwagon to say: "The French don't need this boost like the Irish do and don't
deserve it because they cheated. Psychologically and economically qualifying
would have been far more important to Ireland."

But we have not heard from the minister for defence, nor have we heard from
senior Irish military personnel. This is a shame because "Surely, We Must Now
Have New Technology-gate" has progressed beyond mere football. It has become a
question of put up or shut up. And, at the risk of sounding controversial, I
believe the Irish have no option but to declare war. The sport has moved on from
being, in Orwell's now hackneyed phrase, "war minus the shooting". It is now
"diplomacy with balls". And when diplomacy fails as spectacularly as it has in
the past few days (see Facebook, Twitter, and a text sent to me by Cousin Ted)
then arms (weapons not limbs, Thierry) must be raised.

True, there is an element of risk in invading a fellow EU country, but there
comes a time when men must be bold. And is there anyone bolder than Tony
Cascarino? He cogently argued: "A two footed challenge hurts one man; Henry
harmed the image of the entire sport." In these days when image trumps personal
rights it is a small step to go on to argue "a bullet in the head hurts one
Frenchman; Henry harmed the image of the entire sport", and an even smaller step
to turning up in St-Malo with an expeditionary force under Cascarino's command.

The French, being French, will complain. But, frankly, they have only themselves
to blame and, being French, are likely to find themselves isolated. It is
obviously a shame Sarah Palin is not US president because the moose hunter would
have been a staunch ally in a war against the "cheese-eaters" (How wonderful
that the Americans, who put more cheese on their breakfast burgers than a
stereotypical Frenchman can swallow in a month, should have coined this term).

Other political factors, however, favour the Fighting Irish. Could there be a
better time to take a crack at Johnny Frog than ahead of an election? David
Cameron, anxious not to be outflanked by Ukip and the BNP (again!), will be
compelled to offer support to Colonel Cascarino. The others will fall into line.

Early polling suggests they would be wise to do so. There is a margin for error
in these things, but apparently there would have been hugely more public support
for the second Gulf war if it had followed on from "a clear and deliberate
handball" by an Iraq player in a World Cup qualifier against England rather than
"so-called WMD". Instead of "not in my name", millions would have been marched
in support chanting: "For the good of the game." Over to you, Colonel Cascarino.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 22, 2009

BRITAIN'S FUTURE HANGS IN BALANCE: Many political commentators and bookies
believe that a Tory landslide is inevitable at the coming general election. But
the latest polls suggest a new trend, as the Labour party edges back into
contention amid optimism about the economic outlook. Britain could face the
prospect of a hung parliament and political turmoil at a level not seen since
the mid-70s: STATE OF THE PARTIES: Labour poll rise points to a hung parliament

BYLINE: TOBY HELM POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1953 words


Alastair Campbell is not normally one to trash the state of the nation under a
Labour government. But in a recent post on his blog he listed a stack of reasons
to be miserable.

"Let's reflect on the fact that we are in recession, with unemployment up and
public spending cuts to some services certain," he wrote. "Politics has been
dominated by MPs' expenses. British troops are involved, and some dying, in a
difficult and protracted war with no end in sight and a recent surge in media
and public opinion against it."

To make things worse for Labour, the former head of communications at Downing
Street added that the Sun had switched its support to the Tories. After 12 years
of Labour, all the talk was of "time for change" and a Conservative government.

Campbell, however, is nothing if not a tribalist. His point was not to have a go
at Gordon Brown or to write off Labour - but to do the reverse. The former spin
doctor had just heard that there was a new poll out showing the Tory lead -
around 20 points six months before - was down to 10. Despite everything, and the
relentless onslaughts from a negative media, Labour was still in the game. If
the gap was narrowing in such turbulent times, what would happen if economic
recovery took hold?

If that poll was something to lift Labour spirits, then today's Ipsos MORI
survey for the Observer, showing the Tory lead down to six points, should make
them soar. Yes, there is a possibility it could be a blip in public opinion. But
it cannot be ignored, as it suggests an acceleration of a pre-existing trend.
Alarmingly for David Cameron, it shows the lowest Tory lead in any poll since
December last year when Gordon Brown was being hailed across the world for his
handling of the economic crisis.

If replicated at a general election, it would leave the Tories 35 short of an
overall majority in a hung parliament - the first such outcome of an election
since 1974. If the lead were to narrow further to five points, Labour could be
the largest party in the Commons after polling day.

Among Tory MPs and candidates a new nervousness has been evident since early in
the month. One Tory candidate noted a recent wave of hostility on the doorstep
towards George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, who announced in October that the
Tories would freeze public sector pay as part of necessary economic austerity
measures.

"They like Cameron, but not Osborne," said the young Tory. "That is a bit of a
problem." Back in spring and early summer the Conservatives seemed well placed,
with several polls showing leads of 20-plus. Understandably some in the Cameron
camp were yearning for a landslide.

In July, as the Tories began to warn that unpleasant economic medicine would
have to be swallowed, Philip Hammond, the shadow chief secretary to the
Treasury, told the Guardian that his party needed as big a majority as possible
to ensure it could take the kind of tough decisions necessary to put the public
finances in order. "The worst outcome for Britain would be an unclear political
result at the election," Hammond said.

He may still get his way. No self-respecting pollster would yet bet much against
the Conservatives winning a decent overall majority next May or June, and
certainly not on the basis of a couple of polls six months before an election.
John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, says Labour still
has a mountain to climb before it can bring down the Tory lead consistently.
"Closing a gap from 13 or 14 to five or six [consistently] is still a tall
order," he says.

Brown's personal ratings certainly remain dire. Today's poll shows that some 59%
of voters are dissatisfied with the way he is doing his job against 34% who are
satisfied. Cameron's are much better (but far from stunning), with 48% satisfied
and 35% dissatisfied. Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, is somewhere
between the two, with 41% of voters satisfied and 26% dissatisfied.

Yet there is a sense in Westminster - not just in Labour circles, but across the
parties and out in the country - that something may be changing. Danny
Alexander, chief of staff to Nick Clegg, told the Observer that the Lib Dems
were now having to "look very closely and seriously" at what would happen if
they became the kingmakers in a hung parliament. One senior Tory MP, a former
minister, said: "I think I can smell something. I am not sure people are quite
so angry just at the moment. The economy is not so catastrophic. People's
mortgages are low. Unemployment is not as high as everyone feared. And there is
some sympathy out there for Brown. I sense some change." Economic optimism is,
as our poll today also shows, at its highest level since 1997, 46% think the
economy will improve over the next year, 28% believe it will stay the same, and
only 23% think it will get worse.

Labour's morale hit rock bottom at its annual conference in Brighton at the end
of September when the Sun pulled the plug and backed Cameron. But since then the
paper's hounding of Brown over his badly written letter of condolence to the
mother of a soldier who had died in Afghanistan is seen, in Downing Street, to
have backfired. "We had six hundred emails on that in the days after, and only
seven were negative," said a Downing Street insider.

The stock market has risen steadily. Interest rates have been kept low. Ten days
ago Labour held Glasgow North East convincingly - averting a repeat of the
Glasgow East catastrophe in summer 2008 when it was ousted by the SNP. "No one
is daring to feel optimistic," said one strategist. "But it is good to feel we
have a reason to carry on." Labour's private polling shows, according to one
senior cabinet minister, that "the figures are tightening".

Jon Cruddas, the MP for Dagenham, a likely leadership contender if Labour loses
the election, believes that those who have written Labour off may yet look
stupid. "The Sun bet the ranch on Cameron because they thought it would be a
slam-dunk," he said. "The calculation was born out of a belief in the
inevitability of a landslide." Cruddas argues that, if Labour can keep the Tory
lead down to single figures or near that level for a sustained period, then the
whole game changes. Then it will be the Tory party that will begin to divide,
disagree and become racked with doubt as Labour starts to believe it really
could perform a great escape. "While the Tory lead has been at 15%, the right in
the Tory party has been prepared to keep quiet. But if it drops consistently to
nine and less, it will get more demanding," he says. "Things could fracture and
splinter in the Tory party and then everything becomes profoundly
unpredictable." Cameron would be under pressure to swing to the right on issues
such as immigration and crime and adopt more daring policies on public service
reform as part of the austerity drive. Labour could then strike back with the
kind of attack that Cameron has spent his first four years as leader trying to
prevent - that of "same old Tories".

For their part, the Conservatives believe the dismal state of the public
finances, and Labour's sky-high borrowing, give them ample reason to attack
Brown up to election day. They also pin their hopes on voters believing that
their candour on the need to rein in spending and borrowing will be seen as
responsible, in contrast to Labour "recklessness". "Labour cannot hope to sell
five more years of Brown, on whose watch the economy floundered, during an
election campaign," said a Tory insider. Labour, however, believes the polls are
turning - and for a good reason. Senior ministers seem convinced that the
Conservatives made a huge strategic error at their conference in Manchester in
October by laying out so candidly the need for spending cuts and an
across-the-board freeze in public sector pay.

Douglas Alexander, Labour's election co-ordinator, says people will have picked
up on the fact that Osborne appeared, as Alexander put it, to endorse a deficit
reduction agenda with "glee". This, he claims, was the true Conservative
instinct breaking free after years of rebranding aimed at showing the Tories had
changed, he says.

"The Tories' mask slipped and they showed their real beliefs," Alexander said.
The Tories had displayed "the fundamental contradiction between their branding
and their beliefs". Labour now intends to hammer the Tories over their
commitment to raise the inheritance tax threshold to £ 1m, benefiting only the
very well off. "The message from them is that they help the rich while the
little man pays," said a senior Labour figure.

If the economy continues to improve, Labour believes the Tories' austerity
message, and calls for a smaller state that implies cuts to services, is not
only dangerous, as it could choke off recovery, but will raise the question in
voters' minds as to why they are being asked to bear pain when the worst is
over. Tomorrow Brown will try to embed a sense of economic optimism in a
cautiously upbeat speech to the CBI.

A former cabinet minister stated that everything depended on the economy. "Many
people hate us still out there. But they are not going to the Tories in any
numbers. They are going to the smaller parties, Ukip and the BNP. They blame us
for the economy. They dislike politicians. And they worry about their jobs. If
we can remove that fear as things improve, I think we really are back in it."

Today's poll does, however, present Labour MPs and ministers with an acute
dilemma. Discussion of replacing Brown has not disappeared. Talk of an attempt
to install an anti-Brown candidate as chair of the parliamentary party in this
week's PLP elections, as part of a plot to force him to stand down before a
general election, has faded. But some MPs believe that, with a hung parliament
now emerging as a real possibility, the only hope of capitalising on tentative
signs of a Labour revival - and saving their own seats - may be to install a
more popular leader. "It cuts both ways," said one Labour MP. "If he is seen as
the obstacle, then some will argue that he should go. But others will say if
things are going in our direction, why change?" As it stands, Brown's allies
insist he would never quit before an election and that the suggestion is even
more laughable amid signs of some Labour recovery.

For Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats, there are also difficult questions to
answer as a hung parliament comes into play. If the Tories secure more seats
than Labour but fail to gain an overall majority - as today's polls suggest
could happen - all the signs are that he would refuse to prop up Brown and
Labour in any kind of deal. He takes the view that it would be the "moral right"
of the leader with the most seats to try to form a government. That is still
more likely to be the Tories.

But Clegg might not get his way. Historical precedent dictates that the
incumbent - Brown - would have the right to try to form a government, even if
his or her party has fewer seats. This happened after the 1974 election, when
Conservative prime minister Edward Heath, with fewer seats than Labour, tried
briefly tried to form a new government before throwing in the towel. Brown could
try to hang on, even then, and make his own deal.

The betting would still be on the Tories forming the next government with an
overall majority - but the confidence with which commentators make such
predictions has gone.

"I think this could be a wild card election," said Professor Anthony King of
Essex University. "I will be astonished if Labour gets back in [with an overall
majority]. But I would not be astonished if there is a hung parliament."


C apti ons:

Labour MP Jon Cruddas, second left, predicts problems for the Tories and shadow
chancellor George Osborne, left.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 22, 2009

Why the Tories are worried and the Lib Dems are hopeful: ANALYSIS BY BOB
WORCESTER OF IPSOS MORI

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 699 words


Political pundits are beginning to recognise that the outcome of the general
election is far from certain. At the same time, anxiety is spreading among Tory
MPs, morale is rising in Labour ranks and the hope is dawning among Lib Dems
that a hung parliament just might leave them holding the balance of power.

One factor is the simple arithmetic: the Tories need to win 117 seats to achieve
a simple majority, but perhaps 140 for a working majority, which is a huge
mountain to climb.

Another recent factor was Labour's convincing win in the recent Glasgow North
East byelection with a 59% share of the vote, which showed that crucial seats in
Scotland aren't as much at risk as might have been thought.

On the other hand, the expected improvement in the economy, now expected to be
likely within the year by a remarkable 46% of the public, compared with 7% in
February, has not been the saviour of Labour. The government's share was 31%
then, just as it is now.

The Ipsos MORI poll published in today's Observer is the first since April to
show the Tory lead cut to a single digit figure, just 6%. A poll published
earlier last week showed a 13-point Tory lead. Some will be quick to say that
they can't both be right. But what both show is a swing to Labour. The
unweighted figures show that some of the differences are in the weighting, which
smooths out the variability of their figures. Ipsos MORI doesn't weight by past
voting; all the others do.

Sometimes, such as during party conferences, there is a "blip" in the mood of
the electorate. This happened during the Lib Dem conference, when all six polls
taken the week after found them at 20% and above, but within days they all had
reverted to the 16-19% range.

Four of the seven polls taken so far in November have given the Tories less than
the magic 40% share they will need for an overall majority. None, until now, has
had Labour over 30%, its traditional "core" vote.

The 37% Tory share to 31% for Labour suggested by the poll - with the Liberal
Democrats languishing at 17% - will alarm David Cameron a little, and his
candidates standing in marginal seats a lot. On a uniform swing projection, such
a close result would suggest that, while the Tories would be gaining a
respectable 82 seats, this would still leave them 35 seats short of the 117 they
need for an overall majority. They would still form a government, but would
struggle to govern. These new figures show a 4.5% swing from Labour to the
Conservatives compared with 2005.

By contrast, the average result of all 109 polls published so far this year
shows the Tories on 41%, Labour on 27% and the Lib Dems on 18%, with others on
14%. This would give the Tories a 68-seat majority on an 8.5% swing.

The projections show just how precarious the likelihood of a stable Tory
majority is. Bring the Tories down one percentage point to 40% and Labour up a
percentage point to 28%, and Cameron's majority falls to just 30 seats (7.5%
swing). But if the Tories fall by another point, to 39%, and Labour comes in at
29% (holding the Lib Dems at 18% and others at 14%), then Cameron would be two
seats short of a majority on a swing of 6.5% from Labour's 2005 result, even
though he would enjoy a lead of 10 points over Labour.

"Wait a minute!" I can hear the Lib Dems saying, "we always go up during a
general election." That's mostly true, but even raising their share to 20% by
taking a point from each of the two major parties, a 6.5% swing leaves the
Tories nine short of an overall majority.

"This is silly!" say the Tories. "Ukip and the BNP are currently at 3% each, and
are therefore wasted votes; we'll squeeze them." Well, this may happen, and give
another point or two to the Tories, but what does that do for them? They would
win an overall majority of nine seats, but still fall short of a working
majority.

Six out of 10 Tory and Lib Dem supporters say they are "absolutely certain to
vote" in next year's general election, but only five Labour supporters in 10 are
as sure. If Labour could get these voters to go to the polls, they would be in
with a chance.

Sir Robert Worcester is founder of MORI. His new book is Explaining Labour's
Landslip. Further details at

www.mori.com


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 22, 2009

The perfect couple of nobodies;
The European Presidency;
HERMAN VAN ROMPUY & BARONESS ASHTON;
The big winners in last week's EU carve-up may not have famous names or stellar
CVs - but that's what made them ideal candidates for their new jobs, says
William Langley

BYLINE: William Langley

SECTION: FEATURES; International; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1024  words


After all the years of doubt and hesitation, the European Union's 490 million
inhabitants were finally united last week, if only by the realisation that they
were now being ruled by two people they had never heard of.

Herman van Rompuy, a serenely uncontroversial, 63-year-old Belgian centrist,
became the EU's first president, but the big winner was Baroness "Cathy''
Ashton, an obscure New Labour quangocrat who landed the job of High
Representative for Foreign Affairs. From the far corners of the couple's unruly
new empire came an encouragingly harmonious chorus of: "Qui?'' "Wer?'' "Chi?''
"Who?''

In any language, this was a tough one to answer. Van Rompuy's year-long stint as
Belgium's 66th prime minister has gone unnoticed even by most Belgians, while
Lady Ashton's only previous triumph of note was winning the 2006 "Politician of
the Year'' award from the gay rights group Stonewall. "You would not believe,''
she said upon receiving it, "how much this means to me.''

What her latest elevation might mean for the future of Europe remains anyone's
guess. Frantic to shed some light on her trajectoire météoritique, the
EU-friendly Brussels daily Le Soir was able only to tell its readers that since
arriving in town a year ago, she had signed a trade agreement with South Korea,
and was "sur le point'' of ending a wrangle over customs duties on South
American bananas. "She has no experience of foreign affairs,'' the paper
reassuringly quoted a colleague, "but she probably learns quickly.''

Back home, we didn't even know that much. As tends to be the case with those who
have risen far and fast under New Labour, Cathy's curriculum vitae is a
spirit-sapping recitation of posts held and causes served, far from the rigours
of the real world. Born in Lancashire, she has been a "vice chair'' of the
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, founded an organisation to promote equality in
the business world, and served as vice president of the National Council of
One-Parent Families. Given a life peerage in 1999 by Tony Blair, she was sent to
Brussels last year as a replacement for Peter Mandelson. Married to the former
journalist Peter Kellner, now head of a polling organisation, she has two
children and three stepchildren.

"Baroness Ashton is ideal for her new role,'' says Nigel Farage, leader of the
UK Independence Party. "She has never had a proper job, and has never been
elected to public office.''

Yet it isn't quite as simple at that. In terms of what the EU was looking for,
both the baroness and Van Rompuy are spectacularly well qualified. "Neither has
any sort of international profile or background,'' says Marco Incerti, the
communications head of the Brussels-based Centre for European Policy Studies.
"It may look like the appointment of two nobodies, but this is what happens when
the EU tries to please everyone.''

Behind the scenes, the Eurocrat elite had already established a detailed
template for the two top jobs. One would be a man, the other a woman; one from
the Left, the other from the Right. One would hail from the EU's inner realm,
the other from the mutinous outer territories. Above all, both would be
relatively unknown, and preferably nonentities, whose new powers - formidable
under the terms of the Lisbon Treaty - would not go to their heads.

These parameters were essentially fashioned by the French president Nicolas
Sarkozy and the German chancellor Angela Merkel, whose flourishing alliance is
founded upon the sharing of real control between Paris and Berlin, and are the
reason why Tony Blair, an early front-runner for the top job, never really had a
chance. Blair was too big a name, too controversial, too keen to take it on.

So, instead, we have Van Rompuy, known to hardened Eurosceptics as "the Belgian
waffler'', a mild-mannered economist, consumed with Catholic piety, who spends
one day a month in a monastery among an order of silent monks. In an interview
earlier this year with Paris Match, he claimed never to lose his temper, but his
sang-froid was tested when his sister, Christine, a member of a fringe Maoist
party, helped to design a poster showing him dressed as a circus clown. They
have not spoken since.

People who have met him in better circumstances, and can still recall the
experience, use such words as "modest'', "introverted'' and "self-effacing'',
and point to the fact that while his better-known, more glamorous rivals for the
job were glad-handing their way around the capitals of Europe, Herman and his
wife Geertrui were chugging through the Australian Outback in a battered camper
van.

According to Richard Whitman, an associate fellow at Chatham House, the London
foreign affairs institute, Van Rompuy's main qualification for the EU job is
"being a conciliator, and not being associated with anything that divides the
states'' - save, perhaps, his recent call for pan-European green taxes.

Certainly, politics would appear to be a secondary calling. Herman studied
economics at the Catholic University of Leuven, found a job at Belgium's central
bank, and later joined the centre-Right Christian Democrat party, progressing
through the next two decades with near-invisibility. According to Geertrui, with
whom he has four children, when King Albert II, begged him to become Belgium's
prime minister last year, "he did everything he could to get out of it'', but
felt he had to accept. At the time, the country appeared to be disintegrating,
riven by the long-running feud between French and Dutch speakers, and the sense,
shared by both, that the EU's host country had no identity of its own.

When he isn't trying to hold the place together, Herman writes Japanese-style
haiku poems and an agonised blog wallowing in solitude, pessimism, and
mortality, leading Belgian cartoonists to portray him as an elderly black-robed
cleric bent beneath the burdens of conscience and duty. "All human beings must,
at some point in their lives, choose between mystery and absurdity...'' he mused
recently.

Happily, the EU combines both qualities in abundance. The mystery flows from its
famously opaque workings - and the absurdity, from appointments such as last
week's.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

WHY PRESIDENT WHATSIS NAME AND BARONESS WHO COULD BE THE DEATH OF THE EU DREAM

BYLINE: SATURDAY ESSAY BY GEORGE WALDEN

LENGTH: 1783 words


WHATEVER your view of the European Union, one thing is for sure: it has a genius
for making life hard for its supporters. Now we are being asked to swallow the
surreal farce enacted in Brussels this week, in which two faceless mediocrities
unknown to the British electorate were elevated to the grand- sounding positions
of President and 'High Representative' (ie foreign minister) of almost half a
billion people.

Let us linger over their names for a moment. All we know about Herman van Rompuy
is that he is Prime Minister of a country the size of Greater London, and that
he is a federalist, which very few people on the continent of Europe are, and
almost none in Britain.

The most striking thing about him to date is his anonymity. Think of the line-up
at international gatherings to come: Obama, Medvedev, Hu Jintao and -- well, the
other one. . . what's his face, the EU guy.

As for the Labour peer Baroness Cathy Ashton, no one has ever had the chance to
elect her to anything, since she is a Labour placewoman rewarded for her
services to the party by appointment to the House of Lords, then as a
commissioner in Brussels.

The truth is that she has been appointed because she is a woman, because she
will threaten no one, and because her job as Trade Commissioner, where she
succeeded the more substantial Lord Mandelson, will make a juicy plum for
someone else.

Gordon Brown said Baroness Ashton's appointment gave Britain a 'powerful voice'
at the EU top table. Satire can go no further.

Anticipating criticism that she had no experience or knowledge of foreign
affairs, the former quangocrat had the gall to say that she knew all about
negotiating, because she had done some of that for the health service. I am sure
Prime Minister Putin, President Hu Jintao and the Taliban will be awed by her
credentials.

The sorry truth is, Baroness Who and President Whatsisname represent not the
peoples of Europe, but the institutional interests of the EU administration,
which is a very different thing altogether.

The indecent farce we have witnessed this week is a long way from the high
ideals and practical goals underlying the Community's beginnings. However
alienated you feel from the Europe we see today -- its tentacular bureaucracy,
its growing corruption and distance from the people -- you have to respect the
motives of the generation, to which Winston Churchill belonged, who were behind
it.

Their aims were to avoid another conflagration of the kind that had claimed so
many million lives in two World Wars, and to push forward the reconstruction of
a devastated Europe. You only have to recall that the EU grew out of the
European Coal and Steel Community of the Fifties to see how practical its aims
were at the start. They were not thinking about presidents and placewomen then.

I belong to the succeeding generation. We were too young to remember much about
the war, let alone fight in it; we lived in the shadow of the Cold War instead.
I am one of those who were solidly behind British membership of the EU.

YOUNG and naOEve I may have been, but as a junior diplomat and specialist in
communist countries by the age of 25, I had seen something of the world --
Soviet Russia, China and East Germany. My conclusion was that then it was a
nasty, unpredictable and dangerous place.

I remember the bullying of Britain by Russia during the Wilson period, and saw
how easy it was for Moscow to divide the West. So I was enthusiastic about our
membership of a group that, along with Nato, helped us coordinate our
intelligence and tactics in resisting the Soviet menace.

The benefits were largely economic. These were the early days, before the onset
of megalomania, when the original purposes of the EU were still to the fore. And
the British were active in shaping things in Brussels. There were no
over-promoted Baroness Ashtons then.

Instead, I saw brilliant civil servants; people defending the national interest
by hammering out agreements with likeminded nations in Europe to ensure we could
stand up for ourselves in the world.

Those were the days, not of permanent institutional change and aggrandisement,
of flummery and empire-building, but of hard grind. In a way the EU is a victim
of its early successes. Now, the clever folk I used to admire are too often
engaged in devising ever more complex topheavy structures to bolster their
bureaucratic powers, rather than the interests of the EU's member peoples.

The effect has been to blind us, by the sheer complexity of their procedures, to
the loss of national sovereignty involved. What matters today is not the people
of Europe, but something called 'the European project'.

Indeed, we are reaching the point where, like the most reactionary monarchies,
the EU no longer exists for its humble subjects at all, it exists largely for
itself. That is why the Lisbon Treaty -- and above all the new presidency and
foreign ministry -- are so offensive. The EU today is a bloated, arrogant
organisation, deaf to the aspirations of its member peoples.

Just witness how the new president was getting above himself even before he was
appointed. At a time when our belts are to be tightened till we squeak, this
unknown Belgian came along and said what we need is a new Euro tax.

Where would the proceeds go? I think I know. They would help pay for a whole new
tier of Eurodiplomats and their escalating expenses.

A year on and we shall doubtless be told that to keep up with the presidential
Joneses we urgently need a European Air Force One, maybe one of the new Airbus
A380 superjumbos, capable of carrying 800 people.

And you can bet that the bureaucrats and policy advisers and interpreters and
chefs and security men from 27 nations won't be travelling economy. Ever greater
unity and integration and trans-national powers will be the new President's
watchwords.

For the fact is that we are being asked to bow our heads in meek submission
before the President and Foreign Minister of a pseudo-state, whose main effect
will not be to give us more clout in the world, but to reinforce the EU's
tendency to override national powers.

TO UNDERSTAND what we can expect, all we need to do is to look at the manner of
the new appointments. The horsetrading behind closed doors, the petty
manoeuvrings, the personal vanities, the shameless ambitions of mediocrities,
the lack of anything resembling a manifesto. It was the very opposite of a
democratic process. And for what purpose?

We needed a permanent presidency, we were told, as distinct from the rotating
six-month arrangement we have had until now, not just to give the EU greater
international authority, but to unify it internally.

True, a community that has expanded from six to 27 nations cannot operate the
way it did. Especially since it includes countries, such as Romania and
Bulgaria, whose political, economic and civil cultures are somewhat removed from
our own. But to think we can assimilate these newcomers and pull the Western and
Eastern wings of the community together through a unifying presidency is
fundamentally wrong. These are people who have gained their independence from a
dominant foreign power.

The idea that they must now submit to the ever tighter control of another
arbitrarily appointed authority, however benign, is absurd. No better way could
be imagined of rendering membership of the EU a historical joke.

What these countries need is practice in the habit of reaching consensus on a
fair and equal basis through democratic debate, not some superfluous and
patently second-rate president and foreign minister lording it over them.

Yet any criticism of the EU, we are told, plays into the hands of the
chauvinists and Little Englanders. Of course such people exist: I argued ad
nauseam with some of them when I was an MP.

But being an MP and meeting people face to face teaches you that those who are
scandalised by EU incompetence or corruption, or with reservations about joining
the Euro, are mostly not jingoists who want to get out of Europe altogether, in
the mythical belief that we can stand on our own as an island race. They are
just proud, sensible Brits.

It is a myth that the British as a whole are hostile to Europe. People go to
France or Germany, look at their roads or trains or schools and health services,
and wonder why ours compare so badly. And today they see many continental
countries weathering the recession better than us. But they know that federalism
is not the answer.

Watching what is happening in Brussels, more of them might now decide that it is
time to withdraw altogether.

NO WONDER the leader of UKIP, Nigel Farage, is now sounding so chipper about
winning the Buckingham seat (my old constituency) from Speaker Bercow. This
week's events will give his campaign a shot in the arm.

So much that is done in the EU today is for dubious, opaque or frankly cynical
motives, and people across Europe are increasingly sickened by the spectacle.

Even France's President Sarkozy, we are informed, wanted a President of modest
stature because a big figure might overshadow his authority. (Though in truth,
it wouldn't take much to tower over the increasingly erratic and unpopular
Sarkozy).

His worry is based on France's determination to preserve ultimate freedom of
action in international affairs. So in a convoluted way Britain and France share
similar fears.

But the answer was not to scheme behind closed doors to ensure we end up with a
small and malleable figure. It is not to have a pretend President or Foreign
Minister at all.

Instead, we should continue the best European traditions of ad hoc co-operation
where it makes sense, in areas such as trade or the environment or illegal
immigration, and of presenting a united front against threats to European
interests, such as Russian bullying over energy supplies.

Alas, the entire presidential affair has been a grotesque piece of flummery and
pretension and conceit. It will damage not just the interests of Britain but, in
the longer term, of the EU itself.

Pro-Europeans who have talked glibly about how you need a single face to
represent you in the modern world will come to realise that, by appointing two
nobodies as EU leaders, the Community has contrived the impossible: aiming for
the stars yet shooting itself in the foot.

Our adversaries have long known something that Brussels has yet to learn: the EU
is not and can never be a country. We can now rely on them to exploit the
tensions and disunity that a make-believe European presidency and foreign
ministry are bound to create.

What an historical irony if the pressure towards federalism were to re-create
the poisonous frictions between nations that Europe's founding fathers such as
Churchill were trying to banish for all time.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

WILL THE GREAT EU STITCH-UP COST US OUR 63BN REBATE?

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES

LENGTH: 738 words


GORDON Brown was facing a furious backlash over the 'Great EU Stitch-Up' last
night.

He was accused of trading away vital British interests to the French to land a
top job for one of his friends.

The French newspaper Le Monde reported that Mr Brown had cut a deal with
President Sarkozy at this week's Brussels summit, where Labour's Baroness Ashton
was plucked from obscurity to be the EU foreign minister.

In return for French support for her the Prime Minister is reported to have
agreed to hand the key job of Internal Market Commissioner to the former French
foreign minister Michel Barnier who wants to scrap Britain's EU rebate.

Le Monde quoted one EU diplomat as saying it was a straight 'tit for tat' deal.

Another diplomat said the internal market job, not due to be announced for a
fortnight, was 'nailed on' for Mr Barnier.

He is a committed federalist who has campaigned for an end to the UK rebate,
worth 63billion this year, and called for taxes to be 'harmonised' across the
EU.

His appointment to the powerful internal market job, where he would be in charge
of business regulations, would alarm many in the British business community and
the City.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said it was time for the Government to
come clean over the negotiations that led to Lady Ashton's surprise appointment.

He has written to Foreign Secretary David Miliband calling for clarification. Mr
Hague said: 'As we have warned all along, the Lisbon treaty has in fact made the
EU even less transparent.

'If Gordon Brown has done a deal that would mean a French commissioner being in
charge of the economic issues that affect Britain the most, then that could be a
serious concern.'

Downing Street denied the claims, pointing out that a final decision on
commissioners rested with Commission President Manuel Barroso.

But the appointment of the virtually unknown Baroness Ashton continued to raise
eyebrows, with some critics expressing concern that a former employee of the
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament was now in charge of Europe's foreign and
security policy.

Lady Ashton, 53, worked for CND as an administrator in the late 1970s. It is
thought that MI5 kept a file on her.

Yesterday she declared she was the 'best person' for the post.

But former Tory Cabinet minister John Redwood said it was unthinkable that she
would have got the job if she had had to face an election.

Mr Redwood said: 'I think her background in CND will concern many people. It is
exactly the sort of thing that would have been probed during an election, but of
course she did not face one.'

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said Lady Ashton's background should
preclude her from the sensitive role. He said: 'She has no experience in
international affairs and is only being appointed as part of a political
stitch-up. The whole thing stinks.

Lady Ashton and new EU president Herman Van Rompuy have been mocked as political
pygmies since they emerged as the successful candidates from the summit of 27 EU
leaders in Brussels on Thursday night.

Mr Van Rompuy got the job after several countries vetoed Tony Blair because of
fears his grandstanding on the world stage would overshadow their own interests.

Friends of Mr Blair last night claimed he had already decided he did not want
the job, but his biographer-Anthony Seldon said the former Prime Minister was
deeply 'disappointed that many of his friends in Europe, and a number of fellow
countrymen, didn't do more for his cause'.

Lady Ashton hit back at her critics yesterday, insisting she was the 'best
person' for the job.

The former quango boss has never been elected to office and has just one year's
experience in the Cabinet as leader of the House of Lords. She was sent to
Brussels as Trade Commissioner last year when Lord Mandelson returned to British
politics.

Yesterday she insisted she was ready to join the foreign ministers of the
world's most powerful countries at the top table.

She said her experience included '28 years doing negotiations in all kinds of
fora' and added: 'Over the next few months and years I aim to show that I am the
best person for the job.

'I think for quite a few people they would say that I am the best person for the
job and I was chosen because I am, but I absolutely recognise there are a number
of candidates around, all of whom would have been extremely good.'

She said she had discovered only in the past few days that she was being
discussed as a candidate.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

A brilliant way to turn off Tory voters;
Simon Heffer;
on saturday

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 592  words


White men are the only group left in our society about whom it is safe to be
offensive. There is, however, a subset about whom it is not just safe to be
rude, but whose humiliation is actively encouraged. We had a prime example this
week in Sir Jeremy Bagge, 7th Bt, Old Etonian, Norfolk landowner and leader of
the so-called "Turnip Taliban''. Sir Jeremy was depicted as the would-be nemesis
of Liz Truss, selected for South West Norfolk despite her adultery with a Tory
MP. In these guises he was ripe for savaging, to give the Tory party another
fatuous chance to yell: "We've changed!''

For some years, people like me have been telling people like Sir Jeremy, with
sincere regret, that they are not welcome in the Conservative Party. It exists
now principally for people who used to vote Labour. The Conservative Party
positively encourages the persecution of such types as Sir Jeremy. How dare he
be rich, live in a big house, speak with a plum in his mouth and expect to
participate in politics in this day and age? Doesn't he understand that
democracy now excludes people like him?

It has been nauseating to read the ill-informed, or in some cases deliberately
misleading, comments made about him by Dave's henchmen in their unscrupulous
dash for votes, and regurgitated by their foolish lackeys in the media. Sir
Jeremy is depicted as a bigoted, Victorian figure hounding Miss Truss out of
politics for the crimes of being a woman, being from a lower social class and,
above all, for having had an affair. This is rubbish. Sir Jeremy did not bring
Miss Truss's private life into the question - and nor should he have done, in
this day and age. His main concern was that Central Office had not been honest
with his association about her, and there had been an element of trying to foist
her on them. He had every right to complain about this.

Indeed, since Miss Truss was confirmed as candidate on Monday, I have had emails
from numerous Tories about similar things happening in their seats, or voicing
fears that selection has been deliberately delayed in some of them to ensure
that robotic supporters of the party line, rather than anyone with an
understanding of the locale, can be parachuted in shortly before the election.
No doubt the teenagers who advise Dave think this is frightfully clever. They
will have the most enormous shock when the activists upon whom they rely locally
are so disaffected by such intolerant behaviour that they don't bother to
campaign for the Tory candidate, and in some cases go out and vote Ukip.

This has also been another poisonous example of alienating the core vote. I
don't know Sir Jeremy Bagge, but I know people who do. He is a highly respected
figure in Norfolk, of which he has been High Sheriff, and has done much
charitable and voluntary work there. He is, in short, precisely the sort of
person without whom this country would cease to function even so well as it
does. Is it commendable for Dave's toadies to launch a campaign of vilification
against such a man, safe in the knowledge that since he is white,
upper-middle-class and rich, almost everybody will think he asks for it? What
sort of country do they want us to live in?

It may upset them to be reminded of it, but Sir Jeremy Bagge has as much right
to participate in politics as anybody else. Dave, a millionaire Old Etonian
himself, whose odyssey as a self-made prole becomes ever more absurd, can seek
to eliminate those with a record of noblesse oblige from his party if he wishes.
But it won't be any better off for it, believe me.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NIGEL FARAGE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY LEADER

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: COLUMNS; 5

LENGTH: 279  words


I WAS stunned by the announcement of Baroness Ashton as the new EU Foreign
Minister and headed straight for a Brussels pub prior to some TV interviews.

It was packed and centre of attention were Cathy Ashton and EU Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso.

I shook her hand as she asked what I thought. I told her she was probably, more
surprised than I was at the appointment.

Just who is Baroness Ashton, and how has she risen without trace?

What we do know is that she worked for the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (an
odd CV for someone about to take over our security and defence policy).

Other than that she has a couple of quango jobs.

The key to her rise is her marriage to Peter Kellner, well-known Blairite and
former political editor of the New Statesman.

It can only be through these links to the New Labour project of Tony that she
was sent to the House of Lords in 1999.

This is the New Labour Brave New World. Out with hereditary peers and in with
friends and donors.

Gordon Brown promoted her to leader of the House of Lords with one key task, to
push through the Lisbon Treaty.

While keeping a straight face she argued Lisbon was different from the rejected
constitution.

More importantly, she crushed any attempt to give the British people a
referendum.

Her reward was a post at the European Commission and now the ultimate prize of
Europe's Foreign Minister, a big salary and thousands of staff.

No one ever voted for her and we cannot remove her.

She embodies all that is wrong with our political class and the New Labour
project.

Yet she is ideal for a big EU role as she has never had a proper job or been
elected to office.

It's all too hard to believe, I need a drink?

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Papa Smurf and Bugs turn Britain anti-EU

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 787  words


A FEW weeks ago I popped into the headquarters of the Taxpayers' Alliance to
catch up with the leaders of that excellent campaigning organisation. Along with
Sir Andrew Green's Migration Watch, the TPA has done more than any other
organisation (including the Conservative Party) to expose the dishonesty and
incompetence of the Labour Government.

I congratulated the TPA leaders for shifting the public spending agenda to focus
on the monumental waste in public-sector budgets instead of the constant call
for more "investment". They in turn noted that the Daily Express had been the
first newspaper to champion their cause.

Once such pleasantries had been exchanged we talked about Europe. I noted that
the TPA was opening a new front highlighting the staggering financial cost of
Britain's membership of the European Union.

One of its senior figures then said something I found very surprising. He
reckoned that it would now be possible to win a referendum on taking Britain out
of the EU altogether.

I doubted it and told him so. Certainly a referendum against transferring any
more power to Brussels would be won, I agreed - that was why it was being
withheld by the political class. But the British were a pragmatic bunch and
would surely view the prospect of being cut adrift from the EU altogether as an
extreme proposition, which was why the most cravenly pro-Brussels party of all,
the Lib Dems, were proposing an "in or out" plebiscite.

The TPA assured me that detailed polling research they had studied - and they
are good at this stuff - indicated this was not the case. The stock of the EU
had fallen so low and the costs of membership risen so high that a majority of
the British public would now vote to leave.

Since that meeting we have had the debacle of the second Irish referendum, the
cross-Europe ratification of Lisbon, the capitulation of David Cameron and now
the appointment of the EU's first President and Foreign Secretary.

Anti-EU sentiment in Britain is deeper and broader than ever, embracing for the
first time in many y ears lots of people with Centre-Left views.

THE EU elite has appointed a political Papa Smurf to the former job and a
mediocre quango queen with a Bug's Bunny grin to the latter. Rumours that the
new European anthem Herman Van Rompuy wishes to impose is the Smurf Song ("where
are you all coming from? /from Smurfland where we belong") have thus far proved
impossible to verify but he is clearly a figure whose pretensions to represent
Britain in any capacity whatever are ridiculous.

Increasingly Cameron's decision to drop his implacable hostility to Lisbon looks
like a mistake. One must remember that the TPA is an early spotter of trends and
also possesses the boldness to lead public opinion. Cameron has tended to
struggle to keep pace with it.

He was very slow to renounce his pledge to match Labour's excessive spending,
slow to stop hugging hoodies and catch the public mood for tougher sentencing
and slow to understand that being sceptical about mass immigration did not
constitute a lurch to the Right but a retrieval of common sense. The suspicion
must be that Cameron and his inner-circle are so traumatised by witnessing three
Tory defeats at the hands of Tony Blair that deep down they believe only a
Blairite policy agenda can win the next election.

But things have changed. Public opinion has moved on crime, tax and immigration.
And it has also moved on Europe. Even the BBC is having to amend its long-term
"progressive" bias on some of these issues.

So Cameron's Tories are in danger of missing the powerful current of
Euroscepticism flowing through Britain. The TPA, and UKIP's Lord Pearson too are
very convincing about why leaving the EU would help rather than hinder Britain's
economy.

We import far more from them than they import from us. It is massively in
Europe's interest to reach a free trade deal with Britain.

The undemocratic imposition of the Lisbon Treaty is one of three great betrayals
of the British public by the political class this century. The other two are
entering a disastrous war in Iraq on a false prospectus and the
snouts-in-the-trough MPs' expenses racket.

Ours is a sick political culture in desperate need of renewal. Increasingly it
appears that departing from the EU is a pre-condition for democratic revival.
Only if we take such a step will we be able to regain control of our borders and
cut ourselves free of the thicket of international laws and conventions forcing
us to elevate the rights of criminals and failed asylum seekers above those of
law-abiding citizens.

David Cameron has made his call on Europe: better off putting up with it. But it
looks like the British public are reaching a different view: better off out.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOVE-IN: Herman Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton, above, congratulate
each other on being appointed President and Foreign Minister of the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Anger at job for unknown Labour 'crony'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 240  words


A BACKLASH is growing over Labour crony Baroness Cathy Ashton's appointment as
EU Higher Representative for Foreign Affairs.

Critics said she was inexperienced and claimed her work for CND in the 1970s
made her unsuitable to take responsibility for defence and security.

Baroness Ashton rejected claims that she got the GBP 200,000-a-year job thanks
to a grubby compromise brokered by Gordon Brown. "I think quite a few people
would say I am the best one for the job, " she insisted, "and I was chosen
because I am."

Her appointment was a big surprise in diplomatic circles. Virtually unknown
outside Westminster and Brussels, she has gone from running Hertfordshire Health
Authority 10 years ago to being the most powerful British woman since Lady
Thatcher.

But she won Mr Brown's praise after steering the widely despised Lisbon Treaty
through the Lords.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: "This process rubs our noses in how undemocratic
the EU is. Lady Ashton is a lifelong quangocrat who has never once been elected
to anything."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "She signs an oath to a foreign power and has a
track record of wishing to strip us of our defences - not something to fill us
with confidence."

But Downing Street moved to defend her selection. "She was involved with CND a
long time ago, " a spokesman said. "We should all be delighted that we have got
a British woman in a senior role in Europe. Her pedigree is completely
appropriate."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

Reply: Letters and emails: Hymn to Belgium's EU president

BYLINE: J Fanshawe

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 116 words


Having been a "broad church" supporter of the EU for many years, I am so angry
about the "stitch-up" that I fear I may even vote for Ukip. For a group of
nations which claims to hold sacrosanct the concept of democratically elected
governments, the secretive and cabalistic nature of the appointments of
president and foreign minister over a dinner in Brussels is despicable. And then
to choose two unknown and minor officials to fulfil what should have been
significant and respected posts makes the EU a laughing stock among the other
major players in global politics. Shame on Sarkozy and Merkel and the other
European leaders who allowed this travesty to take place.

J Fanshawe

Twyford, Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It must be you - but just who are you?

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Suzy Jagger; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 574 words


The poor relationship between Lord Mandelson and his successor as Trade
Commissioner is an open secret at the top levels of the Government.

Although he has kept his contempt private, Baroness Ashton of Upholland let her
view slip in the first interview after since replacing him. "Everyone has their
own style," she began. "Peter did a fantastic job in my view, but I bring a
different style." She added: "I don't know any oligarchs. I don't think I've
ever been on anyone's yacht."

It is little surprise, then, that the First Secretary had other choices in mind
when it came to deciding who should secure Britain's place in the new
Commission. But the dismay on both sides of the Channel after she was confirmed
victorious goes wider than personal animosity.

Even she concedes a fair degree of incredulity. Late on Thursday night, she
chose the Kitty O'Shea Irish pub, a well-known haunt of Eurocrats, to celebrate.
Bumping into Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party MEP, she asked whether he
was shocked at her appointment. "Not as surprised as you, I suspect," Mr Farage
replied.

Her conciliatory tone on the radio yesterday morning - it might take years to
show that she was the best person for the job, she said - reflected an early
awareness of the sort of sulphuric briefing taking place back in London. "To
think we wanted Blair and we ended up with Cathy Ashton. It's such an indictment
of Gordon," said one member of the Government.

It appears that her time in the Lords, after being ennobled in 1999, has left
her with a string of enemies. When she was elevated to be Leader of the Lords in
2007, one of the first measures was to remove the civil servant staff of
Baroness Amos and, with them, decades of collective institutional knowledge.
Another move was to lock the interconnecting door between her new office and
that of the Chief Whip. She caused consternation by forcing the holder of the
office, Lord Grocott, to make an appointment like anyone else.

Such behaviour is said to typify a grand style, according to enemies, who also
describe her as very exacting over protocol, particularly at airports.

She has, however, won friends and is extremely gregarious. "A lot of people have
underestimated Lady A but just sometimes the good guy wins," said Shami
Chakrabarti, director of Liberty.

Another friend says she prospered in Labour politics through straightdealing and
staying out of the party's tribal wars. It is said that enmities can be traced
to her speaking out in Cabinet against the proposed extension of pre-charge
detention to 42 days.

Her pursuit of civil liberties is born of earlier personal experience. In 1984
it emerged that her role in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament had earned her
notoriety within MI5, who put her under surveillance. She was recorded as "a
communist sympathiser" on the ground that she shared a house with a member of
the Communist Party.

The baroness and her husband, the pollster Peter Kellner, have been a prominent
social couple. "I like to see my friends - and I love cooking, so we have lots
of dinner parties," she told interviewers.

"With five children aged between 15 and 30, there is always something going on."

José Manuel Barroso, the President of the European Commission, had been pleased
that the job of Trade Commissioner had gone to a woman, she said, "because he
was trying to get as many women in his Commission as possible".

"They didn't even ask me to do the after-dinner speech"

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: They didn't even ask me to do the after-dinner speech"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday

THE GREAT EU STITCH-UP

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES IN BRUSSELS AND JAMES CHAPMAN

LENGTH: 1347 words


A VIRTUALLY unknown Labour crony was last night installed as Europe's first
'foreign secretary'.

In a move derided as an EU stitch-up, Baroness Ashton was Britain's '
consolation prize' after Tony Blair's dream of the presidency was crushed.

The similarly low-profile Belgian prime minister Herman Van Rompuy ñ who favours
the introduction of EU-wide taxes and the abolition of national flags and
anthems ñ was named president.

He had been hot favourite to win the job as Mr Blair's bid crumbled in recent
days.

But the elevation of Lady Ashton ñ who only eight years ago was head of
Hertfordshire Health Authority ñ to EU high representative had been unexpected.

Lady Ashton herself was so unprepared for her promotion last night that she had
no speech ready when she held a joint press conference with Mr Van Rompuy.

Yet her new role will make her one of the world's most powerful unelected
figures.

She will also be in charge of thousands of staff and have the run of a
grace-andfavour home in Brussels. Lady Ashton helped steer the Lisbon Treaty,
which has created her new job, through Parliament without a referendum as Labour
leader in the House of Lords.

Since then, she has had an unimpressive spell as EU trade commissioner.

Her appointment came as Gordon Brown ditched his support for Mr Blair's
audacious bid to win the new EU presidency.

The former prime minister was dumped by Mr Brown before the EU's 27 leaders even
started what had been billed as a marathon private meeting in Brussels to select
a candidate for the post.

Downing Street said it had 'become clear that the chances of a Blair presidency,
for a number of good reasons, were declining'.

Mr Brown last night welcomed Lady Ashton's appointment as High Representative
for Foreign and Security Policy. The Prime Minister said she would also hold the
vicepresidency of the European Commission.

'It gives Britain a powerful voice both within the council and the commission,'
Mr Brown said. 'It will ensure, of course, that Britain's voice is very loud and
clear.'

But, adding to the sense that Lady Ashton had been plucked from obscurity, Mr
Brown repeatedly referred to her as 'Cathy Ashdown'.

Lady Ashton had to be called on the telephone to see if she would accept the job
once Mr Brown dropped his backing for Mr Blair. Dashing to the summit after a
swift celebratory drink with some of her team of EU Commission trade officials,
she said: 'I am very honoured and proud to have been asked to take on this
role.'

She added: 'I will make sure I represent our values across the world, and I will
endeavour to do in my own way the best that I can.'

Lady Ashton will head up a 5,000-strong EU diplomatic service with 120 embassies
around the globe, and have a say in the allocation of the bloc's £6.5billion
foreign aid budget.

The job is expected to attract a salary of more than £200,000 a year, along with
a grace-and-favour home and lavish expenses.

A former employee of CND, Lady Ashton will now be responsible for Europe's
security and defence policy.

The Prime Minister said he still felt that Mr Blair ñ whom he backed for the
presidency ñ would have been 'excellent'.

But he added: 'As the week went by it became clear that the EPP [the centreright
grouping in the European Parliament] wanted to have one of their own members as
president of the council.'

A senior No 10 source said Mr Brown's backing of Mr Blair, long after his
chances had faded, had given Britain 'leverage' to get Lady Ashton the job as
the second most powerful figure in the EU.

Friends of the bruised former prime minister ñ nicknamed 'Boney Blair' for his
Napoleonic ambitions ñ said he was deeply disappointed by his rejection.

Mr Blair's biographer Anthony Seldon said the former prime minister was so angry
over Tories' decision to try to torpedo his bid that he is willing to set aside
his differences with Mr Brown and campaign for him in next year's General
Election.

But he said Mr Blair's failure to get the EU post had also 'whetted his appetite
for another big international role'.

Some EU leaders feared that they might be overshadowed by Mr Blair's
grandstanding on the world stage.

By contrast, Mr Van Rompuy, 62, and Lady Ashton, 53, are both virtually unknown
outside their own countries.

Leaked documents yesterday revealed that the president will have a salary of
£320,000, far in excess of the £197,000 paid to Mr Brown or the £245,000
received by U.S. president Barack Obama.

The total cost of the president and his team to the taxpayer is expected to top
£5.5million a year.

Mr Van Rompuy somewhat cryptically promised to listen to all EU members. 'Even
though our unity is our strength, our diversity remains our wealth,' he said. He
is expected to take office on January 1.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'The EU has this
evening appointed two political pygmies who have the power to remove the last
vestiges of democracy from the UK.

'Baroness Ashton is ideal for the role. She's never had a proper job, and never
been elected to public office.'

Lorraine Mullally, director of the think-tank Open Europe, said: 'This is an
outrageous stitch-up by Europe's elite.

'Meeting over a nice big dinner and behind closed doors 27 people in Brussels
will decide on the two biggest jobs in Europe while the 500million citizens they
are supposed to represent are expected just to hang on and wait for the
outcome.'

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague, however, congratulated Mr Van Rompuy and
Lady Ashton on their appointments.

THE FANATICAL FEDERALIST

IN Herman van Rompuy, the European Union has, as so often before, picked a man
with the least number of enemies.

The Belgian premier fitted the bill admirably because, having been in that job
for 11 months, few people outside his own nation had heard of him, let alone
fallen out with the man.

But he is ñ like so many politicians from tiny countries who see Brussels as
their step up on to the world stage ñ a fanatical believer in taking power from
national parliaments and giving it to the EU. And he will ñ in a quiet,
unconfrontational way ñ try to use his two-and-a-half-year term to promote his
federalist beliefs.

This week he announced that it was high time the EU started imposing its own
taxes. He also backs replacing 'national symbols' such as licence plates,
identity cards, sporting events, flags and national anthems with their EU
equivalents.

Economist Mr van Rompuy, 62, has garnered much of the credit for apparently
dragging his nation back from the brink of collapse.

So the Belgians love him and his low-key and idiosyncratic style. He's also
known for composing Japanese haiku poetry, such as: 'A lost fly/flies
wanderingly in a plane/Thus she is flying twice/'.

Nevertheless, we may all come to rue the day that Herman van Rompuy was seen as
a soft option.

-

THE ULTIMATE QUANGO QUEEN

EIGHT years ago, she was chairman of Hertfordshire Health Authority. But last
night Labour's Cathy Ashton bagged one of the most powerful unelected jobs in
the Western world.

Ennobled in 1999 by Tony Blair, the former charity worker and bureaucrat has
'risen without trace' under Gordon Brown.

Baroness Ashton of Upholland will now be able to rule the roost over thousands
of staff from a grace-andfavour home in Brussels. And, despite having
desperately little foreign affairs experience, she will find herself
representing the European Union in capitals all over the world.

It is a remarkable rise for a woman who is virtually unknown in Britain, let
alone in Europe.

She took her name from the town near Wigan in which she was born in

1956. She is married to the political commentator Peter Kellner.

Her work in charities and health brought her to the attention of Labour high
command. But it was when Gordon Brown took office that her star really began to
rise.

She became Leader of the House of Lords and Lord President of the Council in his
first cabinet in June 2007 and when Lord Mandelson returned to the Cabinet last
October, was on hand to step into his shoes as EU trade commissioner. Now she
will be EU 'high representative' for foreign affairs and security policy.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday

Surprise at EU leaders' choice to be the voice of Europe

BYLINE: James Kirkup and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 724  words


A LITTLE-KNOWN Belgian federalist and a Labour peer who has never held elected
office were last night chosen as the European Union's new president and foreign
minister.

EU leaders meeting in Brussels appointed Herman Van Rompuy, the Belgian Prime
Minister, as the first President of the European Council. Baroness Ashton,
Britain's European Commissioner, will be the union's High Representative for
Foreign Affairs.

The jobs were created by the EU's Lisbon Treaty, which will take force next
month. EU leaders made the appointments over a dinner of wild mushrooms and sea
bass in Brussels last night.

The surprise combination emerged after Gordon Brown ended Tony Blair's hopes of
becoming president, abandoning his support for his predecessor and proposing
Lady Ashton for the foreign job instead.

The Prime Minister's switch caught European leaders off guard, not least because
of Lady Ashton's lack of diplomatic experience. A former health authority
chairman made a peer in 1999, she held a string of low-key ministerial posts
until last year, when she was sent to Brussels as an interim replacement for
Lord Mandelson on his return to the Cabinet.

Mr Van Rompuy is a poetry-writing economist almost entirely unknown outside
Belgium until he emerged as the EU leaders' choice for a president who could not
possibly overshadow national leaders. A staunch advocate of European
integration, he has backed policies including an EU tax on financial
transactions.

Mr Brown lauded him as "a diplomat and a statesman''. The choice of low-key
candidates for the new posts reflects European leaders' reluctance to transfer
too much power to Brussels-based officials. Originally, the two jobs created by
the Lisbon Treaty were intended to give the EU a strong and unified voice in
global affairs.

But Lady Ashton's lack of experience on the diplomatic stage was criticised last
night. One French official said: "She has little experience and is a bizarre
choice.''

Lorraine Mullally, of the Open Europe think-tank, said: "Most people in Europe
have never even heard of Herman Van Rompuy or Catherine Ashton, yet here they
are to represent us in the global arena. Surely Europe can do better than
this?''

Lady Ashton only emerged as the foreign policy chief after European socialist
leaders told Mr Brown they would back a British candidate for the post, but
would not support Mr Blair for president. Before Lady Ashton was chosen, Lord
Mandelson and Geoff Hoon, the former defence secretary, were also discussed as
candidates.

The peer herself only discovered she was being nominated for the post at 5pm
last night. On her appointment, she admitted: "It is perhaps a measure of my
slight surprise that I do not have a speech written.'' At a press conference, Mr
Brown told British voters to welcome Lady Ashton's appointment. "I think people
should be pleased,'' he said.

The Prime Minister insisted the new foreign policy chief was a significant
figure, but appeared to undermine his argument by getting her name wrong, at one
point calling her "Cathy Ashdown'' before correcting himself.

One British source said that by proposing her for the job, Mr Brown was ensuring
that the high representative could not be considered Europe's foreign minister.
The source said: "This means the job is not a foreign minister job, it's a job
of co-ordinating policies among 27 members.''

The Conservatives strongly opposed Mr Blair's candidacy for the presidency,
threatening a "five-year war'' with the rest of the EU if he got the job.

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, congratulated Mr Van Rompuy and
Lady Ashton and promised to work with them "in the national interest''. He said:
"I am very pleased that those of us across Europe who said that the President
should be a chairman, not a chief, have won the argument.'' The UK Independence
Party called Mr Van Rompuy and Lady Ashton "political pygmies who have the power
to remove the last vestiges of democracy from the UK''.

Anthony Seldon, Mr Blair's biographer, said that the former prime minister was
"disappointed'' at what he saw as a lack of support for his candidacy in
Britain. But one British government source expressed irritation that Mr Blair
persistently refused to declare himself a candidate for the post, insisting that
he would not seek the job but would accept it if it was offered to him.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Myth that jobs would be lost if we pulled out of EU

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 116  words


WOULD it be right for Britain to pull out of Europe, asked the Daily Express
yesterday. Well, we've always traded successfully with other nations in Europe,
especially with EU member states, and the rest of the world, too.

But efforts have been made to brainwash us into believing that if Britain pulled
out of the corrupt and fraudulent EU, thousands of jobs would be lost. However,
that wouldn't be the case at all, provided we were competitive in global
markets.

Being in the EU is one thing, but being ruled by the EU is something much worse.
As none of the major parties appears to have the courage to get Britain out of
the EU, we'll have to vote for UKIP at the election.

Erich Maidl, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 320,000 A YEAR EU BOSS NOBODY WANTED;
AND IT'S VAN ROMPUY JUST AS WE SAID

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 494  words


EUROPE'S president will become the western world's highest paid leader, picking
up a massive GBP 320,000 salary, it was revealed last night.

The unelected figurehead - the largely unknown Belgian prime minister, Herman
Van Rompuy - will get a private offie costing taxpayers more than GBP 5million a
year.

Details of the lavishly funded job, on which no one in Britain has been given a
say, emerged in a confi dential document as European Union leaders confirmed the
appointment in Brussels last night.

Mr Van Rompuy, 62, an arch-federalist who wants to introduce sweeping
tax-raising powers, was awarded the job as predicted in the Daily Express this
week.

And in a secretive deal brokered by Prime Minister Gordon Brown, Labour crony
Baroness Ashton received the plum globetrotting job as EU foreign affairs chief.
The lucrative appointments ignited widespread anger, especially as Britons were
not given a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty that created them.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "This is rather like the way they used to choose
leaders in communist China or the former Yugoslavia.

"It is not how leaders should be chosen in a democracy. It shows the lack of
accountability at the heart of the European Union."

Lorraine Mullally of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is an outrageous
stitch-up and a perfect illustration of just how out-of-touch and
anti-democratic the EU is.

"Meeting over a nice big dinner and behind closed doors, 27 people in Brussels
will decide on the two biggest jobs in Europe while the 500 million citizens
they are supposed to represent are expected just to hang on and wait for the
outcome.

"When the new president and foreign minister are wheeled out for all to see,
they will have no mandate at all to act on our behalf.

"This is a blow to democracy and the EU should be ashamed of itself."

A dossier obtained by Open Europe yesterday revealed details of the first EU
President's remuneration package.

On the equivalent of GBP 320,000, he will earn more than America's President
Barack Obama, who gets GBP 250,000 and over a third more than Gordon Brown, who
earns GBP 194,250.

Added to that, he will pay just 25 per cent income tax.

The appointment of Baroness Ashton sparked widespread astonishment in diplomatic
circles last night since the 53-year-old Labour peer, ennobled by Tony Blair in
1999, has never held a senior elected position.

But the Prime Minister's spokesman described her as "someone well respected in
the corridors of Brussels" and added: "This is a big victory for Gordon Brown."

Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, said: "It is an outrageous burden on
taxpayers to pay an unelected bureaucrat more than the President of the United
States."

Of the appointments of Mr Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton, he said: "We have a
pair of pygmies given the two top jobs in Europe.

"Cathy Ashton has one advantage - she has never been elected to anything in her
life and that will suit the way they do things in the EU."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 20, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: Dull, imperfect, but let's all cheer Van Rompuy's victory: The
dystopic European vision peddled by the Tories, the media et al has been shown
to be a malicious fantasy

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1085 words


It is not hard to guess what the Duke of Wellington, who knew a thing or two
about big European nights in Brussels, would have said if he had found himself
back in the Belgian capital yesterday evening. "Who? Who?" the by then ancient
Iron Duke called out as he was read the list of obscure ministerial nominees to
the Earl of Derby's new Tory government in 1852.

Derby's government has duly gone down in history as the "Who? Who?" cabinet. And
the first reaction of many people across Europe to the EU's first key
appointments under the Lisbon Treaty will be the same as Wellington's was back
then.

Whatever their individual merits, or the unexpectedly smooth cleverness of the
Swedish brokered agreement under which they were appointed there is no point
pretending that either Herman van Rompuy or Cathy Ashton are household names
anywhere in Europe except around their own dining tables.

Europe's two top jobs have been filled not by big-hitters, nor by stars, nor by
politicians with global or galactic name recognition, let alone by leaders whose
presence would stop traffic. The new president of the European council and the
new European foreign policy "high representative" have got their jobs precisely
because they are low profile, technocratic choices.

That is because, when it came down to it last night, the EU's 27 member states
opted for the quiet life not the exciting life, and for the status quo rather
than the great unknown. They decided that they preferred to remain the 27
biggest fish in the European pond, though some will always be decidedly bigger
than others, and not to import a pair of unbiddable sharks who might start to
gobble them all up.

Many will criticise the EU27 for that, and the loudest criticism in this country
will undoubtedly come from those who will use any stick to beat the European
dog. William Hague, for example, used a Financial Times article this week to
promote the presidency claims of Van Rompuy against those of Tony Blair, even
though Blair's view of Europe is infinitely closer to that of the Conservative
leadership than that of any Belgian prime minister, especially one with a taste
of European tax harmonisation.

More principled observers - and more pro-European ones - will have their own,
more seriously meant criticisms. For them, the choices of Van Rompuy and Ashton
suggest that the EU remains in thrall to the lowest common denominator politics
of deals made behind closed doors and, by the same token, is collectively averse
to taking risky or difficult decisions that threaten the EU's comfort zone, even
when such decisions are in Europe's longer term interests.

The latter is a more genuine concern. There is little in last night's
appointments which will cause anyone in the Washington or Beijing to believe
that they must suddenly take Europe's views about world events more seriously.
The G2 world of which David Miliband has warned is not about to become a G3
through the appointment of van Rompuy, the way it might have done if Blair had
got the job.

It is true that a Blair presidency might have caused nearly as many tensions as
it would have resolved. On balance, it is a great European missed opportunity -
not least for 90 million Turks whose wish to take their place as Europeans has
again been spurned - that Blair did not get the job. But the EU's more hostile
critics cannot be allowed to have it both ways. They cannot complain that the
Lisbon treaty creates a putative European superstate so threatening that it must
be resisted in the last ditch and then, with their next breath, denounce the EU
for its pusillanimity in appointing relative lightweights to its top jobs.

Last night's Brussels summit nevertheless sent a very strong signal to anyone
with the objectivity to read it properly. It signalled that the appetite for
European constitution building that dominated European affairs for the past
quarter century is over for the foreseeable future. It signalled that Europeans
now want a period of efficient consolidation rather than change. It signalled
that nation states still want to be Europe's final arbiters. And it signalled
that the federalist project is stalled.

It signalled, one should also add, that the more benign interpretation of the
Lisbon treaty put forward here by Labour, the Liberal Democrats and all too few
in the British press has been vindicated by the caution of last night's
appointments, and that the dystopic vision peddled by the Tories, Ukip, the BNP
and the Europhobic media majority has been shown to be the malicious fantasy
that too few of us have always insisted.

If the argument about Europe, especially the argument in this country, was a
rational one, this moment would tell our political parties, our press and our
people that this is actually an imperfect Europe which suits us rather well, and
in whose success we should invest. Deal-making of the sort we saw in Brussels is
good politics not dirty politics. Making this kind of Europe work is not only in
our own interest, important though that obviously is, but also in the interests
of millions of Europeans who until very recently have lived in greater poverty,
insecurity and danger than most of us have. This is a Europe to which any future
British government, including a Tory one, should commit. No messing.

Van Rompuy said enough last night to suggest he understands that the post-Lisbon
EU, warts and all, is the one we must all live with now. He needs to stick to
that approach. Ashton, whose selection is both an extraordinary surprise and a
reminder that the other 26 value Britain's role more than we often realise, is a
very able centre-left realist. The main reason that she is so little known in
her own country is because our media is shamefully uninterested in taking Europe
seriously. Once again, we like to have it both ways, ignoring Europe altogether
or sneering from the grandstand but then dismissing its politicians as unknowns.

One day, nevertheless, the EU will have the confidence to choose heavier hitters
to lead it. I hope that Angela Merkel has her eye on succeeding van Rompuy. For
that to happen, though, we must first see how the Van Rompuy/Ashton/Barroso
Europe beds down, and then be consistent enough to follow the logic of any
dissatisfaction with last night's appointment process by electing Europe's next
president in an EU-wide poll. The time for that kind of democratic leap is not
yet. Eventually, though, we must stop asking "Who? Who?" and instead ask "Why
not?"

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 20, 2009 Friday

The EU's opaque transparency

BYLINE: Adam LeBorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 647 words

ABSTRACT

Adam LeBor: It would be hard to imagine a less democratic process for appointing
the EU president. I should know - I tried to

FULL TEXT

The news from Brussels is something to slowly savour. For those of us in the
Euro-project sceptic camp, the announcement that two of the grandest positions
in the world, Europe's de facto president and foreign minister, are to be filled
by a  is joyous indeed. Finally, a famous Belgian. Or about to be. And we are at
least to be spared Tony Blair.

But the farcical process by which Herman Van Rompuy and Lady Ashton, two
undoubted luminaries of public life, even if unknown to the vast majority of the
population of the 27 EU member states, were selected, is even more delicious.
Ukip's leaders must surely be skipping round their maypole this morning. And
David Cameron must have his head in his hands as once again, the EU has
confirmed every Eurosceptic's suspicions of the creeping, inexorable growth of
the superstate whose leaders huddle in secret conclaves before telling us what
is good for us. Which once again, is not democracy.

I live in Budapest, the very heart of the new Europe. For the past 20 years or
so I have watched the EU cajole - even force - the region's newly free nations
to democratise, open up their political processes and campaign for greater
transparency. Indeed transparency is one of the EU's favourite buzzwords:
transparency lets citizens know how and why decisions are taken, who is involved
in the process and what benefits may or may not accrue to them during that
process. Transparency is certainly A Good Thing. But so is hilarity, and it was
with hilarity that I read quite how Van Rompuy and Ashton were selected. This
process, it is fair to say, was not very transparent.

, last week Van Rompuy met the various luminaries of the Bilderberg group at a
conclave in a chateau outside Brussels. The Bilderberg group is a , and not
without reason. Its members include numerous current and former world political
leaders and statesmen and its proceedings are extremely secretive. It is the
very opposite of transparent, although its members insist it is merely a talking
shop for the global elite and nothing to worry about. It seems Van Rompuy passed
muster, for he then reached the second stage of the selection process. What
might that be? A Europe-wide vote against a competing candidate? Not bloody
likely. A single candidate referendum with a yes or no option? Non. A poll by
SMS text? Nein. An internet poll? Nem. A call-in radio show? No. A stitch-up
over the sea bass? Ja, danke.

I should declare an interest here. Earlier this year I published a thriller, ,
about the rise of the European superstate. It was inspired by a 1944 US wartime
intelligence document called the Red House report that I obtained. The document
outlines the secret Nazi plans for the Fourth Reich, an economic rather than
military imperium, to be funded through exporting capital through Swiss banks
and so on. It made unsettling reading.

The fictional conspiracy in The Budapest Protocol revolves around a Manchurian
candidate for president of Europe who is selected by a sinister cabal of
industrialists and politicians known as the Directorate. Frank Sanzlermann, its
candidate, is an Austrian arch-Euro federalist. He is groomed for years by the
directorate before being anointed at a secretive dinner in a Budapest hotel. All
that is fantasy of course, and there is no suggestion that the Bilderberg Group,
Van Rompuy or Lady Ashton are secretly working for dark forces. But at least in
my novel the Directorate, unlike the EU, had the sense to go through the motions
of putting Sanzlermann's candidacy to a popular vote - even if it planned to fix
the election.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                 2 Star Edition

ROMPUY ROMPS IT;
BELGIAN POETRY FAN BEATS BLAIR TO BECOME NEW EURO PRESIDENT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words


TONY Blair's dream of becoming EU president was last night shattered by a
little-know Belgian.

Poetry fan Herman van Rompuy was installed as the new chief in Brussels after
winning massive support.

The backing of France and Germany ensured the 62-year-old landed the pounds
320,000-a-year job.

But Gordon Brown still claimed the outcome was a victory for Britain after
former EU trade figure Baroness Ashton became Europe's High Representative for
Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.

The PM said: "It will ensure Britain's voice is loud and clear in Europe. She is
the first woman to hold such a high position in Europe. Another prejudice is
broken down." But the decision to appoint van Rompuy in a meeting behind closed
doors was branded "EU politics at its very worst" by the Open Europe pressure
group.

Director Lorraine Mullally said: "This is a perfect illustration of just how
antidemocratic the EU now is."

The UK Independence Party was angry big names didn't get the jobs and claimed
van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton were "political pygmies".

Mr Blair blamed a lack of Tory support for his defeat.

His biographer Anthony Seldon said the former PM was "disappointed many of his
friends in Europe, and a number of fellow countrymen, didn't do more for his
cause".

2 THINGS YOU DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT OUR NEW EU PRESIDENT

Centre-right Prime Minister of Belgium

Has only ever attended two European summits

Keen writer of Haiku, a form of Japanese poetry which must be three-lines, 17
syllables long

His most famous Haiku was written during an EU summit about a fly: "A fly zooms,
buzzes; Spins and is lost in the room; He does no one harm."

Economist by profession who worked at Belgian central bank from 1972 to 1975

He met his wife Geetrui, a botanist, when they sat next to each other on a plane

She nicknamed him Rambo

His sister Christine Van Rompuy is a member of the Workers Party of Belgium,
which portrayed him as a clown

Backs a tax on banks to reduce deficit.

He has written six books, mainly on social and political issues, and is an avid
blogger

He likes to holiday in a camper van

When his name was first mentioned as a candidate journalists found him pushing
his grandson in a pushchair in the rain

He is son of a university lecturer

He has four children - two boys and two girls

He supports Anderlecht football club

He turned down the job of Belgian Prime Minister three times

He drinks lager

He has a mongrel dog called Louis

He has 616 friends on Facebook where he puts up pictures of himself on holiday
wearing shorts

His favourite saying is: "I am always pessimistic, in the hope of being
surprised."

HAIKU TRIBUTE TO ROMPUY, BY BOB ROBERTS

So then it is Rompuy He is the guy Many here ask simply: why

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRIUMPH Ashton I'M THE VAN Rompuy after his EU victory last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

ROMPUY AND FRUMPY;
WHO'S THAT IN CHARGE OF EU 'Unknown' Belgian and Labour crony run Europe in
Blair snub

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 695 words


EUROPE'S obscure new President Herman Van Rompuy was celebrating his
£320,000-a-year job last night - together with Baroness Ashton, the equally
little-known British peer named as EU foreign minister.

But others greeted the appointments with dismay, and one Brussels official
moaned: "We've just given the two biggest jobs in Europe to Rumpy and Frumpy.
It's unbelievable."

The decision, made after a day of bargaining among EU leaders, was a humiliating
rejection for ex-PM Tony Blair. And it was a major snub to Gordon Brown, who had
spent weeks urging Europe's leaders to choose Mr Blair for President. As a
consolation prize, Britain's EU Commissioner Baroness Ashton was put in charge
of EU foreign policy.

As leaders later toasted themselves with fine wines and feasted on sea bass,
critics blasted the selection as a stitch-up.

Mr Brown was forced to drop his support for Mr Blair after socialist leaders
refused to back the ex-PM at a crunch meeting.

Mr Blair's hopes were left in tatters when French President Nicolas Sarkozy and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel both backed Mr Van Rompuy.

In a bid to limit the damage, Mr Brown persuaded socialists to back Baroness
Ashton for the foreign job instead.

Ashamed

She will now control the EU's £7billion overseas aid budget - and preside over
more than 5,000 diplomats and 120 embassies.

But critics blasted the move as an insult to democracy, and said Baroness
Ashton, 53, was a New Labour crony who had never been elected to any position.

Campaign group Open Europe said: "This is an outrageous stitch-up by Europe's
elite.

"Meeting behind closed doors, 27 people in Brussels decide on the two biggest
jobs in Europe while the 500 million citizens they are supposed to represent
hang on for the outcome. This is a blow to democracy - the EU should be ashamed
of itself."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Baroness Ashton is ideal for
the role. She's never had a proper job, and never been elected to public office.
Naturally, from an EU point of view, that makes her ideally qualified to become
the most powerful person in Europe."

Baroness Ashton made no impact in six years as a junior member of the Blair
government, before becoming Labour's leader in the Lords in 2007.

There was shock when Mr Brown chose her for EU commissioner in 2008. Just over a
year later, she has landed one of the biggest jobs in Europe. Friends of Mr
Blair said he was bitterly disappointed - and furious that Tory leader David
Cameron had warned Europe not to give him the top job.

Mr Brown dismissed questions about the failure of his campaign, insisting he had
"protected Britain's national interest in Europe".

Leaked EU documents reveal the new President will cost taxpayers £5.5million a
year. The bill includes his £320,000 salary, which dwarfs US President Barack
Obama's £245,000 pay.

Millions more will be spent on a 22-strong private office and at least ten
bodyguards.

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

No need for votes

BARONESS Ashton has never had to worry about voters.

The ex-charity worker and lobbyist did not stand for election to get into
politics ten years ago. Tony Blair handed her a peerage instead.

The 53-year-old made no impression in six years as a junior minister in
education and justice - but still ended up Labour leader in the Lords.

And there was amazement in Westminster and Brussels last year when Gordon Brown
chose her to succeed Peter Mandelson as EU trade commissioner.

Married to Left-wing pollster Peter Kellner, she has two kids and three
step-children.

A friend of Neil and Glenys Kinnock, she is the former chairman of Hertfordshire
health authority and boss of the National Council for One Parent Families.

my View

By GRAEME WILSON Deputy Political Editor

THEY just don't get it.

Europe's two most powerful jobs were handed out yesterday.

But the 500million people who live in the EU were given no say in who got them.

Instead, Europe's elite chose the winners of this shabby lottery.

First in secretive meetings, then over a lavish feast, they thrashed out their
sickening stitch-up. It was like the worst days of Soviet Russia.

And it exposed once again how this discredited European empire is rotten to the
core.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We've clinched it... Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton embrace yesterday
Glum... Tony Blair. Right, menu for last night's EU feast
Baroness. . Kinnock pal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How Europe came to choose a pair of troupers to perform its starring roles

BYLINE: David Chater; Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1748 words


When the concept of a new president for Europe was first drawn up by Valery
Giscard d'Estaing, it was assumed widely that the august former French President
was writing a job description for himself. It would be a role fit for a former
President of France, or Prime Minister of Britain, perhaps.

Giscard's vaunting ambitions came to nothing when his own country rejected the
EU constitution and condemned it to the recycling bin of history, where it
became the reality of the Lisbon treaty after eight years of toil.

So last night there was a palpable sense of deflation in Brussels that the two
people chosen as the faces of Europe lacked a certain stature.

While Britain had the two stand-out candidates for both the president and high
representative in Tony Blair and David Miliband, it was the unacceptability of
one and the reluctance of the other that led EU leaders to Herman Van Rompuy and
Baroness Ashton of Upholland.

It was Nicolas Sarkozy who first put Mr Blair squarely in the frame for
president - two years ago, after the Lisbon treaty was first drawn up. The
French President mused that the former British Prime Minister and Jean-Claude
Juncker of Luxembourg would both make excellent candidates.

There is nothing so vulnerable in the EU as a front-runner and Mr Blair's
enemies had plenty of time to make the case against him.

It was Mr Blair's friendship with the right-wing leaders of the EU and the
United States that would lead the Party of European Socialists (PES) to abandon
him and opt instead to push for the post of high representative, known as EU
foreign minister, while the Right would take the presidency.

Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, the former Danish Prime Minister who leads the PES, was
overjoyed yesterday that the deal it cooked up with the main centre-right group,
the European People's Party, held good.

Without any sense of irony, he said: "The outcome of these negotiations showed
that Europe's political parties can make a difference. Let's now put an end to
European backroom deals."

But it was behind the scenes where the entire selection process for the jobs
that would take Europe into a new era took place.

Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish Prime Minister, had the task of negotiating by
phone with the other 26 leaders to try to find consensus in a chaotic process
that threw out name after name as a whole series of senior figures were debated
but found unsuitable by one member state or another.

Mr Blair did not fit the Left-Right stitch-up and was felt by some to have been
too close to George W. Bush and the Iraq war.

Mr Juncker was resisted by President Sarkozy after his sluggish response to the
financial crisis. Angela Merkel contributed to the choice of a minnow as
president when she let it be known that Germany favoured a president from a
little EU country.

Europe headed inexorably towards the lowest common denominator as successive
names were rejected. Jan Peter Balkenende, the Dutch Prime Minister, remained
the main rival to Mr Van Rompuy because he, too, came from the Right and a
smallish country.

But yesterday afternoon as he arrived at the dinner in Brussels for the 27
leaders he finally ruled himself out, again suffering from having spent too long
in office and making enemies over his support for the Iraq war.

It was Mr Miliband who just two weeks ago argued for a president who would stop
the traffic. But it was his withdrawal from the fray ten days ago that cleared
the path for Baroness Ashton. Mr Miliband rejected the opportunity to become
Europe's top diplomat the day after he visited Berlin for the celebrations for
the fall of the Berlin Wall to push Mr Blair's case, only to be told by several
EU leaders that he was their choice for high representative.

It was becoming clear that the EU was minded to choose a small country president
from the Right and needed a large country high representative from the Left to
balance the ticket. Britain and Spain were the only large left-of-centre
countries available to provide a candidate.

José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero did not give up on a top financial role in the next
European Commission, so it was to Britain that the EU looked.

Gordon Brown pushed for Mr Blair last month but at yesterday's gathering before
the summit he switched to Baroness Ashton. There were senior figures at the
meeting who still wanted Mr Miliband and someone asked if Lord Mandelson was
available.

They were not and so Baroness Ashton was chosen.

The EU's leaders last night did their best to talk up the deal that they came up
with. "Basically I think the vision, the idea, was that we have more and more
cross-border problems and a deep belief in the need for European integration,"
said Mr Reinfeldt, asked if the decision matched the ambitions of the architects
of the treaty.

"What we were seeking were people to create continuity, to be the voice, the
face and the presence of Europe throughout the world. Have we achieved this?
Yes. I think we have achieved this." He did not sound too sure.Baroness Ashton
faced some hostile questioning at her first press conference about whether she
had enough experience to do the job. "Judge me on what I do and I think you will
be pleased and proud of me," she said.

How they rank

President of the European Union

£322,000

President of the United States

£240,000

President of Ireland

£220,000

Chancellor of Germany

£215,000

President of France

£210,000

Prime Minister of Belgium

£193,000

Prime Minister of Britain

£187,000

President of Russia

£60,000

Prime Minister of Slovakia

£35,000

Prime Minister of Albania

Solving the puzzle

President Herman Van Rompuy (Belgium)

High representative Baroness Ashton of Upholland (Britain)

Secretary-general Pierre de Boissieu (France)

Right-wing president balanced by left-wing high representative and politically
neutral secretary-general

Gender balance struck with a male president and female high representative

None of them has attracted controversy during their political careers

Top job goes to a small country, two other posts filled by European heavyweights

Humble motorhome fan who helped keep a nation together

President Herman Van Rompuy

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, for once voiced a sentiment
that could be endorsed by all of Europe when he said of Mr Van Rompuy yesterday:
"The list of famous Belgians will not be extended by his appointment."

Yet in his own country Mr Van Rompuy cuts a distinguished figure. After his
surprise appointment as Prime Minister last December, he is credited with
preventing linguistically divided Belgium from being torn apart. The 62-year-old
former economist reluctantly accepted the job after intense pressure from King
Albert II amid financial crisis and scandal.

The Flemish-speaking elder statesman of the right-of-centre Christian Democrat
party has helped to heal divisions with the French-speaking minority. He had
been credited with reducing the nation's massive financial deficit while budget
minister in the 1990s.

Mr Van Rompuy joined the Christian Democrats aged 16 but has insisted: "Politics
is not everything in my life. I don't like this chaotic life with high
responsibilities. I have important responsibilities, but I am not important." A
Catholic, he is reported to make monthly retreats at a Benedictine monastery.
His wife, Geetrui Windel, has said: "I am sometimes jealous because of the force
he can find in his faith."

The couple eschew high living: Mr Van Rompuy spent much of this summer at the
wheel of a motorhome navigated by his wife.

According to his internet blog his favourite reading includes Albert Camus. Last
year he read Gordon Brown's Courage: Eight Portraits.

His brother Eric is a member of the Flemish parliament. His sister Christine is
a member of the Workers Party of Belgium. They have reportedly not spoken since
she helped to produce a poster that pictured her brother as a clown during a
recent election.

Salary

(EURO)360,000 (£322,000)

Staff

50 (22 advisers in the Cabinet, 28 support staff and 10 bodyguards)

Offices

A building that will cost taxpayers £280 million is to be constructed in
Brussels to showcase the EU's growing global ambitions

Accommodation

Annual allowance still to be settled to fund suitably luxurious residence in
Brussels

'She can herd peers, so she'll have no trouble in this job'

High Representative Baroness Ashton of Upholland

Baroness Ashton of Upholland had never been elected to anything until last
night's nomination to become High Representative. But she has an extraordinary
gift for being in the right place at the right time.

The Trade Commissioner, 53, was selected by Gordon Brown to take over from Lord
Mandelson 13 months ago, partly because the Government did not want a
by-election by sending an MP.

She also ticked all the boxes when David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary,
withdrew from the contest to become the EU's high representative for Foreign and
Security Policy. Suddenly the search was on for a diplomat who was on the centre
Left and from a big country - and preferably a woman to meet the growing clamour
for female representation at the highest levels of the EU.

She has built a reputation in Brussels as a competent negotiator who achieves
results. "She may not stop the traffic but she is a good bridge builder and that
is her job," said one diplomat. "She has made an extraordinary impression in her
short time at the European Commission. The job is to build consensus among 27
leaders, and she is ideal for that."

Lady Ashton is married to Peter Kellner, one of Britain's leading pollsters and
founder of YouGov. She has two children and three stepchildren. She was elevated
to the peerage by Tony Blair in 1999 after leading Business in the Community, a
charitable organisation to fight inequality, and became a junior education
minister. After a spell as a junior minister in the Justice Department, Gordon
Brown promoted her to the Cabinet in June 2007 as Leader of the Lords.

She also pushed proposals to allow victims of forced marriages to seek
compensation under the Forced Marriages Bill in 2007.

Denis MacShane, the former Europe Minister, said: "She was Labour's best leader
in the House of Lords and anyone who can herd peers will have no trouble with EU
foreign ministers."

Salary

(EURO)216,000 (£193,000)

Staff

A new empire of 7,000 diplomats around the world as European Commission offices
are turned into 120 EU embassies

Offices

Within a current EU complex

Accommodation Annual allowance of (EURO)40,000 to fund a suitably luxurious
residence in Brussels

Entertaining Annual budget of (EURO)11,000

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Good luck in the new job: Herman Van Rompuy, who becomes the first EU
President, and Baroness Ashton of Upholland, its newly appointed High
Representative, in Brussels yesterday
DIRK WAEM BELGIUM / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

How Europe came to choose a pair of troupers to perform its starring roles

BYLINE: David Charter; Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1773 words


When the concept of a new president for Europe was first drawn up by Valery
Giscard d'Estaing, it was widely assumed that the august former French President
was writing a job description for himself. It would be a role fit for a former
President of France, or Prime Minister of Britain, perhaps.

Giscard's vaunting ambitions came to nothing when his own country rejected the
EU constitution and condemned it to the recycling bin of history, where it
became the reality of the Lisbon treaty after eight years of toil.

So, last night, there was a palpable sense of deflation in Brussels that the two
people chosen as the new faces of Europe lacked a certain stature.

While Britain had the two stand-out candidates for both the president and high
representative in Tony Blair and David Miliband, it was the unacceptability of
one and the reluctance of the other that led EU leaders to Herman Van Rompuy and
Baroness Ashton of Upholland.

It was Nicolas Sarkozy who first put Mr Blair squarely in the frame for
president - two years ago, after the Lisbon treaty was first drawn up. The
French President mused that the former British Prime Minister and Jean-Claude
Juncker of Luxembourg would both make excellent candidates.

There is nothing so vulnerable in the EU as a front-runner and Mr Blair's
enemies had plenty of time in which to make the case against him.

It was Mr Blair's friendship with the right-wing leaders of the EU and the
United States that would lead the Party of European Socialists (PES) to abandon
him and opt instead to push for the post of high representative, known as EU
foreign minister, while the Right would take the presidency.

Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, the former Danish Prime Minister who leads the PES, was
overjoyed yesterday that the deal that it cooked up with the main centre-right
group, the European People's Party, had held good. Without any sense of irony,
he said: "The outcome of these negotiations showed that Europe's political
parties can make a difference. Let's now put an end to European backroom deals."

But it was behind the scenes where the entire selection process for the jobs
that would take Europe into a new era took place.

Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish Prime Minister, had the task of negotiating by
phone with the other 26 leaders to try to find consensus in a chaotic process
that threw out name after name as a whole series of senior figures were debated
but found unsuitable by one state or another.

Mr Blair did not fit the Left-Right stitch-up and was felt by some to have been
too close to George W. Bush and the Iraq war. Mr Juncker was resisted by
President Sarkozy after his sluggish response to the financial crisis. Angela
Merkel contributed to the choice of a minnow as president when she let it be
known that Germany favoured a president from a little EU country.

Europe headed inexorably towards the lowest common denominator as successive
names were rejected. Jan Peter Balkenende, the Dutch Prime Minister, remained
the main rival to Mr Van Rompuy because he, too, came from the Right and a
smallish country.

But, yesterday afternoon, as he arrived at the dinner in Brussels for the 27
leaders, Mr Balkenende finally ruled himself out, again suffering from having
spent too long in office and making enemies over his support for the Iraq war.

It was Mr Miliband who just two weeks ago argued for a president who would stop
the traffic. But it was his withdrawal from the fray ten days ago that cleared
the path for Baroness Ashton. Mr Miliband rejected the opportunity to become
Europe's top diplomat the day after he visited Berlin for the celebrations for
the fall of the Berlin Wall to push Mr Blair's case, only to be told by several
EU leaders that he was their choice for high representative.

It was becoming clear that the EU was minded to choose a small-country president
from the Right and needed a large-country high representative from the Left to
balance the ticket.

Britain and Spain were the only large left-of-centre countries available to
provide a candidate.

José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero did not give up on a top financial role in the next
European Commission, so it was to Britain that the EU looked.

Gordon Brown had pushed for Mr Blair last month but, at yesterday's gathering
before the summit, he switched horses to Baroness Ashton. There were senior
figures at the meeting who still wanted Mr Miliband and someone asked if Lord
Mandelson was available. They were not and so Baroness Ashton won the vote.

The EU's leaders then did their best to talk up the deal that they came up with
last night. "Basically I think the vision, the idea, was that we have more and
more cross-border problems and a deep belief in the need for European
integration," said Mr Reinfeldt when asked if the decision matched the ambitions
of the architects of the treaty. "What we were seeking were people to create
continuity, to be the voice, the face and the presence of Europe throughout the
world. Have we achieved this? Yes. I think we have achieved this." He did not
sound too sure.

Baroness Ashton then faced some hostile questioning at her first press
conference about whether she had enough experience to do the job. "Judge me on
what I do and I think you will be pleased and proud of me," she said.

Online

Red Box Sam Coates's blog about politics and spin at Westminster
timesonline.co.uk/redbox

Humble motorhome fan who helped keep a nation together

President Herman Van Rompuy

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, for once voiced a sentiment
that could be endorsed by all of Europe when he said of Mr Van Rompuy yesterday:
"The list of famous Belgians will not be extended by his appointment."

Yet in his own country Mr Van Rompuy cuts a distinguished figure. After his
surprise appointment as Prime Minister last December, he is credited with
preventing linguistically divided Belgium from being torn apart. The 62-year-old
former economist reluctantly accepted the job after intense pressure from King
Albert II amid financial crisis and scandal.

The Flemish-speaking elder statesman of the right-of-centre Christian Democrat
party has helped to heal divisions with the French-speaking minority. He had
been credited with reducing the nation's massive financial deficit while budget
minister in the 1990s.

Mr Van Rompuy joined the Christian Democrats aged 16 but has insisted: "Politics
is not everything in my life. I don't like this chaotic life with high
responsibilities. I have important responsibilities, but I am not important." A
Catholic, he is reported to make monthly retreats at a Benedictine monastery.
His wife, Geetrui Windel, has said: "I am sometimes jealous because of the force
he can find in his faith."

The couple eschew high living: Mr Van Rompuy spent much of this summer at the
wheel of a motorhome navigated by his wife.

According to his internet blog his favourite reading includes Albert Camus. Last
year he read Gordon Brown's Courage: Eight Portraits.

His brother Eric is a member of the Flemish parliament. His sister Christine is
a member of the Workers Party of Belgium. They have reportedly not spoken since
she helped to produce a poster that pictured her brother as a clown during a
recent election.

Salary ¤360,000 (£322,000)

Staff 60 (22 advisers in the Cabinet, 28 support staff and 10 bodyguards)

Offices A new building that will cost £280 million is to be constructed in
Brussels to showcase the EU's growing global ambitions

Accommodation Annual allowance of ¤54,000

Entertaining Annual allowance of ¤17,000

'She can herd peers, so she'll have no trouble in this job'

High Representative Baroness Ashton of Upholland

Baroness Ashton of Upholland had never been elected to anything until last
night's nomination to become High Representative. But she has an extraordinary
gift for being in the right place at the right time.

The Trade Commissioner, 53, was selected by Gordon Brown to take over from Lord
Mandelson 13 months ago, partly because the Government did not want a
by-election by sending an MP.

She also ticked all the boxes when David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary,
withdrew from the contest to become the EU's high representative for Foreign and
Security Policy. Suddenly the search was on for a diplomat who was on the centre
Left and from a big country - and preferably a woman to meet the growing clamour
for female representation at the highest levels of the EU.

She has built a reputation in Brussels as a competent negotiator who achieves
results. "She may not stop the traffic but she is a good bridge builder and that
is her job," said one diplomat. "She has made an extraordinary impression in her
short time at the European Commission. The job is to build consensus among 27
leaders, and she is ideal for that."

Lady Ashton is married to Peter Kellner, one of Britain's leading pollsters and
founder of YouGov. She has two children and three stepchildren. She was elevated
to the peerage by Tony Blair in 1999 after leading Business in the Community, a
charitable organisation to fight inequality, and became a junior education
minister. After a spell as a junior minister in the Justice Department, Gordon
Brown promoted her to the Cabinet in June 2007 as Leader of the Lords.

She also pushed proposals to allow victims of forced marriages to seek
compensation under the Forced Marriages Bill in 2007.

Denis MacShane, the former Europe Minister, said: "She was Labour's best leader
in the House of Lords and anyone who can herd peers will have no trouble with EU
foreign ministers."

Salary ¤216,000 (£193,000)

Staff A new empire of 7,000 diplomats around the world as European Commission
offices are turned into 120 EU embassies

Offices Premises still to be agreed but will be located within a current EU
complex

Accommodation Annual allowance of ¤32,500

Entertaining Annual allowance of ¤11,000

Solving the puzzle

Right-wing President balanced by left-wing High Representative and politically
neutral Secretary-General

Gender balance struck with a male President and female High Representative

None of them has attracted controversy during their political careers

Top job goes to a small country, two other posts filled by European heavyweights

How they rank

President of the European Union £322,000 President of the United States £240,000
President of Ireland £220,000 Chancellor of Germany £215,000 President of France
£210,000 Prime Minister of Belgium £193,000 Prime Minister of Britain £187,000
President of Russia £60,000 Prime Minister of Slovakia £35,000 Prime Minister of
Albania £20,000

President Herman Van Rompuy (Belgium) High Representative Baroness Ashton of
Upholland (Britain) Secretary-General Pierre de Boissieu (France)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Good luck in the new job: Herman Van Rompuy, who becomes the first EU
President, and Baroness Ashton of Upholland, its newly appointed High
Representative, in Brussels yesterday
DIRK WAEM BELGIUM / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRUSSELS SPROUTS FURY

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 71  words


OUR coverage of British outrage at the notion of Herman Van Rompuy leading the
EU had his countrymen choking on their waffles yesterday.

Belgian newspapers were fascinated by our report, with Nieuwsblad repeating UKIP
MEP Gerald Batten's comment that their PM was a "nonentity" and noting that Tory
Timothy Kirkhope was "not big on Belgians". Meanwhile De Morgen told readers the
Daily Express had "brought out the heavy artillery".

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK'S NEW BELGIAN BOSS IS A CLOWN;
Says his own sister

BYLINE: By Macer Hall and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 431  words


THE Belgian politician poised to become president of Europe was last night
dismissed as a clown.

Herman Van Rompuy faced a massive surge of opposition as other leaders began the
task of rubber-stamping his elevation to the powerful new job of leading the
entire European Union.

But the 62-year-old poetry-writing prime minister of Belgium suffered fresh
embarrassment when it emerged that even his own sister had ridiculed him.

Christine Van Rompuy - a member of a rival political party - helped to produce a
poster showing her brother posing as a clown during a recent election.

The image showed Mr Van Rompuy sporting a red nose and a clown's hat.

Ms Van Rompuy, who admitted the picture had caused some tension between them,
added: "We have not spoken since."

Yet despite the ridicule, Mr Van Rompuy appeared certain to clinch the GBP
250,000-a-year job after it was confirmed that his main rival, former prime
minister Tony Blair, was out of the race.

An angry campaign against Mr Van Rompuy - a fanatical federalist who wants
sweeping tax raising powers - was gaining support yesterday.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The list of famous
Belgians will not be extended by his appointment. This is the man who will have
more power than David Cameron or Gordon Brown and we are not given a say.

"All this proves one thing - the British people must have a referendum on
whether we stay part of this union."

And Labour MP Ian Davidson, a rare Eurosceptic on the Government benches, said:
"I am appalled to hear that the apparent leading candidate has committed himself
to Europe-wide taxation and is in favour of evercloser union with Brussels.

"If we'd had a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty we would have been able to set
Europe in a new direction, but it would appear this opportunity has been lost."

Van Rompuy, a married father of three who was an economist and banker before
starting a career in politics, is more famous in his own country for writing
Japanese-style poems than any for political achievements.

He has frequently advocated turning Europe into a super-state, wants to abolish
national symbols like flags and anthems, and is in favour of punitive
tax-raising powers for the EU.

Even Belgians were yesterday applauding the Daily Express's outspoken opposition
to the bureaucrat's rise.

Mick Willems contacted the newspaper to say: "Mr Van Rompuy is a nobody who
hasn't done anything since as prime minister - not that anyone knows of, at
least.

"The Belgian people want to get rid of him, but we fear an even bigger idiot is
going to take the seat of premier."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Poster says: 'Stop circus'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why Van is not the man! Readers vent their anger

BYLINE: Natalie Chalk

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 515  words


DAILY Express readers flooded our switchboard with calls yesterday and bombarded
our website with messages declaring their anger that Belgian Eurofanatic Herman
Van Rompuy is about to become President of Europe. Blame fell on Gordon Brown
for failing to save Britain from a European superstate and as Natalie Chalk
reports, the clear message was: "Pull Britain out of Europe immediately".

JOHN Mills, 73, from Cardiff said: "It comes as a betrayal of the men who died
for this country and if they could come back they would call our leaders
traitors."

Allen Ward, 57, from Lancashire, said: "They are already slagging us off and our
Government is not standing up to defend us.

We are supposed to be unified - we are not supposed to be throwing insults at
each other."

Mary Cock, 88, from Ripon, North Yorks, said: "The Belgians should remember who
freed their country from the Germans. We, in this tiny island, we were the only
ones who stood up to the force of the German airforce."

Sharon Clark, 47, from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, said: "We do not want an
unelected EU president.

We already have an unelected Prime Minister and everybody I speak to is in
uproar. And why do we want to be ruled by somebody who thinks we are ignorant
pigs?"

Ron Tuff, 75, from Crawley, West Sussex, said: "We fought two world wars for
freedom. We were once a proud country but they have driven us down.

Europe is bleeding us dry.

Look at the BNP - people don't want them but they vote for them because they
want to frighten the Government."

Shelia Lloyd, 49, from the Wirral, Merseyside, said: "I want to raise our flag
and sing our anthem and remain British. I work and pay my taxes and I'm angry we
won't get a vote. We don't count anymore.

Britain should be British."

Joseph Oakley, 76, from Tyne and Wear, said: "I think Mr Brown should be taken
to account by the public of this country because he has made a mess of it. He
promised a referendum and he brought us to our knees and we need to get him out.
If he goes on any longer, the BNP will come to power and we don't want that.

Other countries are laughing at us, especially France and Germany."

Michael Goulding, 49, from Barnsley, West Yorks, said:

"We fought two world wars.

Was that in vain? Was that a waste of life?"

Reginald Bailey, 82, from Gravesend, Kent, said: "To think this country with its
historical background will be controlled by this guy with all these rules and
regulations. I vote Conservative but I'm thinking about voting UKIP. I can't see
Cameron with all his high words giving us a referendum. We're heading for a
disastrous situation."

Richard Scully, 68, from Harwich, Essex, said: "The UK should leave Europe as
soon as possible and return to the self-governing nation state that we fought
hard for over many years and which many people died for. We can survive outside
the union. We are the fourth military power. We are on the UN Security Council.

We have always been a world player. We should leave immediately and remain
trading friends with Europe. There's never been a greater time for people to
wake up and do something about it."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Betrayal, says John Mills Sheila Lloyd told of anger

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 624 words


pandora@independent.co.uk

Ukip pick a meaty fight with Sir Paul

Not for the first time, Ukip are to risk unpopularity by aiming their fire at a
much-loved British institution.

This time, the eurosceptic party - memorably described by David Cameron as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly" - have chosen to pick a fight
with Sir Paul McCartney, over the former Beatle's campaign to encourage meat
eaters to go without flesh one day a week in a bid to cut the greenhouse gases
emitted by cattle.

The Liverpudlian MEP Paul Nuttall has fired the starting gun, accusing McCartney
of using the idea to turn people vegetarian. "He is just propagandising," Nuttal
argues in a heated release issued by his office.

"Maybe it is healthier but that should be their choice and not because a pop
star thinks farting cows and pigs herald the end of mankind."

McCartney's office appears unfazed by the attack from the party, declining to
offer a response. Ukip, meanwhile, insist that they aren't concerned as to the
potential for backlash that comes with picking a fight with a national treasure.

"Well, they're both from Liverpool so perhaps he [Nuttall] will lose one or two
supporters over this. But if you think something's wrong you have to say,"
argues a spokesman.

"At the end of the day McCartney's just trying to hitch his vegetarianism to the
green bandwagon."

Archie is uncommonly uncommon touch

ITV have named ex-Conservative MP Archie Norman as their new chairman. He will
succeed Michael Grade at the start of the new year. But how will Norman, once
chief executive of Asda, get along with his new underlings?

Past omens are not good. The former Tory party chairman Lord Parkinson has
claimed to have been underwhelmed by Norman's performance as Shadow Environment
Secretary. "Just because Asda checkout girls smile at him, Archie thinks he's
got the common touch," he has observed in the past. Ker-ching!

Uh-oh! Bad sex for Roth and Co

It's that time of year again: the time when novelists cower under the bedclothes
for fear of public disgrace. Yes, readers, that's right: it is time for the Bad
Sex Awards. This year's nominees, announced yesterday, include that perennial
dirty old man Philip Roth, pictured, alongside John Banville and Nick Cave.

Whether or not the lucky scribes will be making an appearance at the ceremony
remains to be seen. Alastair Campbell was conspicuously absent from last year's
proceedings despite being a nominee. Happily, the gong went to Rachel "Sister of
Boris" Johnson. "I am the only one ballsy enough to be here!" she exclaimed at
the time. "I'm giving a spanking to what's left of New Labour." Cheeky!

Brian launches a 3D rocket at C4

Brian May, Queen's astrophysically minded (not to say haired) guitarist, has
recently reinvented himself as a leading proponent of 3D photography, publishing
a book, A Village Lost and Found, of stereoscopic 3D images. Still, he is less
than impressed by Channel 4's attempt to join the fun with their 3D week.

"Sadly, as we expected, it sucked!" he complains. "Do not judge [it] by this
experience. Go home with your copy of A Village Lost and Found and we promise a
wonderful experience." Nothing like a quick plug, is there?

Being skinny beats tasty food for Moss

Kate Moss has done that rare thing: given an interview. The frequently mute
supermodel has spoken to Women's Wear Daily, offering her insights into life's
more profound lessons. "Nothing tastes as good as skinny feels, that's one of
them," the waif, left, opines. Quite what those anti-size-zero campaigners will
make of this remains to be seen - though it would appear to be confirmation, at
least, that Moss's heavily rumoured cookbook is unlikely to appear anytime soon.
Nigella can breathe a sigh of relief.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

We have had enough of the most pointless Parliament for 350 years;
Today's State Opening is a waste of our poor Queen's time, writes Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1172  words


Should you see on television this morning our beloved Queen opening Parliament,
ponder for a moment all the much more constructive and enjoyable things that a
dear old lady in her 84th year could be doing instead. There is no purpose to
her speech. Indeed, there is no point in the continuation of the present
Parliament, which I think we can agree is the most despised since Cromwell threw
out the Rump in 1653. Almost all those assembled at Westminster today will know
that. Few, though, have any reason to admit it. The likelihood of much serious
legislation reaching the statute book by the time Parliament goes away for its
Easter holidays, and an election campaign, in late March is minimal. It is the
tradition of a Queen's Speech at this stage in the proceedings to be an outline
of the manifesto and the programme for the next term. Hopes of Labour being back
in power after next May must, however, be slim, so even that value is lost. Yet
the two main parties have their own reasons not to have the contest just yet,
despite the fraud on the public that this coming few months will represent.

Nick Clegg, the ex-lothario who now leads the Liberal Democrats, has gone so far
as to say that Her Majesty's speech should be scrapped and, pending a general
election, Parliament should proceed to reform itself. I am against this for the
very good reason that if someone burgles your house they will not be your first
choice to advise you on security measures, and you would not expect the courts
to ask them to pass sentence on themselves. This Parliament cannot possibly
reform itself. Too many of its members are not going to be there, for one reason
or another, in a few months. Such is the bitterness of many of them over having
had their collars felt in the expenses scandal that they can hardly be relied
upon to come up with a set of arrangements that suits the country better than it
would suit them. If Parliament is to be reformed, the size and import of the
task are such that it should not happen until after an election. The people need
the opportunity to decide who exactly is going to do the reforming: this lot
cannot be trusted.

If you feel that is an exaggeration, look what they did when last entrusted with
what was potentially a great reforming measure - the chance to elect a new
Speaker to replace the compromised and incapable man we must learn to call Lord
Martin. They ended up choosing the legislature's equivalent of Donald Duck, not
because they believed he might step out of his cartoon one day and restore order
to a profoundly damaged but vital institution, but because it would upset the
Tory party. That is how serious the present parliamentary majority is about
restoring the credibility of the Commons. And as we read endless stories about
the new Speaker's lavish refurbishments of his apartments, the size of his
television, his wife's political stunts and his decision not to dress properly
for the State Opening, the full force of what a pointless little creep he is,
and how he squats vacuously in one of the great positions of state, is brought
home to us.

It is also optimistic of Mr Clegg to think that, in the four or five months that
remain before an election is called, anything that might constitute the
carefully considered reform of Parliament could be more than merely embarked
upon. I dwell on this subject not because I believe Mr Clegg to be a serious
political figure, but because the next accident that happens in our political
process could be that he ends up having some measure of power under a minority
government. Mr Brown knows this is likely, and that is why (as I wrote at the
time) he promised an otherwise off-the-wall referendum on the alternative vote
system of proportional representation. The Conservatives, faced with this
possibility, are playing an interesting game. Their public pronouncements are to
the effect that it is an uphill struggle, they are not complacent, the battle is
not yet won. Yet I keep meeting Tory MPs who say that they are going to get a
majority of 50 or 60 (though one did have the good manners the other day to tell
me that, following the debacle of Mr Cameron's European policy, it may be 20
fewer thanks to votes that will go to Ukip in various marginal seats). The
party's public pronouncements are (and this is a rarity) likely to be far more
accurate than its private ones. The party is not agitating for an immediate
election precisely because it is genuinely unsure that it can win it outright.

Much damage can be done in the next few months; not so much in Parliament
(though that is possible, especially if there are any frivolous attempts to make
little constitutional reforms that may end up having big consequences) as in the
business of government, which we can expect to continue with its present level
of incompetence and distraction. Too many Labour ministers are concentrating on
their likely personal defeats, or on the defeat of their party, their need to
survive in opposition and what camp to jump into in the leadership campaign that
is likely to follow the election.

It is surprising, given those conditions, that the opposition is not livelier
and noisier. It is handicapped, however, by an absence of firm policy to be
lively and noisy about. Even this late in the day, it remains much easier for
the Tories to be negative about what Labour does or proposes than to be positive
about their own programme. The party is still resistant to hard political
principles but flexible in the face of polling and focus group findings. It is
hard for shadow spokesmen to try to develop policy when one of the teenagers in
Central Office could get on the phone at any time and ask them to move sharply
in the opposite direction.

Mr Brown probably has given his party the best chance of a non-apocalyptic
result by holding on for as long as he can. The public has now so lost interest
in politics (look at the 33 per cent turn-out in last week's by-election if you
seek proof) that having a few more months of this Parliament may distress
commentators and the highly politically motivated, but it probably won't matter
at all to the electorate.

If I were an MP in any of the parties who was likely to be around after early
May, I would start thinking now very hard about two things in particular: how do
we revive Britain, and how do we start to rebuild the credibility of Parliament
itself? There is no other plausible use for the next few months. Maybe there
should be some debates on the adjournment on these two subjects between now and
March, not with a view to passing laws (if, indeed, any laws could solve either
problem) but to discussing the options for action that cannot, in either case,
be delayed much beyond the next State Opening. Today's will be a pitiful
occasion entirely in keeping with what this Government, and this Parliament,
have made of themselves. Not even the harshest of republicans could agree that
our poor, dear Queen deserves to have to do this, and have to indulge this
shambles any longer

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN RULED BY A BELGIAN?;
You must be joking

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 1029  words


A FURIOUS backlash was growing last night against the drive to anoint Euro
fanatic Herman Van Rompuy as President of Europe.

The Belgian Prime Minister, who wants to impose sweeping Europe-wide taxes, is
expected to be picked for the plum new job at a cosy dinner of the Brussels
elite tomorrow.

But opponents of his crazed plans for building a European superstate and banning
national flags and anthems were uniting yesterday after full details emerged of
his ambitions for a massive new taxation offensive once he is installed in the
GBP 250,000-a-year post.

Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for London, said grily: "What is the point of Belgium?
The only reason it would get the presidency is because by giving it to such a
non-entity it is not going to upset anyone.

"They are adding insult to injury. It's bad enough having the Lisbon Treaty
rammed down our throats but a president from a nothing country telling us we
shouldn't exist?

They are jackals biting the lion's tail."

Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the Conservatives in the European Parliament, said:
"Most Belgian politicians seem to love high taxes even more than chocolate, beer
and frites so it is no surprise Mr Van Rompuy wants new EU-wide taxes set by
Brussels.

"If the EU were allowed to raise its own taxes it would be the master of the
national governments, rather than servant. I want the EU to go cap in hand to
national governments every few years for its money so individual member states
can better control the process of funding."

Anger was also brewing against Gordon Brown for failing to block the candidacy
of Mr Van Rompuy. Critics are outraged the Prime Minister has been backing the
candidacy of Tony Blair rather than ruthlessly defending Britain's independence.

And they say his betrayal of the pledge to give voters a referendum on EU reform
has led to the appointment of an unelected EU president.

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "Do Gordon Brown and the Labour Government have such
little regard for our great country that they think we are only worthy of being
governed by a Belgian autocrat? Had anyone at the time of Churchill or Thatcher
advanced that theory, people would have laughed in their faces." Eurosceptic
think tank Open Europe described Mr Van Rompuy as a "classic EU federalist" who
would "quietly drive EU integration forward".

Director Lorraine Mullaly said: "The British Government should be dead against
any such candidate. The EU president may not have the power to propose direct EU
taxes, but that doesn't matter, because the European Commission will do it for
him.

"With him in the EU hot seat, the Commission will have a powerful friend in the
council, a body that until now had only elected representatives of governments.
All that changes with the Lisbon Treaty."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Mr Rompuy's comments just show
the direction the Brussels elite wish to take things: one flag, one anthem, one
tax rate, one army, one nation - Europe." The details of a private speech by Mr
Van Rompuy, 62, to leading politicians and business leaders emerged yesterday.

Mr Van Rompuy spoke to a Brussels gathering of the so-called Bilderberg group,
an infrequent and private assembly of influential international political and
business figures set up more than 50 years ago by former US diplomat Henry
Kissinger.

He told them: "The possibility of financial levies at European level needs to be
seriously reviewed and for the first time ever, the big countries in the Union
are open to this."

But Downing Street officials were yesterday trying to calm fears about an
onslaught of taxation from the EU.

One said: "It is not in the gift of the president of the European Council to
make such proposals."

Mr Van Rompuy is also known to be enthusiastic about creating a "European
identity". He spearheaded the drawing up of a federalist manifesto for his
Flemish Christian Democrat Party in Belgium calling for a widening of EU power
and influence.

It said: "Apart from the euro, other national symbols need to be replaced by
European ones (licence plates, identity cards, more EU flags)."

Yet some Brussels insiders believe there is still a chance Mr Van Rompuy's rise
can be blocked. One said yesterday: "There is no firm agreement yet on one name.
There is a lot of work to be done in the next 24 hours."

A palatial new office block for the new EU President and his deputy, the Higher
Representative for Foreign Affairs, is being built in Brussels at a cost of more
than GBP 280million.

The President is expected to get a huge entourage and fleet of chauffeured
vehicles. He will also be entitled to lavish expenses and qualify for a pension
for life equivalent to around 70 per cent of his huge salary.

Why the Belgians hate us British

1 You think the world revolves around you.

2 English might well be the universal language of business, but you refuse to
attempt to speak ours if you get lost in Brussels, Liege or Charleroi.

3 You do everything differently, such as driving on the left.

4 Your food is the worst in the world.

5 You drink warm beer which even the least gifted of our brewers would despair
of.

6 You are real drunks

7 Your weather is even worse than ours.

8 Your tabloid newspapers think only of bums and scandals and lack respect and
dignity.

9 You unfairly eliminated the Red Devils - the Belgian national football team -
in the 1990 World Cup. . .We still haven't forgotten the goal, in the last
second, by David Platt.

10 We haven't forgotten your hooligans, who were responsible for the death of 39
people, at the Heysel stadium, in 1985. What supreme shame and pain for real
football fans

IT'S THE ultimate insult.

Ten reasons to loathe the British - by the Belgians.

A Belgian newspaper has outlined the character traits our beloved continental
counterparts allegedly find most irritating.

They include the claim that we British think the world revolves around us, the
fact that we drive on the left, a claim that we are "drunks", that our food is
horrible and our weather terrible.

The paper even states: "We haven't forgotten your hooligans, who were
responsible for the death of 39 people at the Heysel stadium, in 1985. What
supreme shame and pain for real football fans!"

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fanatic Van Rompuy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Don't crown Cameron just yet. There's one way Labour could
still trip him up: Brown's political obituary is written. A Tory PM waits in the
wings. But - don't laugh - some see cracks in that crystal ball

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1234 words


Don't laugh, but it's possible that the Tories won't win the next general
election. Sounds silly, I know, given that the polls, the press, why, the very
scent in the air, insists that David Cameron is - in the words of yesterday's
Guardian front page - the "PM in waiting". Wherever he travels now, Cameron
leaves audiences concluding that he looks the part: he has the manner, the
confidence, that glow of imminent power. Even Labour ministers have succumbed to
this sense of inevitability. Refer in private conversation to the Tories as the
"next government", and they don't even blink in protest.

But they might all be wrong. It's still possible that even if Labour doesn't win
in 2010, the Tories could lose, denied an outright victory: those
expenses-fiddling MPs might escape a hanging from the voters, but still
parliament could be hung. I'm not saying it's likely, nor even probable. If
you've got £10 to hand over to a bookmaker, find something else to bet on. But
it is definitely possible.

Start with yesterday's Guardian poll. The headline figures showed Cameron
outstripping Gordon Brown on every measure of alpha male leadership: tougher and
more decisive. But underneath was the news that the gap between Labour and
Conservative is shrinking. Some pollsters have it at 10 points, which they
declare "the bare minimum for a functional majority". If that lead melts into
single digits, as it could under the hot lights of an election, then the Tories
will be in peril.

But that's just the beginning. Those at Brown's side promise that the coming
contest will not be a national but a regional election, won in marginal seats
that exist in roughly equal numbers in the south, north and Midlands. They've
written off their chances in the southern marginals, but swear they're ahead in
the key northern seats and competitive in the Midlands: aided, they say, by the
fact that the Tories' appeal shrinks the further they get away from London.

Denis MacShane, the Rotherham MP, testifies that Cameron strikes even those of
his constituents who now loathe Labour as irredeemably southern and
metropolitan; their response to George Osborne is even more hostile. In a recent
council byelection in Barnsley, the Conservatives came fifth behind Labour, the
BNP, local independents and Ukip. Labour's high command contrasts this with the
enthusiasm for Tony Blair - and poll numbers north of 50% - in 1997, and says
the Tories are nowhere near where they need to be. Pollsters don't wholly
disagree, noting the "softness" in Tory support, measured by those who say they
might yet change their minds, and the scale of the mountain the Conservatives
have to climb - needing to increase their number of MPs by the order of 70%.

Look to the women, the Labour optimists say next. Among female voters the
Conservative poll lead is smaller. That's why the heart of today's Queen's
speech will be a new promise on social care for the elderly, aimed specifically
at the 45- to 65-year-old women who are, say Labour strategists, "in the crunch"
on care, either worried for themselves or their parents. The contrast will be
clear, they hope, with Osborne's austerity message, which may have won plaudits
from the well-cushioned commentariat but, they insist, repels regular voters. In
this view, all that Labour canvassers have to say on the doorstep is that the
Tories will have you working harder for longer: not a great vote-winner.

What else do they have up their sleeves? Downing Street has been studying hard
the come-from-behind Conservative victory of 1992, helped by the presence of one
of the lead operatives of that offensive around the current cabinet table: Shaun
Woodward. That year the Tories hit their opponents by warning of Labour's "tax
bombshell". In 2010 Labour is mulling a return of the compliment, warning that
the Tories will drop their own bombshell - on tax credits, many of which help
people on middle incomes. Another 1992 echo: Labour hopes to remind those in
work and with a mortgage that they are, despite the recession, better off,
thanks in part to ultra-low interest rates.

They plan, too, to reprise one of Brown's favourite tunes, running 2010 as a
"many, not the few" election. That the Tories have not dropped their proposed
cut in inheritance tax - which will give a £200,000 tax break to the 3,000
wealthiest estates - while promising to repeal the ban on foxhunting only hands
Labour a bigger target. "Government will now be of the rich, by the rich, for
the rich," says MacShane.

There's another potential Tory weakness. When the National Front was on the
march in the late 1970s, Margaret Thatcher moved swiftly, luring rightwing
voters back to the Tory camp by talking their language, warning that immigrants
threatened to "swamp" Britain. But that option is not open to the kinder,
gentler David Cameron, not without fatally undermining his brand. So a boost for
Ukip and the BNP could split the right vote and see at least a few seats
slipping from the Tories' grasp.

And, despite those stellar numbers in the ICM poll, Cameron is not without
vulnerabilities. I'm told that one political communications professional -
sympathetic to the Tory leader - asks his corporate clients what kind of
strategy they wish to pursue: a Blair or a Cameron? The former is for those who
want to tackle a difficult subject, the latter is for those who want to change
the subject.

The focus-group-meisters say the first story that voters tell when asked to talk
about Cameron is still the one about him cycling to work - followed by a car
carrying his bag. Or it's the Tory spinners briefing that Samantha Cameron was
wearing a humble M&S off-the-peg dress - only for it to be revealed that the
dress was in fact tailored especially for her on the orders of the store's chief
executive. Labour can still try to brand Cameron as a fake.

Put it all together, close your eyes, cross your fingers and, say Labour's most
optimistic hearts, it could all come right on the night. The problem, says the
former deputy leadership candidate Jon Cruddas, is that "this perfect
combination of forces all have to come into line in time for election day". In
other words, even if some of the strategists' hopes are realised, it's a stretch
to believe they all will be.

What's more, plenty of those arguments wobble under scrutiny. Take the 1992
precedent. As an issue, tax credits lack the punch of income tax. And, even if
Gordon Brown does analogise quite well to John Major, is David Cameron really
Neil Kinnock, widely derided as "unelectable"? No. Labour is clinging to the
belief that the race will tighten in the heat of an election campaign. But
that's far from certain. Isn't it just as possible that Brown might look tired
and clumsy, thereby reinforcing the Tories' time-for-a-change message?

Even if they buy the optimistic scenario, plenty of Labour MPs are not quite
sure what to do with it. For some it only makes them more frustrated, proof that
the coming election really would be winnable if only they had one last element
in place: a leader who had not, apparently, been written off by the electorate.
Others take heart, believing that somehow they can stave off defeat without
taking that fateful step. But they all know that it would take a miraculous
dollop of luck for everything to go the way the Brown team say it might. And,
right now, not many are feeling lucky.

freedland@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'm dreaming of a German Christmas

BYLINE: Richard Morrison

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1217 words


Birmingham last Saturday was a tale of two cities. Much reported in Monday's
papers was the trouble at Millennium Point, where youngsters surged forward at a
free council-run concert featuring the X Factor runners-up JLS. Temporary
barriers proved inadequate and four people ended up in hospital. But by all
accounts it could have been far worse. So chaotic were the scenes that some
eye-witnesses spoke of fearing a "second Hillsborough".

Well, all that needs investigating.

Birmingham City Council apparently expected 15,000 or 20,000 to turn up, and got
30,000. Such a miscalculation is rare these days. From Glastonbury to the O2,
big pop events are usually meticulously planned and patrolled. Too controlled,
say nostalgists who hanker after the anarchy of the Sixties. Better, however,
that kids are cossetted than crushed. Millennium Point seems to have been a
lucky escape. Lessons must be learnt.

But that wasn't the only big outdoor happening in Birmingham on Saturday. When I
arrived in the city, at around 5pm, the mayhem at Millennium Point was already
subsiding. Instead I was swept up, along with thousands of others, in another
vast event - something so festive and heartwarming that I found myself beaming
like a toddler taken to Santa's grotto for the first time.

Yes, the German Market is back. Of all the fads and fashions to have swept this
nation in the past decade, the most startling has surely been the annual
takeover of our city centres by jolly chaps in lederhosen and lasses with
cleavages like the Grand Canyon, intent on wooing us with hot sugary wine,
teeth-rotting marzipan and sausages the size of Rhine pleasure steamers. Who
would have predicted that 21st-century Britain had such a taste for bratwurst
and glühwein? Well, the Germans did. And they have exploited this unexpected
yearning in the British soul with reassuring Teutonic efficiency. It's a wonder
that there are any frankfurters still left in Frankfurt, so overwhelming has
been the infiltration of spicy sizzlers into Glasgow, Nottingham, Leeds,
Manchester, London and dozens of other towns and cities. And this gastronomic
bombardment expands every year. Even Solihull - indomitable heartland of the
English way of life - has succumbed to the allure of the pretzels and the
gingerbreads this November.

But Birmingham's German Market, now in its ninth year, is Britain's biggest and
most celebrated. Indeed, it's the biggest anywhere outside Germany, and likely
this year (according to those paid to know such esoteric facts) to become the
third biggest in the world. I can believe it. From now until Christmas, nearly
100 lantern-lit, conifer-strewn cabins will be open for business, running from
Victoria Square all the way down New Street.

And what business! Last year some 2.8 million people flocked to this one market,
boosting Birmingham's economy by a handy £67 million. This year three million
punters are expected. To judge by the crowd round the booze stalls on Saturday,
they may have reached that figure with six weeks to spare. Just to put this
statistic in the context of other German cultural achievements, it's roughly the
same number of people as have seen a staging of Wagner's Ring in the past 130
years. No wonder that the German Ambassador - the aptly named Georg Boomgaarden
- was in Birmingham at the weekend.

Several thoughts strike me about this remarkable phenomenon. The first is the
most obvious: that the great British public is clearly a lot less sour about
mainland Europe than the UK Independence Party and the Eurosceptics in the Tory
party wishes it was. Here we are in a prolonged recession, with unemployment
worse in the West Midlands than anywhere else in the country. A recipe, you
might have thought, for a surge of Little Englander hostility - especially
towards foreigners plying their trade in the very centres of our cities. Yet
people in Birmingham can't get enough of what these enterprising Germans are
flogging. What's more, the natives seem to love the panache with which the
immigrants cheer up their city during the darkest weeks of the year.

That was proved a few years ago, when a coalition of Tories and LibDems won
control of Birmingham City Council and announced (in what they clearly thought
would be a populist move) that in future Birmingham's Christmas market would be
"Dickens themed" and as British as warm beer. The Birmingham Post had to run a
extra page of letters to cope with all the protests. Shamed and embarrassed, the
politicians did a swift U-turn.

Yet it's significant that although the Germans provide the stalls, the booze,
the grub and the serving staff, this wacky enterprise depends on something
rather endearingly and eccentrically British - namely, our daft determination to
dine alfresco, and standing up, in the very weeks when our climate is at its
wettest and windiest. On Saturday a gale was howling and black clouds scudding
across Black Country skies. Yet people positively basked in the delight of
eating, drinking and merrymaking out of doors in such bracing conditions. The
chillier the night got, the more the glühwein flowed.

Which points to something rather intriguing. Despite 50,000 years of
"civilisation", and all the sophisticated gizmos with which modern humanity
surrounds itself, our instincts in many respects are still pretty primitive. And
one of the most primitive of those instincts is an abhorrence of darkness -
especially the long, debilitating murk that shrouds Northern Europe in November
and won't shift until March. We have invented a fancy medical term - seasonal
affective disorder - to describe extreme examples of this abhorrence. But
there's a little bit of SAD in everyone. The consequence is that, just like our
Neanderthal ancestors, we crave a feast - a celebration of light and mirth - to
dispel, albeit temporarily, the gloom of these winter months.

For two millennia Christmas filled that role. But these days Christmas is rather
a tarnished brand. That's not just because fewer and fewer people in Britain
share the Christian faith. Christmas is also associated with grotesque excesses
of consumerism, with bickering families forced together, and - for millions who
don't have even a bickering family for company - with intense loneliness.

We want something more like the Twelfth Night celebrations of Tudor times, or
the frost fairs held on the frozen Thames until the 18th century: festivities
devoted purely to shaking off the winter blues. How smart of the Germans to
realise that, and to deliver the perfect midwinter tonic, ready-packaged,
straight to the hearts of our cities. In the process, of course, they are slowly
reinventing the "traditional" British Christmas. But we shouldn't begrudge them
that, since their 19th-century ancestors more or less invented it for us in the
first place.

I fret, though, about the one-way aspect of this trade. What quintessential
British pastime can we give to Germans in return for their mugs of steaming
glühwein and those weird plastic "rock" lamps that glow like radioactive urine?
Well, how about teaching them to play cricket? At least we would get an opponent
we could beat - for the first day or two, anyway, while they were still learning
the rules.

Who would '' have predicted that Britain had such a taste for bratwurst and
glühwein?

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 17, 2009 Tuesday

Front: The right stuff? New poll shows voters see him as PM in waiting

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words


David Cameron is closing the deal with voters over his suitability to serve as
Britain's next prime minister, according to a new ICM poll which shows more
people think he has the strength of character to serve in Downing Street.

The Tory leader is now regarded as tougher, more decisive and more
internationally respected than Gordon Brown, who has reaped little benefit from
his stewardship of the response to the banking crisis.

Labour can draw some comfort from a narrowing of the gap between the two parties
at national level - the Conservatives are on 42% to Labour's 29% - but that
would still be enough to give the Tories a clear majority at the next election.

Equally worrying for ministers, Cameron appears to be cementing his reputation
with voters on key issues of character - suggesting that voting Tory isn't just
about being fed up with Labour, but is now being seen as a positive move.

Labour is 13 points behind the Tories, but there has been a closing of the gap
between the two main parties since last month's Guardian/ICM poll. Labour is up
two to 29%, its highest level since April (and up four points since the more
recent ICM poll). The party may have been boosted by news of Labour's strong
showing in last week's Glasgow North East byelection and widespread dislike of
the way the Sun dealt with Brown's expressions of sympathy to the mother of a
British soldier killed in action.

The latest findings come ahead of tomorrow's Queen's speech, which will be
Brown's last chance to set out an agenda for change in areas ranging from cancer
treatment and social care to boosting broadband access and requiring greater
parental responsibility for antisocial children. Today's scores are the same as
Labour's lead in the November 1996 Guardian/ICM poll, before the May 1997
election, which Tony Blair went on to win by just under 13 points. Support for
both parties is lower than it was in 1996 and 1997, partly because Liberal
Democrat support is now higher. The third party is up one at 19% in today's
poll.

One estimate suggests the 13-point Tory lead would be enough for a majority of
about 70 seats, even though the gap between the two main parties is closer than
at any point since June.

There is no sign of a surge for minor parties, despite recent alarm over the
BNP. In total, other parties are on 10%, down one, with Scottish and Welsh
nationalist parties on 4%, and the Greens, Ukip and the BNP on 2% each.

Downing Street argues that Cameron's inexperience will count against him as the
election gets closer, but there is little sign so far of that happening. Most
voters say they would be disappointed or even angry if they woke up the day
after the election to find the prime minister had been returned for a fourth
term in power.

Cameron has a big advantage on a series of character questions. He leads Brown
by 16 points, 48% to 32%, as someone who has what it takes to be a good prime
minister. He leads by 33 points as someone who has changed his party for the
better, and by 11 points as someone who is decisive.

Tellingly, voters are less afraid overall of a Conservative win than a Labour
one. Asked to pick from a range of emotions they might feel when they wake up to
hear the election result next year, 53% would be angry or disappointed at news
of a Labour win. Only 36% would feel the same about a Tory victory. By contrast,
42% would be pleased or excited if Cameron won, against 27% for Brown.

The question - which focuses on attitudes to the two people most likely to be
prime minister - suggests that Tory strength is more than a consequence of
Labour unpopularity.

The most prevalent response to a Cameron win is "pleased", at 35%, followed by
31% who would be disappointed - but just 5% would be angry. Even among Labour
voters, only 13% would be angry if Cameron won.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,010 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 13-15 November 2009. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

Although the gap between the main parties has narrowed, the Tories' 13-point
lead would still result in a 70-seat majority

14>=

David Cameron's lead in the polls mirrors that of Tony Blair ahead of the 1997
election Photograph: David Moir/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 16, 2009 Monday

Cameron closing deal despite Labour boost - Guardian/ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 708 words

ABSTRACT

Tory leader regarded as tougher, more decisive and more internationally
respected than Gordon Brown

FULL TEXT

David Cameron is closing the deal with voters over his suitability to serve as
Britain's next prime minister, according to a new ICM poll which shows more
people think he has the strength of character to serve in Downing Street.

The Tory leader is now regarded as tougher, more decisive and more
internationally respected than Gordon Brown, who has reaped little benefit from
his stewardship of the response to the banking crisis.

Labour can draw some comfort from a narrowing of the gap between the two parties
at the national level - the Conservatives are on 41% to Labour's 29%, but that
would still be enough to give the Tories a clear majority at the next election.
Equally worrying for ministers is that Cameron appears to be cementing his
reputation with voters on key issues of character - suggesting that voting Tory
isn't just about being fed up with Labour, but is now being seen as a positive
move.

Labour is 13 points behind the Tories, but there has been a closing of the gap
between the two main parties since last month's Guardian/ICM poll. Labour is up
two to 29%, its highest level since April (and up 4 points since the more recent
ICM poll).

The party may have been boosted by news of Labour's strong showing in last
week's Glasgow North East byelection and widespread dislike of the way the Sun
dealt with Brown's expressions of sympathy to the mother of a British soldier
killed in action.

The latest findings come ahead of Wednesday's Queen's speech, which will be
Brown's last chance to set out an agenda for change in areas ranging from cancer
treatment and social care to boosting broadband access and requiring greater
parental responsibility for antisocial children.

Today's scores are the same as Labour's lead in the November 1996 Guardian/ICM,
before the May 1997 election, which Tony Blair went on to win by just under 13
points. Support for both parties is lower than it was in 1996 and 1997, partly
because Liberal Democrat support is now higher. The third party is up one at 19%
in yesterday's poll.

One estimate suggests the 13-point Tory lead would be enough for a majority of
around 70 seats, even though the gap between the two main parties is closer than
at any point since June.

There is no sign of a surge for minor parties, despite recent alarm over the
BNP. In total, other parties are on 10%, down one, with Scottish and Welsh
nationalist parties on 4%, and the Greens, Ukip and the BNP on 2% each.

Downing Street argues that Cameron's inexperience will count against him as the
election gets closer, but there is little sign so far of that happening.

Most voters say they would be disappointed or even angry if they woke up the day
after the election to find the prime minister had been returned for a fourth
term in power.

Cameron has a big advantage on a series of character questions. He leads Brown
by 16 points, 48% to 32%, as someone who has what it takes to be a good prime
minister. He leads by 33 points as someone who has changed his party for the
better, and by 11 points as someone who is decisive.

Tellingly, voters are less afraid overall of a Conservative win than a Labour
one. Asked to pick from a range of emotions they might feel when they wake up to
hear the election result next year, 53% would be angry or disappointed at news
of a Labour win. Only 36% would feel the same about a Tory victory.

By contrast, 42% would be pleased or excited if Cameron won, against 27% for
Brown.

The question - which intentionally focuses on attitudes to the two men most
likely to be prime minister - suggests that Tory strength in the polls is more
than a consequence of Labour unpopularity. The most prevalent response to a
Cameron win is "pleased", at 35%, followed by 31% who would be disappointed -
but few would be angry, just 5%. Even among Labour voters, only 13% would be
angry at to hear Cameron had won.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,010 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 13-15 November 2009. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            November 15, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DEVA STATED;
Anguish of the patriot postmaster

BYLINE: by DOMINIK LEMANSKI

SECTION: NEWS; 29

LENGTH: 415 words


A POSTMASTER fired for refusing to serve customers who couldn't speak English
has lifted the lid on his "year from hell".

Deva Kumarasiri was sacked by the Post Office in March, despite being swamped
with fan mail from Brits who backed his stand.

But that was only the start of months of misery for the Sri Lankan-born
father-of-two.

Deva, 40, who came to Britain 18 years ago, was so encouraged by the support he
received he decided to stand as a Euro candidate for the UK Independence Party
in June.

But he failed to win election after polling just 974 votes.

Then he found himself snubbed by employers. And even attempts to set up his own
business came to grief.

Now he is jobless with a family to support - and has vowed to give up
campaigning. He confessed: "I love this country and I love helping people.

But at the end of the day it's hard.

"I have decided not to stand up any more. I have to think of No.1 because I'm
suffering now."

Deva received national attention when he banned immigrants who wouldn't learn
English from his post office in Sneinton, Nottinghamshire.

He vowed: "If you come to Britain you have got to speak English."

Our sister paper the Daily Star even presented him with its first-ever "Great
Brit" award for his stance. But Muslims launched a petition to drive him out and
the local Liberal Democrat councillor was moved to another post office in nearby
Netherfield.

He was sacked four days later after refusing to drop his ban - and was then
ditched by the Lib-Dems.

A call from UKIP leader Nigel Farage led to him standing in the Euro elections.
He said: "I only had three weeks to campaign for UKIP but I managed to get 974
votes. That was very good in the circumstances but I was left without a proper
job.

"What disappointed me the most was that there was only a 30% turnout. If the 70%
majority had stood up we could have got rid of the gutless MPs we have at the
moment."

He added: "I ran my own gardening business but it became tough when the weather
got cold. Then I set up my own catering business called Dilshi Catering. But
someone nicked my catering trailer before I had the chance to insure it. Now I'm
in limbo."

And despite flying the Union Jack in his garden and from his car, he had his
wall daubed with graffiti by supporters of the British National Party.

Now Deva - whose wife Durga, 39, is a nurse and who has two daughters Shahani,
ten, and Heshini, eight - would love to go back to his old job.

He said: "I want to be a postmaster again. It's in my blood."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               November 15, 2009
                                 First Edition

Nurses are not heroines. They are professionals

BYLINE: Janet Street-Porter EDITOR-AT-LARGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1280 words


There's been plenty of hand-wringing over the news that from 2013 all new nurses
will have to spend three years studying for a degree to qualify. At present the
majority train for two or three years and are awarded a diploma. Critics claim
these higher standards mean that trainee nurses will spend time sitting in
lectures when they could be learning practical skills on the job, and widespread
concern has been expressed that the profession will attract the wrong kind of
applicants, more concerned with their careers than carrying out menial tasks.

I can't honestly see the problem. The very mention of the word nurse results in
a knee-jerk reaction from so many people. Nurses are right up there with the
RSPCA, donkey sanctuaries and Princess Diana when it comes to being sanctified.
Sure, most nurses are highly committed to their jobs, but at the end of the day,
they are specialised workers, not quasi saints or trainee miracle workers.

Medicine these days is increasingly high-tech. Surgeons operate using robots and
lasers. Aftercare involves a vast range of sophisticated gadgetry. The
combination of drugs that doctors prescribe these days is complex and the
dangers of administering wrong combinations or an inaccurate dosage should never
be underestimated. The old notion of nurse holding your hand and offering a few
words of emollient chat while taking your temperature is completely irrelevant
and arcane in today's modern hospitals.

A few years ago I took part in a television series that involved spending a
couple of weeks working in Barnsley General Hospital. It was crystal clear after
one day that hard-pressed nurses couldn't possibly do everything they were
supposed to. I saw at first hand that what the NHS needs is a two-tier system,
with far more nursing auxiliaries carrying out daily routine tasks plus a whole
army of cleaners and other helpers, working in teams led and directed by highly
qualified nurses.

Increasingly, hospital wards are full of people who shouldn't really be there at
all - old people who should be in care homes or hospices. The terminally ill,
who would be much more comfortable at home or in a hospice. Dementia sufferers,
who need specialised care. General wards should only be catering for patients
preparing or recovering from an operation or a procedure which means they are
bedridden. Everything should be geared to limiting their time in hospital, where
they are vulnerable to all sorts of infections, to as short a stay as possible.
Add to that the fact that hospital food is generally repulsive and most elderly
patients suffer from malnutrition, and it's clear that a hospital is not
somewhere you want to spend much time in.

Highly qualified nurses are needed to police standards and to speed up the
recovery process. They must understand the latest developments in patient care,
as well as being trained to direct a team and take decisions. That doesn't mean
they are not compassionate and caring, it's just that in a modern hospital
leaderships skills are essential. Giving patients a bed bath and feeding them
are tasks which should be carried out by assistants, who at the moment, are very
poorly paid with a starting salary of just £13,000, a pittance for very
challenging work in unpleasant circumstances. On some of the wards in Barnsley,
there were only two people helping to feed up to 15 old people at meal times. No
wonder the patients didn't want to eat - food was usually cold.

The nursing profession needs to attract more men, and more high-calibre entrants
who will take it forward and enable it to shed its out-of-date Florence
Nightingale image. In the past year there has been an increasing amount of
complaints about nurses who have failed to treat patients with respect and whose
levels of care leave a lot to be desired. By elevating the profession to
graduate status, as well as increasing pay for assistants, patients will get a
better deal. I encountered both good and poor nurses when my sister was
seriously ill in hospital, and it's too tempting to generalise.

It seems the nursing profession is one that no one can discuss dispassionately -
but insisting that nurses obtain a degree is a welcome step in the right
direction.

Comment

'The best way to move your child around is on her feet'

Susie Mesure

PAGE 44

Mrs Speaker Sally can do the talking if she wins for Labour

It was the votes of Labour MPs rather than those of his own party which secured
the plum job of Speaker for former right-wing Tory John Bercow. He's already
been criticised for spending thousands of pounds in expenses making his lavish
quarters "child-friendly" - he and his wife of seven years have three small
children. He has also appointed a load of toadies to the committee overseeing
expenses reforms. Now, the Tories are outraged to find that Sally Bercow, an
advertising executive, is to stand as a Labour councillor in Westminster. The
Bercows certainly seem, to have been on a long journey of self-discovery: they
met in 1989 when she was social secretary of Oxford University Conservatives and
Mr Bercow went to speak. Seven years later, Sally switched political allegiance,
and since then she's been credited with masterminding her husband's conversion
to Labour Party favourite. With these skills, surely she should be aiming for a
seat in the House? Perhaps she can't face her hubbie being able to tell her to
shut up in public? Mind you, he may be out of a job if he loses his seat at the
next election - bumptious UKIP leader Nigel Farage is standing against him in
Buckingham.

Captains of industry are adrift

Chris Smith used to be my local MP, a likeable bloke who probably wasn't
ruthless enough to survive long in government. As Culture minister, he oversaw
the introduction of the lottery and managed to find the money for museums to
offer free admission, but was replaced by Tessa Jowell after the 2005 election.
Now he sits in the Lords, and is chair of the Environment Agency.

Chris is a well-known walker and former President of the Ramblers Association -
but I wonder if he has left his sense of reality in the bottom of his rucksack.
Speaking at the agency's annual conference he announced that the only way to
meet climate change targets was with "personal carbon allowances" for each
member of the population. That way we would have to ration our holidays overseas
once we'd exceeded our quota.

How bloody ridiculous! The City is ablaze with light. The towers at Canary Wharf
have every floor illuminated at 5pm on a Sunday, air conditioning on full blast.
Why should ordinary members of the public sacrifice their hard-earned leisure
when our captains of industry do bugger all?

Gobbledegook at the Beeb

The BBC's decision to publish the salaries and expenses of 100 senior staff
might have seemed a chance to demonstrate how "transparent" it is, but it seems
to have backfired. Forty-six employees earn more than the Prime Minister, and
many receive this vast remuneration for running a branch of the entertainment
industry, not something affecting national security or the health and
livelihoods of the population. So self-important is the BBC it's invented a
special opaque language to dress up quite ordinary jobs and make them sound
highly sophisticated, requiring skills which mere mortals couldn't possibly do.
There's a Reward Director on a whopping £196,550 - he's in charge of pay - and
an Organisational Development and Change Director who handles targets and
contracts. There's even an Employee Relations and People Strategy Director. The
list is endless, setting new standards in meaningless pomposity. Weird how the
BBC exists to communicate - but speaks a language no licence payer understands.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 15, 2009 Sunday

LABOUR'S 'PINK PAPER FIX' GIVES MANDY THE FREEDOM OF HARTLEPOOL

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 551 words


A BITTER row erupted last night over a decision to make Peter Mandelson a
freeman of Hartlepool, the town he used to represent as an MP.

He faced claims of a 'Labour stitch-up' after councillors were forced to give
him the honour - or see it denied to four other people, including
Hartlepool-born sports presenter Jeff Stelling and

two local women who run groups for disabled children and women with breast
cancer.

'It was blatant emotional blackmail,' said one councillor at the secret meeting
where the Cabinet Minister's latest title was steam-rollered through. 'Labour
knew Mandy would be vetoed in an individual vote, so they attached his name to
the others. We had to vote for all of them - or none.

'To give him an honour on the backs of people with a life-long commitment to the
town is contemptible.' The decision was taken at a meeting of Hartlepool council
on November 5, held under so-called 'pink paper rules'.

These are used for secret matters and ban councillors from discussing what
happened. The 'pink' derives from pink paper used to flag up confidential items.

In the past, Hartlepool council has held individual votes on people nominated
for the honorary title of freeman.

But councillors determined to veto Lord Mandelson were shocked to discover the
ruling Labour group had plotted to sabotage them. Labour group leader Jonathan
Brash demanded a vote to lump the peer's name in with four other nominations for
freeman and two for alderman, a total of seven.

Amid angry scenes, the vote was tied at 19-all, with all but two votes in favour
coming from Labour councillors, including Lord Mandelson's former agent and
close ally, Steve Wallace. It was approved on the casting vote of Labour
chairman Carl Richardson.

The councillors were then called to vote on all seven nominations, which needed
a two-thirds majority to go through. If they voted against Lord Mandelson, they
would have to block popular Sky Sports presenter Jeff Stelling.

More significantly they would have to block Isobel Wilson of the town's Pansies
Breast Cancer Support Group and Wendy McLoughlin MBE, 63, who runs Hartlepool
Families First for disabled children.

A total of 32 votes were cast which, under the two-thirds majority rule, meant
22 votes were needed to secure Lord Mandelson's freeman title. The result was 22
to ten - with six abstentions.

Only one of five Tories, Pauline Laffey, voted in favour. A friend of Mrs Laffey
said: 'Pauline was disgusted by Labour's antics. But she could not bring herself
to stop Isobel and Wendy getting the awards.'

Steve Allison, a UKIP Hartlepool councillor, said: 'The whole affair is a
disgraceand an insult to democracy.' Mr Brash, 26 and tipped as a future Labour
MP, said: 'Under the 1972 Local Government Act, "pink paper" meetings are
confidential.'

Asked to defend Lord Mandelson's award, he put the phone down.

The decision takes Lord Mandelson's full title to 45 words. It now reads: The
Right Honourable Baron Mandelson of Foy in the county of Herefordshire and
Hartlepool in the county of Durham, Lord President of the Council, First
Secretary of State, and Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills
and Honorary Freeman of the borough of Hartlepool.

Lord Mandelson told The Mail on Sunday: 'I am thrilled once again to be honoured
by the people of Hartlepool.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 15, 2009

ESCAPE: Readers' page: AZED No. 1,955 Plain

SECTION: OBSERVER ESCAPE PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 467 words


ACROSS

1 Source of butter suitable for festivity, millions attending (5)

8 Conclude one's unproductive, tile loose (5)

12 Flexible drainage channel (6)

13 Shakespearean chime? Regret replacing final one in dance (7)

14 Courbet I'll associate with rural rambling in forestry? (13)

16 Composite plants without fronts so chill from behind (8)

17 Cord, delicate fabric substitute (7)

19 Unfinished quarrel maybe over occasional Scotch (4)

20 Mini's seat is more than adequate for this friendly little

creature (5)

22 Old gun but lacking kick (4)

25 Love worker maybe given lie in one owes a favour (7)

26 At it wretchedly for minimum of earnings in coppers - this? (7)

29 Heating device made up of parts circling centre of priory

(13, 2 words)

30 In company, miscast, plays ballad (7)

31 Lacking introduction, jargon that is like Arbroath speciality (6)

32 Old funeral song as witnessed in cathedral city (5)

33 Had a stab at a piece of German (forgetting the accent) (5)

DOWN

1 Caning (rear end) with a whack or swish (4)

2 Where passengers congregate, mail-train goes off with HM on

board (11, 2 words)

3 Jar piercing muscles - we'll have covered miles! (7)

4 A fishy creature, Ethel? (6)

5 Musician round centre of Frisco, one keen on paradigms (11)

6 Community overseeing Church see (4)

7 Dogwood bends, chopped in time - railway follows (11)

8 I go fishing with line in bay (5)

9 Produce of old orchard - a fig? True, but rotten (11)

10 Potential UKIP voter abandoned course, large-scale, taking only half of it in
(11)

11 Scottish kipper, most lavish, head removed (5)

15 Car leaving steep hillside with sound of loose parts in highland scramble?
(8)

18 Half of pair missing, threw out sock (7)

21 Royal (French), not old departing, turned up in encomia (6)

23 Name for girls famously left out of marriage process - a figurative touch (5)

24 She's acquisitive, pleased to surrender heart to king (5)

27 Captain and opening batsman (4)

28 Freak suit with court card? (4)

The Chambers Dictionary (2008) is recommended.

AZED 1,952 Solution & notes

Across 1, anag. incl. g(alos)h; 6, soya k (all rev.); 11, ICI in a pan; 14, see
etym. at ADA; 17, anag. in dement; 18, anag. less l; 24, Anton + I in omasa; 29,
cf. verse; 30, 0 in anag.; 32, e in anag.; 34, u in dresse(d).

Down 1, hidden; 2, Mis(s) Read; 3, anag. + PPE; 4, anag. in him; 7, a la RM; 12,
anag. in sheer; 18, s + hast RA; 19, KO r all in E(astern) inn; see def. of khan
in C; 20, 'A. makes the heart grower fonder'; 21, LIV in saic (rev.); 28, e +
toy (rev.).

AZED No. 1,952 Prizewinners

1 Brenda J. Widger, Altrincham, Cheshire

2 Peter Bamber, London N22

3 Mr M.J. Bibb, Banwell, N. Somerset

PRIZE RULES

pounds 25 in book tokens for the

first three correct solutions

opened. Solutions postmarked

no later than Saturday to

AZED No.1,955, The Observer,

90 York Way, London N1 9GU

Name

Address

Postcode


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 15, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro fiddles;
A letter spells trouble for Brown and a girl joins the Arrows ; TOP STORIES FROM
THE UK

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 120 words


Euro fiddles Expenses Tom Wise last week become the first British politician to
be sent to prison for fiddling his expenses. A former UK Independence party MEP,
Wise was sentenced to two years for fraudulent expenses' claims. A £39,000
annual secretarial allowance he claimed for a researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, was
actually mostly spent on a new car, fine wines and his credit card debts.

Wise initially pleaded not guilty at Southwark crown court to false accounting
but admitted the offence during the trial. Jenkins, 62, was cleared of the
charges against her.

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC, who rejected the suggestion that Wise had been
"bamboozled" by expenses' rules, said: "This was very deliberate and blatant
dishonesty."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 15, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Not so wise;
A letter spells trouble for Brown and a girl joins the Arrows ; TOP STORIES FROM
THE UK

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 93 words


Not so wise Expenses Tom Wise last week become the first British politician to
be sent to prison for fiddling his expenses. A former UK Independence party MEP,
Wise was sentenced to two years for fraudulent expenses' claims. A £39,000
annual secretarial allowance he claimed for a researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, was
actually mostly spent on a new car, fine wines and his credit card debts.

Wise initially pleaded not guilty at Southwark crown court to false accounting
but admitted the offence during the trial. Jenkins, 62, was cleared of the
charges against her.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 15, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly###

SECTION: LETTERS; 32

LENGTH: 290  words


I WAS horrified to read two letters supporting the BNP in last week's Sunday
Express. We are all fed up with the main parties but to vote for the BNP would
be jumping from the frying pan into a fascist fire. UKIP also promises release
from the EU, except for trading;

which is what we voted for in the first place, and to restore long-held values.
There are alternatives, so please think before putting us u n d e r t h e y o k
e o f n e o - N a z i s .

M Brakell, Redhill, Surrey MEMBERS of our Armed Forces are being killed and
injured in Afghanistan to allow its people to vote and have freedom of choice.
We, the British people, do not get a choice to vote in Europe for the things
that are important, not just for us but for our future. So why all the fighting,
loss of lives and billions it has cost us? What is the point of it all?

John Valentine, By e-mail IN response to your piece "If you don't like life in
the Royal Family, Kate, just put your hand up" (Sunday Express, November 8), I
think the media, not the public, are 'bored with Kate Middleton', and it stems
from their frustration at finding no dirt to dish on her, so they resort to
inane criticism for covering her face after arriving at Heathrow. Surely this
was merely a natural reaction to having a flash camera thrust three feet away
from her face?

Norman Rendle, Cardiff PAUL Mason, the world's fattest man, is said to suffer
from an eating disorder ("A heavyweight bill facing taxpayers", Sunday Express,
November 8). As he has been bedridden for years, I would say his carers are at
least partly to blame for supplying him with the vast amounts of food he eats.
Perhaps they should be responsible for the funding of his care and not the
taxpayer?

Shirley Whitman, Cardiff

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Meet Haiku Herman, Will Europe make him A very famous Belgian?;
The demise of Tony Blair's bid to become the EU's first president has opened the
way for a politician with more interest in Japanese poetry than publicity

BYLINE: Vanessa Mock IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 922 words


ONE IS a young, dynamic reporter with a blond quiff who roams the world in
search of adventure. The other is a greying, diminutive politician with glasses,
a penchant for poetry and a love of country life. On the face of it, Belgium's
national hero, Tintin, could not be more different from the man who is tipped to
be chosen as the European Union's first president next week.

Unlike Herge's boy reporter, Herman Van Rompuy was virtually unknown outside of
Belgium until a few weeks ago when his name began to do the rounds in Brussels
as a possible candidate for the newly created post of President of the European
Council. Yet the Belgian Prime Minister is seen by many of his own countrymen as
an unsung national hero who has quietly pulled Belgium back from the brink of
collapse thanks to his adroit political manoeuvrings, the twinkle in his eye and
a generous dose of wry humour.

Short in stature and slight of build, the 62-year-old is a master of
understatement who would be the first to admit he stumbled into high office by
accident and says he prizes intelligence over hard work. Mr Van Rompuy was
drifting towards retirement when he was plucked from his MP's office at the end
of 2008, amid a spiralling crisis that threatened to split the country's Flemish
and French-speaking communities and made Prime Minister at the behest of King
Albert II.

He made no secret of his reluctance to take on the near-impossible job of
keeping Belgium's brawling politicians from one another's throats over issues
ranging from the national budget to immigration. Three prime ministers had come
and gone in one year, yet within just a few months, Mr Van Rompuy worked his
discreet magic to quell the political flames, switching effortlessly from his
Flemish mother-tongue to French to heal the rift between the two language
groups.

"He's no big hitter, but don't underestimate Herman Van Rompuy," says Liesbeth
Van Impe from Belgium's daily newspaper, Het Nieuwsblad. "This country was in a
terrible state and he's managed to bring peace and stability. Today, there are
no more newspaper headlines predicting the collapse of our country. But now,
everyone is worrying about what will happen when he's gone."

Belgium's media pour accolades on their saviour, hailing him as a "miracle
worker" and "minimalist sage", but he remains a remarkably discreet and private
figure. Married with three children, the economist graduated from the venerable
University of Leuven. He cut his teeth at the Belgian central bank before
embarking on a long parliamentary career that has seen him preside over the
Flemish-branch of the Christian Democrats as well as becoming Deputy Prime
Minister and Speaker of parliament.

Yet many Belgians like him best for his quirky passion for haiku, a 17-syllable
form of Japanese poetry, which he composes in Flemish. Despite many painstaking
efforts by the media to extrapolate political messages from them, Mr Van
Rompuy's three-lined compositions are most often mini-odes to nature. His words
paint pictures of birds flitting across open skies and the setting of the sun on
the Belgian countryside or the coastline as a metaphor for inner serenity. "I
breathe easy," was a recent last line.

Tellingly, his homepage is mostly devoted to quotes and poems from his favourite
writers rather than to politics. Nor does it contain many references to Europe.
Although he has not dipped his toes in European or foreign affairs, opting
instead for a national focus, Mr Van Rompuy says his Jesuit upbringing imbued
him with a strong European identity. "When I was a student, the memory of the
war was still fresh in everyone's minds. So our teachers organised exchanges
with students from other European Jesuit colleges in Europe. That left a deep
impression on me because I realised that we were all deep down so very similar,"
he told Le Vif magazine last year.

Political colleagues also point to his avid interest in the drafting of the
European Constitution, which has now been replaced by the Lisbon Treaty. "He saw
it as the great adventure of the 20th century," says one. "He wants to see
Europe grow and expand beyond its borders."

Belgium's politician-poet has kept characteristically quiet on the question of
whether he would like to have the continent's top job, knowing full well that a
noisy candidacy would most likely spoil his chances. "The most important thing
now is not to say the wrong thing," he told Belgian reporters at a recent EU
summit. One political colleague commented: "He knows what he's doing. That's why
he's been opening his mouth only to breathe!"

Despite being the current front-runner, Mr Van Rompuy is probably well-prepared
for disappointment if European leaders decide to pluck another name out of the
hat at their summit on Thursday. He might seek consolation in one of his
favourite quotes by the German pianist Alfred Brendel: "I am always pessimistic,
in the hope of being surprised."

Poetic licence

The EU in verse

Independent staff were challenged to write a Brussels-themed haiku. This is what
they came up with. Think you can do better? Email us at:
yourindependent@independent.co.uk

* Yellow stars lost in the blue;

Now they can orbit

Mr President.

* Vote Haiku Herman.

Within Brussels has sprouted

Bitter taste for Blair.

* He writes poems!

That should cheer dull hours

Of talks on iron ore tariffs.

* Europe unites

And cheers the President,

Or is that Presidio?

* Vintage wine at lunch:

Expensed. At least it's not American, you claim.

* Europe pluribus unum,

But don't tell Ukip:

They just want unum.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

AND THE NOMINATIONS FOR 2009'S MIND HOW YOU GO AWARDS ARE ...

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1486 words


LITTLE over a month to go before the judges sit down with a bottle of Harvey's
Bristol Cream and a box of hand-made liqueur chocolates to choose the winner of
the prestigious Mind How You Go award.

This year's ceremony will take place in the recently refurbished Tony Stamp
Memorial Custody Suite at Sun Hill nick.

Dress code is black tie and a shiny evening suit which since last year has
mysteriously shrunk by two sizes while at the dry cleaners.

Guests are invited to assemble in the saloon bar of the Brownlow Arms at 11am
sharp for cocktails. From there they will be ferried to the venue in a fleet of
limousines, generously supplied by former Assistant Commissioner Bob Quick.

Dinner will be at 7.30pm. The organisers regret that the traditional menu of
British bangers and mash will not be available because the Muslim chef refuses
to handle pork. Instead we will be offering little legs of chicken, specially
flown in from Brazil.

We are delighted to announce that the evening's cabaret will be provided by Sir
Ian Blair, ex-Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, who has just found
employment as a traffic warden in the Thames Valley after a brief, unsuccessful
stint as an author.

Sir Ian, a previous multiple winner of the award, has kindly agreed to perform
his everpopular version of I Will Survive, which topped the crime charts briefly
before he was sacked.

As usual, the trophy will go to the force, individual officer or civilian
employee who has

done most to bring the police into disrepute during the previous 12 months.

Points are awarded for incompetence, stupidity, officiousness, brutality,
celebrating diversity and wrongful arrest.

Thousands of nominees from all over Britain have been whittled down to a
shortlist of several hundred. The judges' task has been made all the harder by a
bumper crop of late entries submitted only this week.

YESTERDAY, for instance, the Association of Chief Police Officers was
embarrassed into withdrawing a 93-page, two-volume pamphlet advising bobbies on
how to ride a bike.

It offers important information on balancing, pedalling, braking and avoiding
obstacles.

Officers are told they should not attempt to tackle a suspect while they are
still 'engaged with the cycle' and always remember to 'rear scan' -- what normal
people call looking over their shoulder. There is an elaborate diagram on
'deployment into a junction' -- turning right or left.

They are also advised to wear padded shorts for 'in-saddle comfort' and drink
'adequate liquids' to stop them getting thirsty.

Undercover officers using bikes present a particularly difficult conundrum. The
booklet agonises over whether they should be forced to wear a helmet, which
could blow their cover.

It concludes: 'This lack of protection must be noted and a full risk assessment
of the required role is to be undertaken.' Even the Home Office

thinks the booklet is bonkers, but it was designed to be distributed to every
force in the country. The cost has not been revealed, but it is estimated to
have run to thousands of pounds.

Still, it may explain another Mind How You Go contender from earlier this year.
This involved a policeman who refused to pose on a pushbike for a publicity
photo because he hadn't been sent on a cycling proficiency course.

PC Tony Cobban, from Preston, said at the time: 'I was just being cautious. My
concern would be if anything happens to me while on the bike and it hadn't been
risk-assessed or insured. In this day and age, you have to cover all the bases.'
He received the full support of Lancashire Police, no doubt acting on ACPO
advice.

Meanwhile, Derbyshire Constabulary has decided to abandon battering down drug
dealers' doors because the cost of repairing them is too high.

Over in Lancashire, cops are handing out cards to householders to put in their
windows to warn off carol singers, all now considered to be potential rapists,
murderers and aggravated burglars.

Elsewhere, Greater Manchester police have submitted not one, but

two entries this week. The first involves a civilian trainer who is suing for
religious discrimination. He was sacked because of his insistence that mediums
should be hired to interview murder victims in the spirit world and find out who
killed them.

A judge has ruled that Alan Power's belief that psychics should be brought in to
help criminal investigations is as valid as any religious conviction. He will
almost certainly win, given last week's ruling that 'climate change' worship now
counts as a bona fide religion.

Manchester cops are also being sent on special courses to teach them to improve
their manners.

THEY must not swear, speak sarcastically or act 'overbearingly' when dealing
with the public and criminals alike. Even the way they stand at a door could be
considered rude.

Maybe that's the real reason Derbyshire is mothballing its battering rams.
Smashing down someone's front door could be misinterpreted as rudeness.

Senior officers in the Manchester force have identified the drugs squad and the
riot squad as the worst offenders.

One Manchester officer, who asked not to be identified, complained to the Police
Review: 'We're being told that we have to be courteous to some scumbag we've
nicked a hundred times. We're not Mary Poppins, for God's sake.'

So that's 'You are surrounded by armed bastards' out of the window. No more:
'Put your trousers on, chummy, you're bleedin' nicked.'

In future the heavy mob will have to ring the doorbell and inquire politely: 'So
sorry to trouble you, sir, but if it's not too much trouble would you mind
awfully slipping in to your strides and accompanying us to the station.'

Yet in Cambridge, police mounted a dawn raid at 5.35am to arrest a terrified
67-year-old pensioner accused of swearing at a council official. He was held in
a windowless cell for six hours.

Any one of these could make the shortlist this year. With Sir Ian Blair no
longer eligible to enter, the field is wide open.

For the past few years the contest has been a two-horse race between Sir Ian and
the Mad Mullah of the Traffic Taliban -- who has also recently stood down and, I
can exclusively reveal, is to be honoured with a Lifetime Achievement Award at
the end of the evening.

After the ceremony, there will be a post-awards party at Spearmint Rhino, hosted
by former Detective Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin.

Carriages at 6am and on to Smithfield Market for a nightcap.

Mind How You Go.

MANDY: LABOUR'S SHAMELESS WONDER

IF PETER MANDELSON adds 'Minister of Information' to his Ruritanian conga line
of job titles, he'll be joining the ranks of a select few, including Goebbels
and Comical Ali.

Given that he's a cross between both of them, though without any of their charm,
I can think of nothing more appropriate.

He's even touting himself for a return to Europe as Lord High Executioner, or
something.

It's a sad reflection on my own trade that this malignant, preening affront to
democracy is treated as a proper person and his every utterance hailed as
brilliant. He seems to be on all channels, all the time.

After sucking up to The Sun for 15 years, Mandelson's now protesting because
Call Me Dave is doing the same. And it's being reported in some quarters as if
he's got a legitimate complaint.

He disdains the exploitation of Gordon Brown's letter to the mother of Guardsman
Jamie Janes as 'crude politicking' and feigns sorrow for the fallen soldier and
family.

This would be the same Peter Mandelson who, a few years ago when Labour was
surrendering to the IRA, went on Irish TV and trashed the Guards as 'chinless
wonders' -- betraying Labour's real view of those who serve in our armed forces.

Perhaps when he gives his first grand news conference as 'Minister of
Information' someone might get off their knees long enough to ask him if that's
what he still believes.

FORMER UK Independence Party MEP Tom Wise has been jailed for two years for
fraudulently claiming 639,000 in parliamentary expenses. At Westminster, one in
three MPs has been found guilty of wrongly claiming sums ranging from a few
hundred pounds to 6100,000. Yet even some of the worst offenders have been let
off with a slap on the wrist. If there was any justice in the world, they would
be sharing a cell with Tom Wise.

A FEW of the Prime Minister's surviving sycophants object to the publication of
his telephone call with Mrs Janes on the grounds that it was a violation of his
privacy.

Given that Labour has created a vast surveillance state, which spies upon and
stores our private emails and calls, and is building the world's biggest DNA
database, at least now he knows what a violation of privacy feels like.

WHO IS 'ALKY ADA'?

IT'S not just Gordon Brown's eyesight and handwriting which are wobbly. So is
his pronunciation.

During his explanation of the purpose of our mission in Afghanistan, he kept
referring to fighting 'Alky Ada' -- who sounds like a wino last seen sharing a
bottle of Buckfast with Edna the Inebriate Woman.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

OUT OF ORDER! TORY SPEAKER'S WIFE TO STAND ... FOR LABOUR

BYLINE: BY DAVID WILKES

LENGTH: 346 words


HE has already incurred the anger of his fellow Tories by being elected Commons
Speaker thanks to an avalanche of Labour votes.

Now diminutive John Bercow, whose campaign for the Speaker's chair was given a
lift by his crossparty marriage to a Left-wing activist, is causing yet more
sharp intakes of breath among his former colleagues.

This time the cause of the consternation is his glamorous other half, Sally, who
is to be a Labour candidate.

The 39-year-old advertising executive will fight for the Tory-held St James's
ward in Westminster in next May's council elections. She has been a member of
the Labour Party since 1997.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'If she wins it will be another husband and wife
Labour couple in Westminster.

'But I wonder whether he will be running her campaign for her from the Speaker's
House?'

Mr Farage is standing against Mr Bercow in Buckingham at the next general
election because he believes he represents 'all that is wrong with British
politics today'. The Speaker's office played down any talk of conflict between
Mr Bercow's and his wife's political affiliations. 'It is very well-known that
Sally is a Labour Party member and activist,' a spokesman said. 'It was known at
the Speaker's election. There is nothing wildly novel in this.'

He added: 'None of the rules that demand the Speaker must be impartial apply to
the Speaker's wife or family.'

Mr Bercow, 46, has infuriated Tory MPs by attacking David Cameron's privileged
background. He has also admitted he plotted for years to get the Speaker's job.
He won only a handful of Tory votes when he was finally elected in June.

Mr Bercow's many enemies within the Tory party complain that he discovered 'sex
and the Labour Party at the same time' after falling for the statuesque Sally
Illman.

The former hardline Right-winger and his wife, who have three children, met in
1989 at a Tory students' meeting in Oxford. He was the guest speaker and she was
social secretary of the university Conservative Association. But by 1997 she had
switched sides. She and Mr Bercow married seven years ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

DISGRACED MEP JAILED FOR FIDDLING EXPENSES

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 188 words


A FORMER MEP who fiddled £39,000 of expenses was jailed for two years yesterday.

Tom Wise, 61, who represented UKIP before becoming an independent, spent 13
months channelling the money into a bank account he secretly controlled.

He pretended the £3,000 ' secretarial assistance allowance' he received every
month was for his researcher Lindsay Jenkins, 62.

But London's Southwark Crown Court heard he spent most of it on a love of fine
wine, clearing credit card debts, buying a car and funding party political
activities.

When his dishonesty was exposed he did his best to worm his way out of trouble
by repaying a large slice of the cash.

Prosecutor Mark Fenhalls said that, but for the discovery, Wise ñ thought to be
the first British politician to be jailed for fiddling expenses ñ could have
pocketed up to £180,000.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, who left UKIP after the scandal,
originally denied false accounting between October 14 and November 16, 2004. But
during his trial he confessed.

Jenkins, who had also been on trial, was cleared of the false accounting charge
and an allegation of using criminal property.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Is Cameron a real radical, or just;
the compromise candidate?;
A lack of red meat on the Tory leader's policy menu is provoking rumblings on
the Right, warns Benedict Brogan

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1163  words


Conservative headquarters is fizzing with activity these days. The high command
is on alert for a March election. David Cameron has taken to holding his daily
9.30am strategy meeting in the Tory war room in Millbank Tower, ready for the
day when his operation will have to transfer from the Commons for the duration
of the campaign. The manifesto just needs a few tweaks. The coffers are full.
Discipline is being rigorously enforced. The party is straining at the slips,
hungry to seize and wield power.

The events of this week showed the strength of the Tory position. Those around
the leader relished Gordon Brown's discomfiture at the hands of The Sun and
Jacqui Janes. Their efforts are now concentrated on accelerating the work of
character demolition by getting the Prime Minister to debate with Mr Cameron on
television. With barely 130 days left to a likely polling day, and the Tory
campaign well underway, issues that were once used to define the party as
reactionary - the environment, poverty, the NHS, immigration - no longer hang
like millstones from the Conservative neck.

On Tuesday, Mr Cameron won another round of plaudits for a thoughtful speech on
welfare and his ambitions for replacing "big government'' with a "big society''.
There is quiet satisfaction, which stops just short of complacency, that the
party has successfully navigated tricky waters on expenses, spending cuts and
Europe. So if the Tory leader pauses to celebrate as he moves towards his fourth
anniversary in office, which will take him past his three predecessors in the
long-service table, it will surely be to mark how he has neutralised the
negatives, secured his flanks and turned his party into a credible fighting
force.

Yet somehow he gets no credit for these achievements in the polls. The latest,
this week, gave the Conservatives a scant 10-point lead over Labour, and
promised a majority of just two seats. Others are hardly more generous: at a
time when all Mr Brown touches turns to lead, the upper end of expectations is a
Tory majority of 60. No wonder MPs are so uneasy, with Ken Clarke even warning
of the perils of a hung Parliament. The rank-and-file's disquiet amounts to an
unspoken question: where is the radical edge we need to convince sceptical
voters?

This concern has been slow to come into focus. It has taken them a while to work
out that the individual policy compromises Mr Cameron has adopted by - he says -
force of economic and political circumstance add up to an agenda far removed
from the red-meat Toryism they believe would galvanise the extra tranche of
voters that are needed to be certain of a strong majority. But now they see a
pattern, and they don't like it.

On tax, the Tory Right remains disbelieving of George Osborne's decision to
accept - for the foreseeable future - Labour's new 50p rate. They would prefer
sizeable increases in indirect taxes, specifically VAT, booze and fags - to
allow some cuts in business and personal tax. The Tories, they argue, should be
about long-term certainty on tax rates. For 20 years, business knew that the top
rate was capped by consensus at 40p; restoring that certainty should be a
Conservative clarion call.

Some even contemplate with envy the rumours that it is in Downing Street where
radical action is being prepared, with a British version of an American "soda
tax'' on certain sugar products, to be sold as an attack on obesity. That it has
not worked in America - or elsewhere - does not deter them from thinking Mr
Osborne should be considering it, too.

Immigration equally fills the traditionalists with despair. They see Labour
moving to the Right, with self-serving confessions that its open-door policy has
been wrong all along, and wonder why Conservatives shouldn't follow. That
Labour's tactics are no more than a trap - due to be baited by Mr Brown in a
speech on migration tomorrow - makes no impression. Admittedly, views are mixed:
a recent note sent round to MPs by immigration spokesman Damian Green was
publicly praised by John Redwood. But there are plenty on the Right who say the
public will reward a more robust policy.

Ditto, everything to do with the Big Brother state. Spend any time with a
Conservative MP these days, and at some point he will report his constituents'
anger over police and bureaucratic intrusion. "Why aren't we promising to roll
all this back, to pull down CCTV cameras, to abolish the Independent
Safeguarding Authority, to tear down the human rights industry?'' says one. A
radical Tory party would have more to say about repealing rather than inheriting
Labour's dirty work.

Those close to the Cornerstone Group of social conservatives were delighted to
hear Mr Cameron say this week that he is "aggressively'' pro-family. But they
suspect his pledge to abolish the penalty for couples in the tax credit system,
and make marriage and civil partnerships pay, will tumble down the priority list
in the name of fiscal realism.

The same doubts hover over welfare policy. Yesterday's unemployment figures
underscored how difficult it will be for private companies to make a profit from
finding jobs for those on the welfare rolls, leaving doubts over projections for
how fast the Conservatives' scheme to reduce welfare costs will work. If the
Tories want to be radical, their MPs wonder, then why not put a time limit on
paying benefits, as happened successfully in America?

Such worries dog even the sphere of education, where Michael Gove is recognised
as one of the few genuine star turns of the operation. Those of a suspicious
disposition claim - with scant evidence - that he is wobbling on whether to
allow private-sector operators to become involved in the setting up of a new
generation of independent schools. Others, who take an interest in Swedish
models of education, complain about his seeming reluctance to allow those who do
set up schools under the scheme to make a profit.

It doesn't end there. On Afghanistan, on Europe, on reducing the size of the
government payroll, even on the ambitions of Mr Osborne to emulate Mr Brown's
finger-in-every-pie chancellorship, you will hear complaints from more MPs than
Mr Cameron would admit. Ukip's threat to have candidates in every constituency
spreads fear.

Mr Cameron's job is to win an election by any means he sees fit. He must account
for the public scepticism that holds back his progress. He would say that the
radicalism he promises is aimed at achieving long-term social, political and
economic change, not easy headlines that would risk reviving public doubts about
the "nasty party''. He would answer the Right with a question of his own: if it
matters so much, why are you so quiet?

That, surely, is the greater mystery. Not that a series of political
compromises, when put together, look modest in ambition and light on populist
bite - but that MPs who used to think nothing of shafting the leadership on a
point of principle now have nothing to say about it. Truly, power must be at
hand.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Two years for MEP who fiddled expenses scam

BYLINE: John Bingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 563  words


A FORMER UK Independence Party MEP who fraudulently claimed  pounds 39,000 of
parliamentary expenses was jailed for two years yesterday.

Tom Wise, boasted openly about "repatriating'' money from the European Union as
he made  pounds 3,000-a-month claims for office staff, a court heard.

He paid his researcher a fraction of the allowance and funnelled the rest into a
secret bank account he used to pay for shipments of fine wines and other
personal items.

Southwark Crown Court heard that the former member for the East of England could
have pocketed up to  pounds 180,000 had the suspicious claims not been exposed
by The Sunday Telegraph in 2005.

He later managed to fool senior European Parliament officials into clearing him
of wrongdoing in an investigation with a series of lies about where the money
had gone, the court heard.

Wise, 61, finally admitted the fraud last week, changing his plea to guilty at
his trial for false accounting just as his former party leader, Nigel Farage,
was due to give evidence against him.

His researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, 62, an author and political commentator, who
had also been on trial, was cleared.

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC, told Wise, who was elected in 2004, that he was guilty
of a "gross breach of trust''.

"It is no exaggeration to say that you had hardly got your feet beneath your
desk as an MEP before you were planning to defraud the parliament to which you
were elected and the people you were elected to serve,'' he said.

"This was very deliberate and blatant dishonesty. You knew the system of
expenses inside out and this was a claim you devised and planned with some
care.''

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, was described in court as a "rising star'' in
Ukip and sat on the parliament's culture, media and sport committee. He was
forced to sit as an independent until the end of his term earlier this year
after Ukip withdrew the whip.

The court heard that Wise claimed  pounds 3,000 per month on his parliamentary
"secretarial assistance allowance'' but paid Mrs Jenkins, of Barons Court, west
London, only  pounds 500.

Although her signature appeared on the claims, it emerged that she was asked to
sign blank documents that Wise would then complete. She was cleared of charges
of false accounting and using criminal property after the disgraced politician's
admission.

A police investigation found that Wise spent  pounds 3,500 of the money on 19
cases of fine wine. He also used  pounds 6,800 to clear his credit card bills,
bought himself a second-hand Peugeot 206 with  pounds 6,400, and spent at least
pounds 1,200 on Ukip leaflets.

When the suspicious claims were investigated by the European Parliament's
director general of finances Wise claimed that none of the money had been spent,
other than Mrs Jenkins's salary, and repaid more than  pounds 25,000.

The judge noted: "This offence came to an end not because your conscience got
the better of you, but only because your activities were exposed by the press,
after which time you terminated the claim and repaid your ill-gotten gains in
the hope of avoiding prosecution.''

Jonathan Fisher QC, defending, said the disclosures had been "truly
catastrophic'' for his client.

"His reputation and integrity in tatters - the pathos of his plight is palpable
for all to feel and to see,'' he said.

Wise was also ordered to pay  pounds 30,000 towards the costs of the
prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TWO YEARS JAIL FOR POLITICIAN IN  39,000 EXPENSES FIDDLE;
LEADER

SECTION: LEADER; 15

LENGTH: 123  words


AN EX-MEP who fiddled GBP 39,000 in expenses was jailed for two years yesterday.

Tom Wise, 61, who was a Ukip member of the European parliament before going
independent, spent 13 months channelling the money into a secret bank account.

He pretended a GBP 3,000 monthly "secretarial assistance allowance" was for his
62-year-old researcher Lindsay Jenkins. But London's Southwark Crown Court heard
that he spent most of the money on fine wines, clearing credit card debts,
buying a car and funding party political activities. Wise confessed after
initially pleading not guilty.

He said he was entirely to blame and told the court that Jenkins, who was also
on trial, was innocent. She was cleared of false accounting and using criminal
property.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary: We know what Rupert said, but what did he mean? Is
Obama a redneck or isn't he?

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 635 words


Bit of a tricky corner for uber-publisher Rupert Murdoch as he seeks to convince
the world, and perhaps himself, that he never said President Obama was racist.
He was defending his rightwing Fox News commentator Glenn Beck, who said Obama
"has exposed himself as a guy, over and over and over again, who has a
deep-seated hatred for white people or white culture . . . this guy is, I
believe, a racist". And in so doing, Murdoch said: "Obama did make a very racist
comment about blacks and whites and so on, which he said in his campaign he
would be completely above. And that was something which perhaps shouldn't have
been said about the president, but if you actually assess what he was talking
about, (Beck) was right." According to his spokesman, Gary Ginsberg, Murdoch
"does not at all, for a minute, think the president is a racist". But what does
he think? Ginsberg doesn't say, and meanwhile everyone is making up their own
minds by watching what Murdoch actually said via YouTube. With one bound he was
free? Not quite. Perhaps Ginsberg should have another go.

Or perhaps Murdoch should have another go. Some on Fox have likened Obama to
Stalin, said the interviewer on Sky News Australia. "No, no, no, not Stalin, I
don't think, ah, not one of our people," said Murdoch. Cue the Media Matters for
America website, with more Fox footage of a Glenn Beck promotional trailer
juxtaposing pictures of Obama (and Gordon Brown, as it happens) with shots of
Hitler and Stalin and Lenin. "Is this where we are headed?" asks the dark voice
of Fox. Poor Rupert. Did anybody bother to brief him?

So well done, everybody. Another Armistice Day. Poppies all presentable. The 11
o'clock silence respectfully observed. There was a slight problem on the 10.28
East Midlands Trains service from Nottingham to London. The train manager
solemnly announced just before 11 that there would be a two-minute silence on
the train to allow all passengers to pay their respects. Within a few seconds,
the silence was broken by the intercom and the voice of a catering manager
offering "a good selection of hot and cold drinks and snacks". But then two
minutes is a long time if you are hungry. That aside, well done for another
year.

Because the fate of the planet lies in our hands, we are invited to a precursor
event to the crucial climate talks in Copenhagen. Press conferences, preliminary
discussions - that sort of thing. Is there an audio link or a webcast, we ask?
No, but you could fly here, comes the answer. It'll be nice.

So today's the day in the Glasgow byelection, and, desperate for something to
lift the party, Labour is fighting for every vote. One canvasser, keen as
mustard, phoned a certain William Bain to ask the household if they would be
supporting Willie Bain, Labour's candidate. "Hi, it's his mum here; he's out
canvassing," the supportive householder said.

We are still sifting through your submissions for the all-new contemporary
proverb, but it continues to be a sombre process. "Life is a dog, and not just
for Christmas," says reader Ron Johnson. What is it? The onset of winter? The
dark mornings? Something's wrong.

But then it's hard to be cheerful, given the calamity of yesterday, when Tom
Wise (pictured), once a Ukip MEP for the East of England, was jailed for two
years for fiddling his expenses to channel £39,000 into a secret bank account.
The loss of an independent voice we mourn, and we see the damage this will do to
our already shaky relationship with the European parliament. Of course it's a
personal tragedy. But most of all, we're sad because Tom had in the past been
this diary's unofficial film critic, pouring scorn on all those hard-to-follow,
taxpayer-funded arthouse movies, especially the Belgian ones. We can replace
him, of course, but it will be hard.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Former MEP jailed for fraud;
Britain in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 44 words


COURTS A former MEP who fraudulently claimed £39,000 in expenses was jailed for
two years yesterday. Tom Wise, 61, who represented Ukip before turning
independent, spent most of the money on wine, clearing credit card debts, buying
a car and party political activities.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

TWO YEARS IN JAIL FOR FIDDLING MEP;
POUNDS 39K FAKE EXPENSES CON

BYLINE: JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 210 words


A SHAMED former MEP who raked in pounds 39,000 expenses to buy a car and fine
wine was last night behind bars.

Tom Wise, 61, who represented Ukip before turning independent, spent 13 months
channelling the money into a bank account he secretly controlled.

He pretended a monthly pounds 3,000 "secretarial assistance allowance" was for
his 62-yearold researcher Lindsay Jenkins. But most of it went towards booze,
the car, clearing credit card debts and political costs.

Sentencing Wise to two years' jail yesterday, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin told him:
"You hardly got your feet beneath your desk before you were planning to defraud
the parliament to which you were elected. You knew the expenses system inside
out and devised this claim with care."

The judge said if the fraud had not been exposed by a newspaper it may have run
to more than pounds 100,000. He added at London's Southwark crown court: "It's
sad to see a family man with so much going for you who has now brought himself
so low."

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, confessed to fraud during his trial last week
just before Ukip leader Nigel Farage was to give evidence against him.

Mrs Jenkins, who signed blank documents, was then cleared of a false accounting
charge. Wise must also pay pounds 30,000 costs.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISGRACED Ex-MEP Tom Wise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Britain - Fiddling MEP jailed for two years

LENGTH: 88 words


EXPENSES: Former UKIP MEP Tom Wise, who fiddled £39,000 in expenses, was jailed
for two years yesterday.

Mr Wise, who represented UKIP before turning independent, spent 13 months
channelling the money into a bank account he secretly controlled, pretending the
£3,000 "secretarial assistance allowance" he received every month was for his
researcher Lindsay Jenkins.

But London's Southwark Crown Court heard he had spent most of it funding a love
of fine wine, credit card debts, buying a car and funding party political
activities.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BRIT EURO MP JAILED FOR £39k EXES FIDDLE

BYLINE: LEE CAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 173 words


A FORMER British Euro MP who fiddled £39,000 in expenses was yesterday jailed
for two years.

Tom Wise, 61, is believed to be the first British politician to be sent to
prison for an expenses scam.

Wise, who represented UKIP before turning independent, pretended the £3,000
"secretarial assistance allowance" he received every month was for his
researcher. But for 13 months he channelled the money into a secret account.
Wise, East of England Euro MP from 2004 to June this year, spent most of it
funding a love of fine wine, clearing credit card debts, buying a car and paying
for party political activities.

When his dishonesty was exposed he tried to get out of trouble by repaying a
large slice of the cash, London's Southwark Crown Court heard.

Prosecutor Mark Fenhalls said if the 2004 scam had not been discovered he could
have ended up pocketing £180,000. Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, originally
denied false accounting but later changed his plea. Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC,
said: "This was a very deliberate and blatant dishonesty."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shamed ... Wise yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ex-MEP jailed for fraud

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 84 words


The former East of England UKIP MEP Tom Wise was jailed for two years yesterday
for channelling £39,000 of expenses into a secret bank account. Wise, 61, of
Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, is thought to be the first British politician to
be sent to prison for fiddling expenses. Judge Geoffrey Rivlin, QC, told him at
Southwark Crown Court, London: "The position which you held as an elected
representative was one of high privilege and trust ... This was a claim you
devised and planned with some care."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ex-MEP jailed for fraud

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 71 words


The former East of England UKIP MEP Tom Wise was jailed for two years yesterday
for channelling £39,000 of expenses into a secret bank account. Wise, 61, of
Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, is thought to be the first British politician to
be sent to prison over expenses. Judge Geoffrey Rivlin, QC, told him at
Southwark Crown Court, London: "The position you held as an elected
representative was one of high privilege and trust."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday

When it comes to Europe, the Tories are howling in the night;
The other 26 EU countries are not about to exhume the corpse of national
sovereignty, says Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1187  words


Politicians find it hard to be honest with the public because the truth always
hurts, and disaffects, a large portion of the electorate. The fraudulent debate
being conducted about our economy, and how to revive it, is the result of this;
and so, too, is the problem the Conservative Party has about Europe. That
problem is back, mutating into a civil war, and it is going to get much worse.

It is curious that David Miliband should find it preferable to be the leader of
the opposition of a glorified county council than to be the leading proconsul of
an imperial power: he seems not to have accurately appraised the full reach of
the superstate created by the Treaty of Lisbon. David Cameron, by contrast,
seems to have worked that out, which is why he was so fervently opposed to the
treaty's being enacted.

I do not doubt his sincere dislike of the treaty. Lisbon countermands any idea
of a British democracy. That our Prime Minister should have signed it was a
constitutional outrage. But Mr Cameron's inevitable decision to abandon his
"cast iron'' promise to have a referendum was handled extremely foolishly. He
should have done it sooner rather than appear to have strung people along. I do
not know whether he is obtuse or simply dishonest. I do not know at which point
he realised that there would not continue to be a separate entity called the
Treaty of Lisbon from which, by repealing an Act of Parliament, he could have
Britain resile at any time. I do not know when he worked out that it was going
to be consolidated into the governing treaty of the European Union. I do not
know whether he has realised that the only referendum it is feasible for him to
call, should he have the power to do so, is one that asks the public whether
they wish Britain to stay in the EU, or to get out.

I do not like to impugn anyone's motives - even when he is Leader of the
Opposition - but the mess Mr Cameron made last week in this desperate attempt to
distract attention from his humiliating

U-turn does raise further questions. In setting out his new policy towards
Europe, he seemed to show a continued unrealism about the institution with which
he is dealing.

The policy consisted of three points. The first was a promise to hold
referendums on any new European treaties. The second was to introduce a
Sovereignty Bill to prevent certain powers ever being given abroad. The third
was a specific promise to repatriate powers concerning the Charter of
Fundamental Rights, employment and criminal law. As a codicil to this literally
incredible performance, William Hague discounted an assertion by Pierre
Lellouche, the French minister for Europe, that this would "castrate'' Britain
in the EU.

Let us take each of these points in turn. Should Mr Cameron become prime
minister and command a majority in Parliament, there would be nothing to stop
him having referendums on future European treaties. All that would be required
would be treaties to have the referendums on. More than a year ago, the
Commission decreed that there had been enough treaty-making in Europe, after the
single market, Maastricht, Amsterdam, Nice and now Lisbon. It said the time had
come for Europe to get on with being Europe, and to stop being distracted by
making rules. It said there would be no new intergovernmental conference for 10,
or possibly 15 years. This would mean that Mr Cameron would have to serve for
longer than Tony Blair, or as long as Lady Thatcher, to have the chance to
demonstrate this aspect of his commitment to democracy.

A Sovereignty Bill is an interesting concept, in much the same way as is
shutting a stable door after the horse has bolted. All those treaties I have
listed above, and the European Communities Act 1972 that began the whole process
for us, have removed too much already. Such a law could also bring us into
conflict with Brussels. The removal of more of our sovereignty is guaranteed by
the ratchet effect of Lisbon, and the loss under it of so many of our vetos.
This is a tiresome point, but one worth Mr Cameron bearing in mind. As for the
repatriation of powers, that would require the agreement of all other 26 EU
countries. That will not happen. Having all agreed to bury the corpse of
national sovereignty, after a long illness and extended funeral, they are not
now going to agree to its exhumation. This brings us back to Mr Lellouche, who
made this point to the Conservatives last week. Mr Hague countered with the
assertion that Mr Lellouche's was a minority view. I am afraid that is not true,
as Mr Hague will find if he glances through most of the European press. All the
Conservative Party is doing is howling in the night.

When Mr Cameron sees cocktail parties of the sort we witnessed in Berlin this
week, with happy, smiling European leaders rejoicing in the new order, he must
rather wish he had an invitation. He also knows that one of the perceived
hallmarks of his party's so-called "nastiness'' was their objection to our
subsummation into the European superstate. Yet it was only with the support of
25 or so Eurosceptic MPs in the autumn of 2005 that his leadership campaign took
off. Payback for them was the new alignment in the European Parliament that
finds his party hobnobbing with alleged homophobes, anti-Semites and adulators
of the Waffen SS, charges which have been hotly denied. He knows too that
without the votes of millions of committed Eurosceptics he is sunk at the next
election - especially if they split the vote in countless target seats by voting
for Ukip, whose position on the EU is at least unequivocal. The anger among Tory
voters that has followed his climbdown on the referendum is a warning of what
will come when Europe next seeks to help itself to what we think is ours.

How long he can hold the meaningless new line remains to be seen. He must hope
it will last until he has had his meeting with destiny - or, rather, the
electorate - next spring. I suspect it will not be long after the treaty comes
into force on December 1 that the full implications of it will become apparent
to even the most casual observer, and with it the emptiness of Mr Cameron's
promises. He does seem to make European policy without ever considering its
consequences - as with his promise to leave the European People's Party, his
promise to have a referendum, and now his promise to save British sovereignty.
As Norman Lamont's boot boy, Mr Cameron had a ringside seat for the travails of
John Major during the last civil war. He appears to have learned little from the
exercise. Sir John encouraged false expectations and they were destroyed by the
reality of the European project. Mr Cameron, even before he gets into power,
risks making the same, corrosive mistake.

Perhaps when we all realise how much has been sacrificed for us in the name of
European unity it will be easier for alleged sceptics like Mr Cameron to tell
the truth. One thing, though, is never in doubt. To pretend that Britain might
one day dine à la carte from the menu of the Treaty of Lisbon would be just the
latest grotesque deceit practised upon this country allegedly in the cause of
Europe.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday

Cameron's nasty friends

BYLINE: Edward McMillan-Scottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1162 words

ABSTRACT

Edward McMillan-Scott: I was expelled from the Tories for my defiance on Europe
- but the leadership is still rewarding its extreme elements

FULL TEXT

David Cameron resolutely reasserted control over his EU policy on  by deciding
to act as the future prime minister, ruling out ideas of a "" and putting
forward a  of reform  - as I anticipated on the  the day before.

There remains one obstacle to achieving any of those reforms, which are well  in
the Sunday Telegraph. Cameron must now abandon the  from , wished on him by his
Ukip tendency, and dissolve the irrelevant and incoherent group he created in
the European parliament. Under the Lisbon treaty, MEPs gain significant new
powers of crucial interest to Britain that must not be wasted.

Cameron's new approach was endorsed, apparently, by the vast majority of
Westminster parliamentarians, but the  brigade - whose members Cameron will not
allow in his shadow cabinet - have publicly broken ranks.

Two Better Off Out MEPs, Daniel Hannan and Roger Helmer - the core of Brussels'
notorious anti-EU H-block - have resigned their spokesmanships to give them more
time to campaign for a referendum, any referendum, on Britain's EU membership.
David Cameron should expel them from the Conservative party not only for this
hazard to his chances of becoming PM, but also for their serial disloyalty. If
they are not expelled -  - Cameron may be accused of double standards.

Dan Hannan's  accentuates the failure of the Tory high command's previous EU
approach. He was "dog-whistle Dan", whose populist anti-Brussels approach was
intended to appeal to Ukip voters - and worse. He was given a ten-minute slot at
the  by William Hague. Hannan has agitated since 1998 for a split from the EPP -
the alliance of all the EU's centre-right parties. Hague, whose role in the
failed strategy is rightly now coming under the spotlight, tried and failed in
1999 to find new partners.

The enlargement of the EU in 2004 to central/eastern Europe, Cyprus and Malta
offered new opportunities. In 2005, during the leadership campaign, Cameron was
persuaded by Better off Out to  to split from the EPP so as to win the hardline
MPs' vote: another contender, David Davis - a former Europe minister - refused.

William Hague took charge of the search for partners. In 2006, he and Timothy
Kirkhope, leader of the Tory MEPs, conducted the party's first "due diligence".
The heads of the Tory MEPs' Brussels and London offices who did this study
refused to work with the new European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group
and sought jobs elsewhere. Has this and more  now been handed over by the Tories
to the Board of Deputies of British Jews, as requested several weeks ago? I have
submitted my own findings to them.

The main problem is that Hague recommended including 15 Polish MEPs from the Law
and Justice party, which has absorbed the even more extreme nationalist
(described on the BBC's Today Programme by Poland's chief rabbi as "beyond the
pale" because of their anti-Semitism) and the ghastly League of Self-Defence.

When Hague designated Michal Kaminski - a Pole with recent antisemitic,
homophobic and racist links - as the ECR's candidate for vice-president of the
European parliament, I stood against him and won, losing the Tory whip but
gaining the support of many for my stand against the rise of "disguised
extremism". In a deal between London and Warsaw, Kaminski instead replaced
Kirkhope - elected that day - as leader of the ECR

Hague then initiated an extraordinary campaign involving at one time eight party
press officers, attacking me and , but especially defending Kaminski. On 15
September, without contacting me or giving a reason, Hague expelled me from the
party.

Hague's campaign included parading Kaminski before the Jewish Chronicle and the
more credulous blogger Iain Dale at the party conference: Dale's interview is
reprinted across five pages in Lord Ashcroft's . Now, , the ECR has gone into a
bunker. Why?

Perhaps because Hague has used EU rules to create a Brussels-based transnational
alliance of parties and a political foundation, based on the ECR's MEPs, to win
about . And who has he put in charge of these new entities? Anti-EU Dan Hannan,
now leading the campaign against official Tory Europe policy, and Geoffrey van
Orden, who had immersed himself in the process of building the ECR.

As to Kaminski, Hague's attempts to portray him positively are falling apart. A
key player, Poland's chief rabbi Michael Schudrich, who appeared to support
Kaminski on the BBC's Today Programme, told last week's  that he finds
Kaminski's continuing defence of his 2001 attempts to stop a presidential
apology for the 1941 massacre of hundreds of Jews by Poles at the village of ,
part of the Holocaust, "distasteful and wrong". This event was so appalling that
it is the basis for Our Class -  at the National Theatre.

Schudrich questions Kaminski's version of his membership of the National Revival
of Poland (), "a nasty, fascist-leaning, antisemitic party". Kaminski says he
was in it as a 14 or 15-year-old. But NOP itself told the  that he was in it
between 1989 and 1991, aged between 17 and 20. Dissembling like this may explain
why his Tory minders do not want Kaminski exposed to Channel 4 News, BBC
Newsnight or the Sunday Times, all of whom have tried recently to interview him.
Is this because Kaminski's  are a matter of record and easily discovered on the
web? He denied wearing the fascist Chrobry Cross, the NOP symbol, in 2000 and
then .

The last time Kaminski gave a British  was on 15 July, when inter alia he
pretended he had never used homophobic language. The BBC found a Polish
television clip of him describing gays as pedaly - "boy bangers": when
challenged by the interviewer that the term is offensive, he repeats it. There
is much more.

The reputational damage to Cameron because of the new ECR group has not been
restricted to the left. Many have observed its inability to shape legislation,
with one example being the failure to get any of the five key spokesmanships in
the European parliament on the current economic crisis. It is widely seen as an
incoherent collection of Eurosceptics, individuals from marginal parties and .
Bizarrely, Kaminski, the leader of this so-called anti-federalist group, is
pro-Lisbon treaty.

Will David Cameron have the courage to do what veteran Yorkshire Post columnist
Bernard Dineen , namely to rescind my expulsion and give the Conservative party
the alliance its history and policies deserve, with the mainstream EPP?

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tories 'heading for 90-strong majority';
Poll of polls result emboldens critics who want new Labour leader

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 634 words


Labour has failed to dent the Conservatives' opinion poll lead as David
Cameron's party improves its ratings on the economy, according to The
Independent's latest "poll of polls".

Gordon Brown's government is even more unpopular than John Major's
administration before it slumped to an inevitable defeat at the 1997 election.
The grim findings may embolden Labour backbenchers who are plotting another
attempt to force the Prime Minister to stand down before the general election.
One critic said yesterday: "We can't go on sleepwalking to defeat. Something has
got to give."

Last year, Labour got a five-point boost from the autumn party conference season
but the latest study shows no similar benefit from this year's conferences.
Ministers had hoped to close the gap last month but Labour's failure leaves them
pinning their hopes for a revival on the forthcoming pre-Budget report, which
will spell out the Government's spending priorities.

The latest weighted average of the polls puts the Tories on 42 per cent, Labour
on 28 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 18 per cent. These figures would
give Mr Cameron an overall majority of 90 if repeated at a general election.
Although Labour is three points up on the previous month, the Tories are also up
three, so Labour has made no inroads into its 14-point lead.

Labour is less popular than the Major government at the same stage of the
electoral cycle. It averaged 30 per cent in surveys taken between the 1996 Tory
conference and the end of October that year.

John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, who compiled the
"poll of polls", said: "Labour must be increasingly concerned that too many
voters have fallen out of love with the party for too long for it to have much
hope of making a significant recovery between now and a general election that
has to be held within eight months."

This year's conferences did not appear to have any real impact on the standing
of the three main parties, said Professor Curtice. "The battle for economic
competence is still clearly being won by the Conservatives," he added. "Indeed,
if anything they are becoming increasingly successful in persuading the public
they are the better economic managers. It seems as though the Tories' focus at
their conference on how they would handle the debt crisis and the economy did
them no harm at all. It is difficult to see how Labour will succeed in narrowing
the Tory lead unless it can reverse this perception."

The crumb of comfort for Labour is that the Tories have not regained the
popularity ratings they enjoyed last year. Between May and September last year,
Mr Cameron's party averaged 44 per cent in the "poll of polls".

Professor Curtice said: "David Cameron must still be concerned that he has still
not 'sealed the deal' with sufficient voters so that Labour could not at least
claw its way back to hung-parliament territory."

One explanation could be the row over MPs' expenses. However, support for minor
parties appears to have declined and has almost returned to its level before the
European Parliament elections in June, when Ukip and the BNP gained ground. But
there is little sign of a boost for the BNP following the appearance of its
leader Nick Griffin on BBC's Question Time. Two surveys conducted since do not
suggest it had a positive impact, although a third did suggest the party had
gone up from 2 to 4 per cent.

Brown allies dismissed speculation of another coup attempt, pointing out that
the Prime Minister saw off two previous rebellions last summer and this June.
But his critics plan to field a "Brown must go" candidate against Tony Lloyd, a
loyalist who comes up for re-election as chairman of the Parliamentary Labour
Party later this month.

Labour are running out of viable options - and people

Michael Brown, page 33

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Who's got the X factor?;
GLASGOW NORTH EAST BY-ELECTION..MEET THE CANDIDATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 1656 words


GORDON BROWN'S premiership faces its next big test when the voters of Glasgow
North East go to the polls for Thursday's by-election.

It was triggered after shamed Speaker Michael Martin was forced to stand down as
an MP over the expenses scandal.

ANDREW NICOLL and GRAEME DONOHOE look at the 13 runners and riders for one of
the most colourful Scottish by-elections for years ...

Willie Bain: Labour

LABOUR'S Willie Bain is the only one of the 13 candidates who lives in the
constituency.

For some reason that has become a big issue in this campaign.

In fact a local pedigree seems to be the only issue in this campaign.

Not the war, not the economy, not the fact that Michael Martin was the first
Speaker to lose his job in 200 years after the biggest scandal ever to hit
Westminster, not the fact that Glasgow North East has the seventh highest rate
of benefit claimants in the UK.

No, the big deal is: "Who comes from Springburn?"

Bain, a law lecturer and Constituency Labour Party secretary, has worked hard in
North East, building up the party's local organisation and helping to track down
thousands of voters who had dropped off the radar.

And he's been prepared to break ranks with the Labour leadership over the Afghan
war.

It's a sign of strength from a man who is confident of election. Whether he will
remain independent-minded at Westminster remains to be seen.

The Bain campaign has concentrated on telling Glaswegians how they have been
ripped off by the SNP, reminding them how angry they should be that the Nats
cancelled plans for a rail link to the airport when they could have cut health
spending instead.

As long as the voters believe Springburn was a paradise before the SNP took
power two years ago, it might just work.

Eileen Baxendale: Lib Dem

THE Lib Dems are no-hopers in this election.

They did the decent thing last time and stuck by rules which say the Commons
Speaker is supposed to get a free run. So no one knows how little support they
have in Glasgow North East. It won't be much.

Baxendale - a councillor for Rutherglen South - has been chosen to take the
lumps

She is chair of the Integrated Children's Services committee and has served on a
number of church committees - as co-ordinator of the Castlemilk Churches
Together Refugee Centre, secretary of the Scottish Churches Racial Justice Group
and as a member of the Council of the Baptist Union of Scotland.

According to the Lib Dem website she has "several" grown-up children. They can't
be more specific.

Charlie Baillie: BNP

BAILLIE is an electrical contractor and a member of the BNP since 2006.

He's been the party's Glasgow Organiser since May 2008.

He has failed to win a place at Holyrood, in Europe and in Glasgow City Council.
He's campaigning on an antiimmigration platform.

The low turn-out expected this week could mean that their tiny vote adds up to
more than 5 per cent of the poll - enough to save their deposit for the first
time in a Westminster election.

Mev Brown: Independent

BROWN is a semi-professional election candidate. He joined the Tory Party to
campaign against Labour over Iraq and made it on to the candidates' list for
2005. But he quit after the last General Election and went freelance.

He stood as an Independent in Livingston, joined UKIP to stand for Edinburgh
City Council then moved to Moray for the by-election following the death of
Maggie Ewing, standing as the NHS First candidate.

Brown stuck with the NHS tag in the 2007 Scottish elections and was with the
Jury Team in the European elections earlier this year.

This time the Jury Team has chosen another candidate so Mev is back as an
Independent.

Now his big issue is pulling Britain out of Europe. He may not win.

David Kerr: SNP

ACCORDING to his campaign literature, the SNP's Kerr was born in the
constituency 35 years ago.

According to his campaign literature from the Falkirk West by election nine
years ago, he was born in Cumbernauld.

According to his birth certificate he wasn't born in either of them.

But everybody seems to agree he grew up in Condorrat, near Cumbernauld, before
winning a place at St Andrews University.

His degree in Scottish History and International Relations was enough to get him
into the BBC and in 1999 he became the editor of Newsnight Scotland before
packing it in to stand in Falkirk after Dennis Canavan quit Westminster.

BBC journalists are not supposed to have any political affiliation, but that
didn't stop Kerr returning to the Beeb and he's been seen on Reporting Scotland
since 2007.

The SNP have a mountain to climb in Glasgow North East and, with less than a
week to go, it doesn't look like he is going to make it to the summit.

Unlike Glasgow East last year, Alex Salmond has not been predicting "an
earthquake" at the polls.

In Glasgow East, the SNP won by reaching out to "the folk with nice gardens".

There are not so many nice gardens this time.

Mikey Hughes: Independent

MICHAEL HUGHES launched his campaign by calling Scottish newsrooms and
announcing: "Hi, it's Mikey here!"

He was surprised when everyone said: "Who?"

Apparently coming second on Big Brother is not the guaranteed passport to
worldwide recognition you might think. Mikey, 35, is a producer on Insight
Radio, which aims at blind and partially-sighted listeners.

According to the station's website, his favourite day is: "A long lie, snuggling
up with my kitten, listening to music and stuffing my face." Sounds like ideal
Westminster material.

Ruth Davidson: Conservatives

MP wannabe Ruth isn't your typical Tory candidate.

She's openly gay and proud, served in the TA, and does kickboxing in her spare
time.

And campaigning on the mean streets of one of Scotland's most deprived and
drugaddled constituencies holds no fear for brave Ruth after she broke her BACK
in 2004.

The 30-year-old feared she'd never walk again after crunching her spine jumping
through a window on a TA training exercise in 2004.

All-action Ruth smiled: "Some folk joke that I must be the bravest woman in
Scotland going round Springburn asking folk to vote Tory.

"But that's nothing compared to worrying about whether you'll ever walk again."

The former Sunday schoolteacher lives with her partner in Partick, Glasgow.

She believes the fact an openly gay woman candidate has been chosen to stand in
such a high-profile by-election shows how much the Tories have changed under
David Cameron.

She said: "I don't believe sexuality is an issue now.

"In terms of the Conservative Party, we saw in July of this year David Cameron
standing up in front of Stonewall and saying, 'Look, we apologise for Section
28. We got it wrong'.

"It was an unequivocal apology on the subject.

"In terms of coming out I had my first female partner about four or five years
ago. I was open about it at the time and I'm open about it now.

"But I don't tend to talk about it because it's not the most interesting part of
my life, you know? "Some people are gay and that's it."

She added: "I haven't had any bother on the doorsteps during the campaign.
People are at least hearing me out.

"I haven't been bitten by any dogs or stoned or anything. I came across a
'Beware of the guinea pig' sign, which was funny, but I escaped unscathed."

John Smeaton: Jury Team

SMEATO'S a popular columnist with The Scottish Sun, decorated hero of the war
against terror, national treasure and all-round good guy.

He could have chosen to stand as an Independent but, for some reason, he decided
to go as a candidate for The Jury Team.

They emerged at the European elections as a 'clean up politics' movement, run by
former Tory Party chief executive Sir Paul Judge.

Sir Paul might seem like an unlikely clean-up campaigner after his financial
dealings were exposed in a messy divorce row.

His former wife agreed to keep £14million of assets out of their divorce
settlement because Sir Paul said he had to repay the money to a charity which
had lost money in his businesses. In fact he kept almost all the cash.

The judge ruled he had could keep the "undeserved windfall" but added: "I remain
disturbed about the way he used the charity to fund his own enterprises while
simultaneously taking advantage of gift aid."

The Jury Team has a number of official policies. They want referendums to decide
big issues, a link between MPs' pay and civil service pay grades and directly
elected select committees.

Sadly Smeato knew nothing about any of those things when he was confronted by
reporters at the launch of his campaign and he took a pounding.

Since then he's been making himself known in the constituency, painting
playground equipment in Reidvale Adventure Playground.

But his campaign has been hampered by another spate of bad health which has held
him back a bit.

Rest of the outsiders

TOMMY SHERIDAN makes this by-election unique. It's the first time in UK
electoral history that two Big Brother contestants have ever stood against each
other.

Tommy was leader of the Scottish Socialist Party when they got half a dozen MSPs
at the Scottish elections of 2003. Tommy, below, is standing under the banner of
his breakaway far-left party, Solidarity. If they don't manage to beat the BNP,
the party may be over.

KEVIN McVEY is with the Scottish Socialists - the ones who didn't walk off with
Sheridan.

Brought up in Ruchazie, he's been a civil service trade union rep for 20 years.
He'll be happy just to beat Tommy Sheridan. The farleft vote is split again
thanks to LOUISE McDAID, below, of the Socialist Labour Party, which was set up
by Arthur Scargill in the 90s.

She is chair of the Farepak Victims' Committee, campaigning to get back cash
from the collapsed Christmas club and Socialist Labour put her in first place on
their list of candidates for the Euro Elections.

DR COLIN CAMPBELL has set up his own party, The Individual's Labour and Tory
Movement aimed at the non-voting majority in Glasgow North East.

DAVID DOHERTY is the Scottish Green candidate. They got 80,000 votes at the Euro
elections.

If they all moved to Springburn, the Greens could win this seat.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOMING IN ... local hero Bain on the trail with Alistair Darling
PACK A PUNCH ... Ruth is the Tory hope
ONE FOR THE JURY ... Smeato hopes for by-election success
HOPEFULS ... Kevin McVey, Colin Campbell and David Doherty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Poorly executed;
last night's tv

BYLINE: Andrew Billen

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 908 words


The Execution of Gary Glitter

Channel 4 **

Collision ITV1 ****

Miranda BBC Two ***

Although capital punishment was not finally abolished in this country until
1969, five years after the last hanging, the debate over it was still current
during the Seventies. I remember one newspaper columnist of the era asking us to
imagine the bleakness of execution day: the chill in the air, the drizzle from
the grey winter sky, the crisp packet tossed poignantly in the wind... But, of
course, it could just as easily happen on a lovely spring day.

And this is much more how the writerdirector Rob Coldstream imagined The
Execution of GaryGlitter. His fantasy docudrama was set in an alternative
Britain which, after a public outcry over the Soham infanticides, had brought
back hanging for murders and the rapes of children under 12. Extrapolating
wildly from a contribution by the talking head Vic Gatrell, author of TheHanging
Tree: Execution and the English People 1770-1868, the programme imagined a
carnival atmosphere outside Pentonville prison, with supporters and protesters
clashing and T-shirts for sale. At the top of the charts (to Glitter's fury),
the glam rocker's greatest hits had been supplanted by a remix of the pitiful
"I'm not a monster" speech he gave from the dock. At every turn, Coldstream, in
other words, imagined a crueller and more vicious Britain than we actually have.

It is still cruel and vicious enough, however, if Channel 4, after the
bafflement that greeted Death of a President, its wishfulfilment drama about the
assassination of GeorgeW. Bush, can think it either entertaining or informative
to dramatise the hanging of a living person. So much of the programme was so
improbable, it was tempting not to getworked up about it. The mix of real
experts such as Ann Widdecombe andGary Bushell (I hope they were handsomely
rewarded) with actors playing the death-row chaplain, the hangman, the "mother
of a victim" and others, was jarring. The legal niceties were finessed over: the
European Court of Human Rights is, apparently, UKIP should note, just "a piece
of paper". Glitter's defence solicitorwas also his barrister and looked about as
sincere as PiersMorgan.

And yet we did care because at the centre of the carnival was a brilliant,
Bafta-worthy performance by Hilton McRae as Glitter. With a pigtail shooting off
the back of his bald head and a superior sort of smile playing about his
lips,McRae caught the bankruptcy of a man who still considered himself the star
of his own show. His final breakdown in jail was hideous to watch, although not
as hideous as the execution itself. From the bagging of his still protesting
head to the sudden opening of the trap door beneath, it leftme physically
nauseated.

If The Execution of Gary Glitter was a satire on public hysteria over
paedophilia, ChrisMorris's Brass Eye special did it better eight years ago. If
it was supposed to be a discussion of the morality of the death penalty, a
revival of the old Granada Hypotheticals format might have been theway to go. If
it was intended as anti-capital punishment propaganda, the ends did not justify
the degrading means. Shame on Four.

"It's a mess," said DI John Tolin, played by the always engaging
DouglasHenshall, at the end of the first episode of Collision, the drama that, à
la Criminal Justice, ITV1 is bullying us into watching the channel at 9pm every
night this week. But Collision, under the creator AnthonyHorowitz and his
co-writer Michael A.Walker, is anything but amess.A pile-up on the A12 involving
eight vehicles including a police car has resulted in two fatalities and six
others injured.Not only does that leave Tolin with eight lines of inquiry, but
the writers with eight pre-crash plotlines to convey. The efficiency with which
they, sometimes teasingly, began to do sowas commendable.

The collision of narratives at the point of an accident is not new, of course.
The slightly crass Oscar-winner Crash did it. Nor, even in Essex, would one
reckon on a single accident involving quite so many crims: a dodgy white-van
man, a secretary indulging in a little industrial espionage, a quiet piano
teacher who may be a paedophile, an ironmonger apparently taking his
valetudinarian mother-in-law to her death? But they are well-played and we want
to know more about them all. This serial lacks Criminal Justice's moral gravity
- but, actually, who cares?

On her new sitcom Miranda, Miranda Hart (below) has set herself the difficult
job of making an irritating and socially awkward character watchable. She worked
hard last night by sub-vocalising her thoughts, talking to camera, showing us
fantasy sequences and doing more pratfalls than Lucille Ball. She's funny. Yet a
series based on a young woman's ugliness worriesme and so does one predicated on
the idea that she must marry. I suppose it is progress that the tall, goofyHart
gets to star at all. In the good old, bad old days, she would be writing for her
attractive co-star Sally Phillips. But she, oddly, is currently a radio star.
andrew.billen@thetimes.co.uk

(AD)AudioDescription

(SL) In-vision signing

(HD)HighDefinition (r) repeat

VIDEOPlus+andVIDEOPlus+ codes Thenumbers after eachprogramme are forVIDEOPlus+
programming. Just enter the VideoPlus+ number(s) for the relevantprogramme(s)
into yourvideo recorder for easy taping. Formoredetails visit
www.gemstar-videoplus.co.uk VIDEOPlus+®isa registered trademarkofGemstar
DevelopmentCorporation.©2007

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories likely to win but majority may be minor

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 713 words


Perhaps it may not be so easy after all for David Cameron to win an overall
Commons majority. The latest Populus poll for The Times, undertaken over the
weekend, underlines the obstacles. Both main parties are down a point. The
Tories are, at 39 per cent, at the lower end of their recent range, and Labour,
on 29 per cent, at the upper end of theirs.

But the warning signs are clear. According to the UK Polling Report's ready
reckoner, which assumes a uniform switch of votes between the parties, these
figures would give the Tories a majority of only two.

No wonder that the number expecting a Tory overall majority has slipped from 57
to 50 per cent in the past month, the lowest level since the question was first
asked in April. By contrast, the number expecting a hung Parliament with no
overall majority has risen from 17 to 26 per cent. However, 65 per cent still
expect the Tories to be the largest party, against 27 per cent for Labour.

Likelihood to vote has fallen among the Tories, possibly as part of a backlash
against mainstream parties after last week's stories about MPs' expenses. By
more than a two to one margin (68 to 30 per cent), voters do not believe that,
in light of the clampdown on expenses, MPs should have their pay increased to
recruit "good people" and keep existing ones in the Commons.

The Tories have suffered slightly from last week's shift by Mr Cameron on Europe
after the final ratification of the Lisbon treaty. Support for other parties has
risen by two points to 14 per cent, with the UK Independence Party up from 2.3
to 4.3 per cent. Apart from the two months around June's Euro elections, this is
the highest level since 2005.

The numbers are very small, but aggregate data over several months suggests that
support is highest among working class groups and older people. Forty-eight per
cent back the Cameron line that "it would be pointless to have a referendum on
Europe unless specific further changes in Britain's relations with the EU were
being proposed", against 46 per cent believing there "should be a referendum
early in the next Parliament on the general issue of Britain's relations with
the EU". However, Tory voters disagree with their leader's line, with 59 per
cent backing an early referendum against 37 per cent calling it pointless.

The Tories remain very well placed to oust Labour next spring, but a minority
Cameron administration is a distinct possibility.

Room for optimism

Sterling $1.6844

The highest level since early August, after G20 finance ministers agreed over
the weekend to keep stimulus measures in place. It was also aided by the Bank of
England's decision last Thursday to print an additional £25 billion, rather than
the £50 billion many economists had expected, and by the declining dollar Retail
sales

+3.8%

Last month's rise in retail sales was driven in part by improvements in the
housing market, but Stephen Robertson, director-general of the British Retail
Consortium, admitted that the figures were flattered by comparison to a dreadful
period last year

Gold $1,100

A new high as the steady decline of the dollar has prompted investors to look
for new places to put their money. The flight to gold looks set to continue
after G20 ministers expressed concerns over the weekend that the dollar could
still be overvalued

Oil $79.78

Benchmark crude for December delivery rose 3 per cent, or $2.35, to $79.78 a
barrel yesterday after a Tropical storm hit the Gulf of Mexico. Along with other
commodities, oil was also boosted by the declining dollar

Voting intentions

Labour 29%, down 1 29%

Labour suffered no significant change despite a difficult month that saw Europe
and uncertainties over the future of the war in Afghanistan dominating the
headlines

Others 14%, up 2 14%

UKIP saw its numbers increase from 2 to 4 per cent, amid suggestions that it was
gaining support from voters disaffected with the main parties' stances on Europe

Conservatives 39%, down 1 39%

The Tories failed to progress amid fears that the row over the Lisbon treaty and
the EU referendum had reopened old splits in the Conservative Party over Europe

Lib Dems 18%, no change 18%

There was a 9 percentage point rise in the the number of people who thought
there could be a hung Parliament, which could hand the Lib Dems the balance of
power

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

Comment & Debate: Cameron's Eurosceptic wing will damage his government: Tories
will suffer for their referendum divisions. But because of Labour's lack of
confidence this will be after the election

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1096 words


So Europe is back. Like a zombie flesh-eater in another movie remake, issues of
national sovereignty and the popular will are marching across the political
landscape, leaving marks on the major parties. The Conservative U-turn on a
referendum is a big moment; but the possible appointment of David Miliband as
the new foreign minister for the EU would also shake panicky Labour. Both
parties seem weakened by events.

Let's take the Tories first. David Cameron's team are apparently congratulating
themselves that the U-turn has not caused the cataclysmic political fallout they
feared. This good cheer may be premature. It is true that at Westminster, and
among the relevant media commentators, reaction has been muted. There is such
hostility to Labour on the right of politics that pundits don't want to rock the
boat until after the election, while most people understand that Cameron would
find it hard to hold a referendum once the treaty was signed.

Yet this is only round one. What about the rising frustration among hardcore
Eurosceptics around the country? Frontbench defections and angry private
protests are just the start. Cameron's "cast iron guarantee" looked like one and
sounded like one to millions of voters. Many natural Tories may defect to Ukip
as a result. And inside the Conservative family, Cameron has stored up serious
trouble for the years ahead.

The vague promises to do - er, something or other - to repatriate powers after
the election look like hot air. On social policy, human rights and the rebate,
the Tories would depend on supportive unanimity among continental ministers to
reopen the treaty, ministers who won't give them the time of day.

Tory greybeards say that in the end the other EU leaders will swallow their
anger about Cameron's Eurosceptic rhetoric and his new rightwing allies. They
need Britain in Europe too much. A freshly elected, still fresh-faced British
Conservative prime minister cannot be brushed aside. Some sort of deal will be
done; in Europe it always is.

That's true, but in this case the deal will give the Conservatives almost
nothing of substance. And they know it. There will be brave words, perhaps a
staged row, but as for reopening the big stuff, it isn't going to happen. Normal
service will be resumed, but in the post-Lisbon and distinctly non-sceptic
direction. Cameron will promise a referendum - but on some unknown treaty in the
far distant future that nobody else is contemplating. It is simply meaningless.

It won't take long for the pfennig to drop. Cameron and his team have been
sniped at from the right for being too similar to Blair: post-ideological
opportunists whose Britain would be very similar to today's. But up to now
Europe has been the great exception, the dividing line, the source of clear blue
water. No longer. After all the huffing and puffing about loss of sovereignty
and betrayal, will the right really just shrug?

Not a chance. And they'll get a chance too, because the proposed new sovereignty
bill, while being as worthless as Cameron's someday, one-day referendum promise,
will ensure a vigorous and amendable legislative tussle on the floor of the
Commons. Since we have no idea what that Commons will look like after the
election, we can't predict anything - except that the Eurosceptics will be
sitting there in greater numbers than ever before and will go to town. Unless
Cameron's whips are incredibly effective, we could be looking at a rerun of the
more spectacular moments of the Major years.

I suggest that the effect of the U-turn will be twofold. It will weaken the Tory
performance at the general election because some of their voters will switch to
Ukip. And if the Tories are elected, it will weaken Cameron's government.

Ordinarily, this would be good news for Labour. After all, it has pushed the
treaty through without a referendum, embarrassed Cameron and gained an
opportunity for a political counterattack.

The trouble is that Labour U-turned over a referendum first, so it hardly has
the moral high ground. And the government is so demoralised it hardly seems to
have the gumption to fight. It is significant that Labour was unable to exploit
the Tory difficulty. That's in part because ministers are obsessed with whether
or not Tony Blair or David Miliband will go to Brussels.

As of now, Miliband seems the likelier of the two to succeed. He may genuinely
not want the job of high representative for foreign affairs, and be determined
to refuse it. One colleague points out that it doesn't have much decision-making
power and involves frantic amounts of overseas travel, effectively as messenger
boy for the heads of state: hardly an attractive job description for a man with
a young family. On the other hand, Miliband will know that the first holder of a
big new job has the chance to shape it; and he will reflect that going to
Brussels did Peter Mandelson no harm.

For Labour at home, the departure of Miliband would be a big moment. He is, in
the words of one cabinet minister, "the last prepackaged, ready-made prime
ministerial candidate left". If he goes, the argument runs, any residual hope of
ousting Brown goes too. He would be deserting a sinking ship. That hardly makes
Captain Brown look good, but it would leave him in charge of the bridge.

Some Labour people may think I'm sounding too gloomy, but those who have been
privy to recent private polling are a lot more than gloomy. This suggests that
Labour could return to the Commons with just 120 MPs or thereabouts, taking the
party back to 1930s territory. As ministers look for jobs to keep themselves
going after politics, a Miliband move to Europe looks sensible.

So we are left with a profoundly paradoxical political landscape. A deeply
unpopular government is running out of authority and beginning almost to wish
for death. Yet the opposition isn't particularly popular and on many of the big
issues, from climate change to Afghanistan, the banking system to Europe, it
does not offer real change. Granted, the Tories are far more aggressive about
public spending cuts, but since we don't know what Labour would actually do in a
few years' time, even that is cloudy.

A more confident government would be able to exploit all this. Labour has a
story to tell, but it is almost voiceless. So Cameron and his colleagues
bestride the political stage, fawned on by the establishment, preparing for
power and easily surviving the most embarrassing policy U-turn so far. Well,
they will have a miserable time when they get there - the pity is, so will
millions of others.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 8, 2009 Sunday

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE EU EMPIRE...

LENGTH: 951 words


WILLIAM REES-MOGG

The Lisbon Treaty was finally brought to ratification last week. The
Conservatives decided not to call a referendum, which could not have blocked the
treaty now it has been accepted by the Czech Republic. Illogically perhaps,
Euro-sceptics ought to welcome the treaty, if only for its awfulness.

The treaty with its imperial ambition, its new status in law, its president, its
bullying of Ireland and cheating of Britain, has all the characteristics of the
penultimate stage of empire.

Just as a visitor to the Coronation Durbar in Delhi in 1911 might have known at
a glance that the British Empire in India was on its last legs, so a cursory
reading of the gobbledegook of the Lisbon text would tell one that the European
empire was close to failure.

There have been empires before. Many people still alive have seen them fail. The
Soviet Empire broke up as recently as 1989. The 19th Century was an age of
empire-building and empire builders, the age of men such as Cecil Rhodes and
Otto von Bismarck, but the 20th Century was one in which empires collapsed.

According to my count, there were no fewer than 13 empires that broke up in the
course of the last century, against two empires that were created in that period
and still survive.

The new empires are the American and the Franco-German empire of the European
Union, of which Britain is an increasingly reluctant province.

The 13 empires that disappeared in the 20th Century included one Russian, one
Soviet, two German, one British - but that was the biggest of them all - one
French, one Japanese, one Ottoman, one Austro-Hungarian, one Spanish, one Boer,
one Italian and one Portuguese. They all fell for much the same reasons; they
rotted from within.

The great historian, Edward Gibbon, thought the decline and fall of the Roman
Empire was caused by the rise of Christianity; the decline and fall of the EU is
more likely to be caused by the loss of any core faith. The culture of Europe
had its root in Christianity.

Now Italian schoolgirls are forbidden by Italian judges to have a crucifix on
their classroom wall in case the death of Jesus is offensive to some visiting
Islamists - though even a fundamentalist imam, supposing he were to visit a
local school in Italy, would hardly find it objectionable if it displayed
symbols of Christianity.

The EU has largely lost its religion and has no general philosophy. Europe is
ashamed of its Christianity, but Europe has not become liberal and democratic.
The enforced ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, without public consent, could
not have happened in America without the approval of the Supreme Court.

From the British point of view, sovereign powers have been transferred to
European bureaucrats without our own people being consulted. A promise has been
broken by the present Labour Government. We have a right to be angry, indeed we
have a duty to be angry, though anger is not enough.

The loss of a core belief inevitably weakens the coherence of a culture. The
decline of empire is always associated with the alienation of the people from
the elite. The ratification of the treaty was manipulated by a small group of
European leaders: Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, Peter Mandelson, Nicolas Sarkozy and
Angela Merkel.

Blair and Brown were most recently elected in 2005, after promising a
referendum. The British have never voted for President Sarkozy or Chancellor
Merkel, who share responsibility for tricking us out of the referendum that
Blair and Brown promised. This has done permanent damage. We do not trust the EU
not to cheat.

The alienation of the public from the European elite is not confined to Britain.
The Constitutional Treaty, which became the Lisbon Treaty, was rejected by the
Dutch and French referendums. Even in the most European countries, Brussels
bureaucrats are seen as distant and greedy.

The decline of empire always has cultural reasons yet, as Karl Marx argued,
cultural change is a reflection of underlying economic changes. In recent years
there has been a wind of change in the world economy, the relative decline of
the West and the rise of Asian economies, particularly China.

America, however, enjoys a critical advantage over Europe. American business is
more adaptable and resilient than European. One of the greatest weaknesses of
the European economy is the so-called acquis communautaire, the principle that
any power the EU gets shall be held permanently. The Lisbon Treaty has become
the latest addition to the acquis communautaire.

Adaptability is the condition of the survival of any living organism. The EU has
adopted the ratchet principle in which it is virtually impossible to reverse the
centralisation of power. This rigidity belongs to the European economy of the
Fifties. As members of the EU, we are trapped in its obsolete system of
government.

Euro-sceptics who think the EU is likely to join the history of failed empires,
unless it changes to a modern system of government, have no sympathy for Brown.
Indeed, they feel Brown has betrayed them. Yet they are not happy with the
Conservative response - that they would fight to regain control over certain
laws - either. The constitutional ratchet of the EU still makes centralisation a
one-way operation.

Reasonable Euro-sceptics in Britain recognise that nothing effective can be done
except by a government. There is no point in Euro-sceptics voting for the UK
Independence Party (UKIP) and letting in Labour or Lib Dem candidates. UKIP
cannot change things; the Tories could if they win the next General Election.

Most Euro-sceptics see the logic of that, but they might have been much happier
if they thought David Cameron felt as angry about the Lisbon Treaty as they do
themselves.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                November 8, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Running my castle costs a fortune;
FAME & FORTUNE STUART WHEELER TALKS TO ALEXANDRA GOSS The spread betting tycoon
is spending twice his income to maintain his historic home

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA GOSS

SECTION: MONEY;FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1181 words


STUART WHEELER is best known for founding IG Index, the spread betting firm, in
1974. It was floated in London in 2000 and Wheeler retired as chairman in 2003.

He donated £5m to the Tory election campaign in 2001 but was famously expelled
from the party this year after he gave £100,000 to the UK Independence party
(Ukip).

Adopted at the age of two, he was educated at Eton College and Oxford before
becoming a barrister and later working as a merchant banker.

A keen gambler, Wheeler, 74, played bridge with Lord Lucan two days before his
disappearance in 1974. He also competes on the international poker circuit.

He is married to Tessa Codrington, the photographer, and they have three
daughters - Sarah, 29, Jacquetta, 28, the model, and Charlotte, 24. He divides
his time between Mayfair and Chilham Castle, near Canterbury.

How much money do you have in your wallet?

About £500. I think it's boring to go to the cash machine too often, so I get a
lot of money out at a time. I keep it deep in my pocket and I've never had any
stolen, thankfully.

What credit cards do you use?

My main one is a Mastercard from HSBC Private Bank. I think I get some kind of
travel insurance with it but its main advantage is convenience as I bank with
HSBC.

Are you a saver or a spender?

Even though I watch my money very carefully, I'm spending about twice my income
at present. I have to pay the salaries of the eight or so people that work for
us at Chilham Castle, for example. I have a private pension scheme that was
originally from IG Index but at my age it's no longer a question of putting
money into it.

How much did you earn last year?

Nothing - I live off the interest on the money I made from IG Index. Selling my
stake was the biggest mistake of my life. Even though I made lots of money out
of it, I could have made an enormous amount more. [He sold a 24% stake in 2003
when IG Index was worth £143m, netting him £34m. Had he waited until 2008 when
it was worth £1.4 billion, he could have got about £330m.]

When I donated £5m to the Conservatives in 2001 I was worth £90m - that's
dropped to about £20m now, discounting the value of my properties.

Have you ever been really hard up?

Before I really got going with IG Index, I spent about six months looking for a
job. I lived off whatever money I could make playing bridge.

Do you own a property?

I own two. The first is Chilham Castle, which I bought in 2002. It has 13
bedrooms and I think I've spent more on its upkeep than the £7m it cost to buy.
An estate agent has asked if they can value it and they're very welcome to - not
that we're going to sell.

The second is a flat in Mayfair, which is probably worth more than the castle. I
bought it about five years ago, also for £7m, and it's probably worth £10m or
£12m now. I live in it during the week with my youngest daughter, Charlotte.

What was your first job?

I'm old enough to have done National Service, so my first job was as a recruit
in the Welsh Guards. My first weekly pay packet was 11 shillings.

What is the most lucrative work you have ever done?

Starting, managing and then selling off IG Index. However, I did win £1.75m on a
huge spread bet that the Dow Jones index would drop in the summer of 2001.
Although no sane person could possibly have wanted September 11 to happen, it
happened at an incredibly lucky moment for me. I decided that I'd leave the bet
open until it closed automatically and, by a stroke of luck, it ended at the
precise moment when the Dow Jones hit its lowest point. The money helped me to
buy Chilham.

Are you better off than your parents?

Yes. I was adopted by a wealthy couple and I don't think my [adoptive] father
ever did a stroke of work in his life, apart from fighting in the first world
war. He hunted and shot and fished, and therefore considered himself to be
extremely busy. I recently discovered that my birth mother was a schoolteacher
from Kilmarnock in Scotland but I never met her.

Do you invest in shares?

I haven't done any spread betting for a long time but I've got open accounts
with IG Index and one or two of its competitors that I could use.

Virtually all my money is in shares now but I find it very hard to pick
individual stocks so most of it is in exchange traded funds from iShares, now
owned by Black Rock. [ETFs follow an index, like trackers, but are traded on the
stock exchange like shares]. About half of them simply follow the FTSE 100 index
and the others follow the highest-yielding shares in the FTSE 350, which
provides a reasonable income.

My individual shares are in BP, Shell, Tesco, Glaxo Smith Kline and Vodafone and
I may never change them.

I got those shares about a year ago when the market had come crashing down to
about 4,400. It's just over 5,000 now but I'm fairly nervous because I am so
exposed to stock markets. I think that the markets will right themselves
eventually, although I fear there will be a sharp drop in between. My strategy
is to ride that out until things come right again.

What's better - property or pension?

A pension, probably. Despite various changes Gordon Brown has made to pensions,
they still have very significant tax advantages.

What's been your best investment?

IG Index, without a doubt. What about worst? I invested in some individual
shares fairly recently which did very badly but I'm not going to mention names.
I didn't lose a spectacular amount, though.

Do you manage your own financial affairs?

I have an accountant and a tax adviser. I don't agree with rich people who say
they will leave the UK to escape 50% tax - if you have a fair amount of money
and definitely prefer living in England, it's pretty mad to move away.

Even though I'm spending more than my income, I am going to be affected by 50%
tax and have made sure that I've adjusted things with my wife (who is not
currently earning a great deal) so that we don't find ourselves having to pay
more than we need to.

What's the most extravagant thing you have ever bought?

Both Chilham and the Mayfair flat are very extravagant. I don't want lots of
expensive objects, though - I just like living a comfortable life and being able
to entertain friends.

What aspect of the tax system would you change?

I think the real thing is to make it financially undesirable to live on
benefits.

What are your financial priorities?

To enable my family and me to carry on living the kind of life we lead. Another
is the ability to give to what I think are good causes, such as anti-torture
charities and Ukip.

Do you play the lottery?

No. The odds are appalling and almost any other form of gambling gives you a
better chance. I play poker at a tournament in Las Vegas once a year. You pay
$10,000 (£6,050) to enter. Four or five years ago, I came 33rd out of 800
players, winning about $35,000. I play internet poker but only for very low
stakes.

What's the most important lesson you have learnt about money?

You can't have complete safety however you deal with your money. You have to
accept a bit of risk to make any decent returns and the most obvious way to do
that is to buy shares.

'' YOU HAVE TO ACCEPT A BIT OF RISK TO MAKE DECENT RETURNS

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gambling man: Stuart Wheeler lives off the interest on the stake he
sold in IG Index, a spread betting firm, and plays top-level poker
JUSTIN GRIFFITHS-WILLIAMS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                November 8, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The battle to nail an MEP fraudster;
Four years after Daniel Foggo first exposed UKIP's Tom Wise as an embezzler,
justice has finally caught up with him

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words


Tom Wise, a bon viveur who once boasted of his "cushy job" doing frankly very
little as an MEP for the UK Independence party (UKIP), became, last Thursday,
the first British politician to be convicted of expenses fraud for more than 10
years.

It was a victory for justice, and a victory for me, too. Four years ago I wrote
an exposé accusing Wise of claiming £36,000 a year in expenses to pay for a
researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, while passing on to her only a fraction of that
sum.

The story prompted a European Union inquiry, which was eventually referred to
the British police, as was acknowledged in court last week.

In the intervening years I continued digging, uncovering bank statements and
contracts that proved Wise blew thousands on a car and fine wine, as well as
paying his credit card bills. The resultant stories prompted UKIP to remove the
whip from Wise but not to expel him; he continued to sit in Brussels until
stepping down at the Euro elections in June.

The case will have had ominous overtones for several MPs and peers currently
under investigation by the police over their own expenses, in the same week that
Sir Christopher Kelly announced his crackdown on the widespread profligacy of
our parliamentarians. UKIP's leaders were falling over themselves last week to
condemn Wise. The party's chairman, Paul Nuttall, said: "We believe as a party
it is vital as a matter of public trust that justice is done." But UKIP's
commitment to seeing "justice done" leaves a lot to be desired.

After my first article, the party rallied round Wise, insisting he had done
nothing fundamentally wrong. Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP who went on to become the
party's leader, even breezily told me that Wise had committed a simple, silly
error by making himself a "paying agent" for his own staff, something that was
against the EU rules to prevent fraud.

Back then, party bigwigs, including Farage and the leader at the time, Roger
Knapman, said they could "not state strongly enough that at no time has Mr Wise
attempted to seek personal gain". Furthermore, Knapman said, the party's own
inquiries had satisfied him that Wise's actions had been "honest and honourable
throughout". However, it turned out the party had been aware, even before my
original exposé, that Wise had a bank account with tens of thousands of pounds
in "surplus" funds sloshing around, thanks to an underspend on his expenses. And
several thousand pounds that Farage had promised Jenkins as part-funding for a
Eurosceptic book she was writing had even somehow found its way to her out of
Wise's account.

UKIP must have known that MEPs are not allowed to come into contact with
taxpayers' money that is designated as salaries for their assistants. EU rules
state that assistants nominated by an MEP must be paid directly from Brussels or
else via a third-party agent. The fact that one of its MEPs had in his
possession a "surplus" on his assistant's allowance should have sounded warning
bells. Yet it was an alarm that UKIP chose to ignore.

Six months after my first article, the party was still confident that the whole
matter had gone away. The EU payments office had written that it would take no
further action - it later emerged that the office had passed the matter to
official investigators - since Wise had rushed to pay back £25,000 after the
exposé. UKIP pronounced that Wise was "cleared" and threatened to sue me.

UKIP's internal inquiry had concluded there was no case to answer: the party
claimed it had looked at the paperwork. It couldn't have looked very hard. When
I managed to obtain copies of the relevant documents, Wise's was the most
blatant, open-and-shut case of fraud I have ever come across. On the contract he
submitted, Wise had simply put his own bank account number next to Jenkins's
name, so that the EU payments office would think it was paying her directly.

Wise had told Jenkins he would pay her £500 a month, plus extra for any ad hoc
work done. She later told the police that she had signed the forms he sent her
even though they were blank. He had then filled in the £36,000 annual rate that
he claimed in her name and submitted it. Much of it he ended up spending on
himself.

Jenkins, 62, was initially charged, but when Wise admitted his guilt last week
she was acquitted of all charges. In court, the bearded and bespectacled Wise
cut a pathetic figure for a man once elected in the name of a party committed to
ending the EU "gravy train", though his arrogance remained intact.

It was a quality that had first struck me four years ago when he had attempted
to bluster his way through my questions about his employment of Jenkins. Later,
when he had been supposedly "exonerated" by the EU payments office, he had
pompously said that my "attack on his character" had not deterred him from his
important work. Wise even took legal advice on how to sue a political
commentator who wrote blogs on the story, paying for it - although he did not
proceed - with taxpayers' money from the same fund he was accused of abusing.

Arrogance is a quality that is not in short supply within UKIP; nor is an
ability to dissemble and prevaricate. As Wise awaits a possible jail term at his
sentencing this week, who knows which politician and which party will enter the
dock next.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wise cheated over his assistant's allowance, spending thousands on the
good life. Inset, one of Foggo's scoops
NOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                November 8, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP MEPs' expenses probed;
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 83 words


EU anti-fraud investigators are conducting an inquiry into the United Kingdom
Independence party over its MEPs' use of expense allowances. Olaf, the body that
polices MEPs, has sent officers to the UK, who were last week interviewing
potential witnesses. The development comes in the same week that Tom Wise, a
former UKIP MEP, was convicted of embezzling taxpayers' money intended as his
assistant's salary while he was working for the party.

The battle to nail an MEP fraudster, News Review, page 8

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                November 8, 2009

Lisbon U-turn will cost votes, say Tories

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE, LAURA DONNELLY and DAVID HARRISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 452  words


DAVID CAMERON has been warned by grassroots activists that he risks losing votes
to the UK Independence Party (Ukip) at the election because of his about-turn on
the Lisbon Treaty.

A survey of party members by The Sunday Telegraph yesterday found widespread
unhappiness over the Tory leader's decision to ditch his promise to hold a
referendum on the controversial treaty on the grounds that it will be law within
weeks.

Constituency officials said many members were "really angry'' and felt "let
down'' by Mr Cameron, who said last week that such a vote would be "a waste of
time and money''. Instead, Mr Cameron promised to prohibit any further transfer
of power to the European Union without a referendum, and to negotiate to bring
certain powers back to Britain.

Stuart Wheeler and Lord Kalms, former party donors who now back Ukip, also
predicted that Mr Cameron would lose support.

Lord Kalms, a former party treasurer who had the whip withdrawn earlier this
year after voicing support for Ukip, gave warning that a large number of Tories
could vote for the anti-European party at the next election. He said: "That is
the dilemma and I hope he realises it. All we really want, us Eurosceptics, is
to be assured. We know he has boxed himself in. But it's no good being vague and
generalising.''

Mr Wheeler, who was once the Tories' biggest donor, said: "Ukip cost the
Conservative Party 20 or 30 seats in the last general election. Because people
feel so strongly about this subject now they are likely to cost them more than
that next time. David Cameron should do the mathematics.''

In a survey of constituency officials, many voiced dismay about Mr Cameron's
policy. Dorothy Hutton, from South Tees Conservative Association, said: "We
don't think he should have made a

U-turn, we think he should have stuck at it. Quite a lot of people are really
angry. We thought they were making progress on this.''

Graham Hall, of Sunderland North, said: "Even if having a referendum would not
make much difference it would have shown that we were prepared to stick by our
word and we would have been able to gauge people's opinions about Europe in
general.

"Ukip is picking up a lot of votes because people feel neither of the major
parties is prepared to listen to them on Europe.''

Eurosceptic MPs gave warning that they would keep up the pressure. Douglas
Carswell, a member of the Better Off Out campaign, said: "I would still like
there to be a referendum. I support David Cameron, but on this issue I have a
different opinion from him.''

Mr Wheeler, who said there would be more defections to Ukip, accused Mr Cameron
of misleading people by promising a referendum. "I won't say he lied but he got
very close to it.''

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 941 words


BRING BACK SIR HUMPHREY! THIS MAN'S A TOTAL DRIP

CABINET Secretaries were once ineffably assured figures at the apex of public
life. Think of Sir Humphrey Appleby in TV's Yes, Prime Minister.

Alas, the current Cabinet Secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, is a soppingly wet
blanket, prone to such self- doubt that he allows himself to be 'mentored' by
ethnic minorities.

Sir Gus, who has the air of a keep-fit fanatic, appeared before MPs the other
day. He disclosed that he subjects himself to '360-degree reviews' by Gill
Rider, the Cabinet Office's 'head of human resources' (i.e. personnel wallah).
She then 'goes around and discusses with all the permanent secretaries, on a
confidential basis, their views about me and then feeds back to me what they
think'.

So what do they say? Sir Gus unhappily confessed that they think 'there are
occasions when I am too strategic and too much of an economist'. The beasts! Oh
well. Could be worse. They could say he was a total drip.

In addition to this modern management stuff, Cabinet Secretary O'Donnell allows
himself to be shadowed at work by 'people from minority groups' so that they,
too, can give him 'feedback'. 'One of my strengths,' said Sir Gus with pride,
'is that I am open to challenge, apparently.' Working for Gordon Brown, I'd say
he receives plenty of 'challenge'.

Some may think it marvellous that our top civil servant is so approachable. But
this is a man who, after the PM, probably sees more state secrets than anyone.
This is a man who has to withstand intense politicking, a man whose hours are
incredibly precious. Do we really want him spending time on such matters?

And who checks the security background of these minority mentors who scuttle
after him through Whitehall's most sensitive sanctums?

DAME Suzi Leather, the Blairite quango queen who runs the Charity Commission, is
one slick operator. Consider this.

She is up soon in front of the Commons Public Administration Committee. It may
well ask about accusations that she has politicised her Commission.

The whole point of select committees is that they are public.

Scrutiny of the powerful occurs in the open. So why has Dame Suzi's 'public
affairs manager', one Lindsay Owen, written to the committee seeking a private,
prematch briefing with Suzichops? As it happens, MPs are distinctly unchuffed by
her offer to have 'a meeting in advance of the hearing'. If Comrade Suzi has
anything to say, let it be on the record.

UNLESS I am going completely deaf, yesterday's BBC radio news just after 7am
announced: 'Gordon Brown will make another robust defence of government policy
on Afghanistan.' Three questions: How do they know it is going to be 'robust' if
the PM had not yet delivered his speech? When was his last 'robust' defence?
Would that BBC report not have been more impartial without its adjective?

LORD, WHAT A COINCIDENCE

LORD DESAI, apart from having an electrocuted-professor hairdo, is an LSE
academic and one of Labour's more free-spirited parliamentarians. He has just
written a slightly mad political novel called Dead On Time, sloppily published
by Beautiful Books.

It has its moments, though. The tale features a thicko deputy PM and a Scots
Chancellor with a harddrinking spin doctor.

There is also a modernising, pukka, vain Labour PM who has an open marriage. He
cannot keep his hands off his Downing Street aides. How wise of Lord Desai to
stress that 'all characters and events are fictional'.

WAS IT A BITTER NIGHT FOR NIGEL?

REPORTERS heading for David Cameron's European policy speech on Tuesday spotted
UKIP leader Nigel Farage hovering outside a pub. Some 40 minutes later, heading
back to their offices, Farage was outside a second alehouse. Thirsty chap.
Perhaps he felt he had something to celebrate.

HUMANIST peers (including part-time robot Lord Birt) ganged up on Radio 4,
bossily demanding that atheists should present the religious Thought For The Day
slot. They boasted about the power of reason. Up stood Lord Kilclooney, an
Ulster Protestant. They prevented him from speaking. Says it all, really.

ONLY two weeks until the CBI Conference, biggest event in the business year.
What a pity to hear that TV's Lord Sugarlump, the Government's 'Enterprise Tsar'
-- a job for which he received a peerage -- does not yet seem to be on the guest
list.

GRAVY TRAIN ROLLS ON

THE new Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority is called IPSA. Not to be
confused with the International Professional Security Association (trade body
for nightclub bouncers).

MPs were angry this week told by Squeaker Bercow that the chairman of IPSA will
be paid up to 6100,000 a year. Just as well Bercow did not mention that IPSA's
interim chief executive, Andrew McDonald, is on even bigger beans -- up to
6115,000. The official line is that 'this was benchmarked against similar public
sector roles and the salary compares favourably'.

It certainly compares favourably to the c.665,000 our MPs are paid -- if, by
'favourably', you mean 'generously'.

BORIS'S TOWERING AMBITION

WHY is London Mayor Boris Johnson so infatuated with skyscrapers? Such dalliance
with Stalinist-style monstrosities suggests that Boris is not a real Tory but is
instead some drifting weed, overimpressed by the architectural world. Why?

Here, perhaps, is a clue. Deep in the bowels of City Hall there toils,
undisturbed, a relic of the Ken Livingstoneyears. His name is Giles Dolphin and
he is 'head of planning decisions'. He is apparently a great admirer of
anti-royalist swank Lord (Richard) Rogers.

'Dolphin was very much part of Ken's set-up and yet has somehow survived,' says
a source. 'But Boris is so disorganised he may not even realise he is there.'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday

TORY FAITHFUL 'SPITTING BLOOD OVER EUROPE' HAGUE WARNED

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 585 words


WILLIAM Hague was mauled by Conservative candidates yesterday over David
Cameron's U-turn on Europe.

Would-be MPs told the Shadow Foreign Secretary that grassroots Tories are
'spitting blood and feathers' over their leader's decision to ditch his pledge
of a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

Despite claims from Tory high command that the party accepts his proposals, six
of the seven

prospective parliamentary candidates who quizzed Mr Hague expressed grave
reservations.

One warned that supporters were turning to the UK Independence Party and another
said Europe was 'unpicking the good work' Mr Cameron has managed in detoxifying
the Tory brand for floating voters.

They spoke out during a telephone conference call to discuss ways of combating
voter anger at the U-turn. Earlier this week Mr Cameron ditched his 'cast iron'
pledge to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty after the Czech Republic became
the last EU country to ratify it.

Mr Hague told the candidates that Mr Cameron's compromise proposal, to change
the law so no further powers could be lost to the EU without a referendum had
produced 'hugely positive' reactions.

The Tory leader also plans to pass a Sovereignty Bill to make explicit that
ultimate authority remains with the Westminster Parliament. He says he will claw
back powers from Brussels over social and employment legislation.

But the candidates, the eyes and ears of Tory high command at the electoral
coalface, made clear that voters are not impressed.

Lynda Donaldson, prospective parliamentary candidate for Rother Valley, South
Yorkshire, said she had been out canvassing since Mr Cameron's announcement 'and
for the first time I did get a lot of people saying that if we didn't have a
referendum they would definitely be voting for Ukip.'

Debi Jones, candidate for Sefton Central on Merseyside, said she was being
confronted by voters who want the Tories to hold a referendum on whether Britain
should stay in the EU at all.

She added: 'The party faithful, the old battalions, are all spitting blood and
feathers.'

Chris Philp, who is standing in Hampstead and Kilburn, said he had had 'quite a
lot of flak' over Mr Cameron's decision to ally with more hardline conservatives
in Eastern Europe.

He warned that 'people who have been quite impressed by David's brand of
compassionate conservatism' were dismayed. He added: 'To them it sends a signal.
It unpicks the work that David has done in the last three or four years.'

John Bell, the candidate for Clwyd South in North Wales, questioned whether Mr
Cameron would be able to grab back powers from Brussels.

The Tory leader has said he might hold a referendum if he is unable to secure
concessions.

But Mr Bell said: 'Wouldn't we be in exactly the same situation?'. He said
Brussels officials would turn around and say: 'Yes, you've had your referendum
and yes, we've had your result. But so what?'

Mr Hague spelled out the party's positions and suggested angles of attack the
prospective MPs could take against their opponents.

But Mark Reckless, an ally of Tory MEP Daniel Hannan, who stood down from the
frontbench in Brussels in protest at the policy change, hit out at Mr Hague's
handling of the affair. He said Mr Cameron's plans offered 'three proposals to
entrench the status quo' in Brussels rather than 'reverse the process'.

He asked Mr Hague: 'Do you understand the sense of disappointment with regard to
you personally?'

But Mr Hague stressed that voters are more interested in the economy and schools
than in Europe as an issue.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP should back Lord Pearson

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 81  words


TORY high command is braced for a new rush of support for UKIP. If the anti-EU
party's members vote for Lord Pearson of Rannoch as their new leader later this
month a UKIP surge is indeed on the cards. He is promoting a tranche of
commonsense policies including new grammar schools, zero tolerance of sharia
law, very tough immigration controls and referenda to decide most other issues.
He is the worst nightmare of the political class and that alone is sufficient
grounds to wish him well.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday

International: guardian.co.uk/commentisfree

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 43 words


Foie gras is too delicious to ban, writes Agnes Poirier - so Roger Moore can get
stuffed

Jim Wolfreys: Sarkozy's tough talk on immigration only panders to prejudice
against the poor

Ukip has none of the inhibitions that Cameron is stuck with, writes Nigel Farage

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday

Expel Tory rebels on Europe or risk election defeat,;
Cameron is told

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 514  words


DAVID CAMERON was urged last night to expel two rebel MEPs who have resigned as
party spokesmen over a change to Conservative policy on Europe.

He was warned that not standing up to the party's Euro-sceptic wing could cost
the Conservatives the general election.

Roger Helmer and Daniel Hannan stood down from their Brussels positions in
protest at Mr Cameron's decision not to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.
Mr Helmer said he could "neither justify nor support'' the plans set out by Mr
Cameron.

Edward McMillan-Scott, a former Conservative leader in Europe, called for the
two MEPs to be formally expelled from the party. Mr McMillan-Scott had the Tory
whip withdrawn earlier this year after he objected to Mr Cameron's decision to
switch to a new grouping in the European Parliament.

"David Cameron is right to stand firm against those in the Conservative Party
who want Britain to withdraw from the European Union. He must act swiftly to
restore order and ensure that he remains in control of his new European
agenda,'' said Mr McMillan-Scott. "The MEPs should be expelled for their serial
disloyalty and provocative behaviour. If they are not expelled - as I was for no
stated reason - Cameron may be accused of double standards.''

He added: "The Ukip-tendency within the Conservative Party could prevent the
Tory victory at the general election which I look forward to.''

Mr Cameron urged his MPs and supporters to allow him to concentrate on mending
the economy, rather than committing to a "phoney referendum''. He has said he
would still try to return some powers ceded to Europe to Britain.

His new policy, which Mr Cameron said was "settled'' for the next parliament,
came under attack yesterday from his MEPs and party grandees.

Mr Helmer, who resigned as Tory employment spokesman in Brussels, said: "What we
have is an essentially cosmetic policy. We are installing a largely ineffective
burglar alarm when the family silver has already been stolen. But the British
people don't want vague promises. They want the family silver back in good
order.''

Mr Hannan stood down as Tory legal affairs spokesman in Europe. In his Telegraph
blog, he said he could see the Tory leader's point of view, but he had decided
to return to the back benches to build a movement that would "push for
referendums, citizens' initiatives and the rest of the paraphernalia of direct
democracy''.

Lord Tebbit, the former Tory cabinet minister, called for Mr Cameron to
reinstate his commitment to a referendum once he wins power to give additional
legitimacy to his attempts to repatriate powers from Brussels.

The row coincided with the Conservative stance being attacked as "pathetic'' by
a leading member of France's centre-Right government.

Pierre Lellouche, the French minister for Europe, said Mr Cameron's plans would
marginalise Britain. A spokesman for Mr Lellouche later said, however, that his
language had been clumsy.

Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, also attempted to ease tensions by
welcoming the "Anglo-Saxon and English pragmatism'' of Mr Cameron's decision on
a referendum.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ex-MEP guilty of fiddling

BYLINE: by LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 90 words


A FORMER MEP faces jail after blowing thousands of pounds of taxpayers' cash.

Tom Wise, 61, fi ddled his expenses to rake in GBP 36,000 and even boasted he
was repatriating EU money to the UK.

The ex-UKIP MEP for the East initially claimed he needed the cash to pay his
researcher Lindsay Jenkins, 62. But he used it to buy bottles of vintage wine,
pay off his credit card and buy a new car.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, admitted his guilt midway through his false
accounting trial at Southwark Crown Court.

He will be sentenced on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHEAT: Euro-MP Wise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 6, 2009 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Tory indecision and division over Europe

BYLINE: Dr Nick Robinson

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 207 words


It is perhaps both alarming and predictable that it has taken the intervention
of France's Europe minister to bring the Conservative party's position on Europe
to the fore (France: 'autistic Tories castrated UK', 5 November). The French
position makes it clear that the Conservatives are misguided, reactionary and
engaging in damaging political posturing. So how is it to be explained? The
simple answer is that the party remains wracked by indecision and division over
Europe and that Cameron is following a long line of Conservative leaders in
talking tough on Europe for political gain.

Yet there is potentially a more insidious aspect to Cameron's position. In
talking tough on Europe, he is coming dangerously close to the language used by
both the BNP and Ukip on this issue - pandering to political extremism,
isolationism and petty nationalism. To this degree, the Conservatives are
following generations of the debate on immigration and asylum, with politicians
mainstreaming arguments which should be marginalised. It is time to reject such
approaches and to acknowledge that, while the EU is not perfect, Britain's best
interests are served by operating at its heart.

Dr Nick Robinson

Lecturer in EU public policy, University of Leeds

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 6, 2009 Friday

Politics: Former MEP faces jail over £36,000 fiddle

BYLINE: Deborah Summers and agencies

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 92 words


A former Ukip MEP who masterminded a £36,000 expenses fiddle is facing jail
after confessing yesterday during his trial. Tom Wise, 61, had been charged with
false accounting and money-laundering. The former policeman spent a year
channelling taxpayers' cash into a secret bank account. He pretended the £3,000
secretarial assistance allowance he received every month was for his researcher
but paid her just £500 and spent the rest on himself, Southwark crown court was
told. Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, was kicked out of Ukip over the
scandal.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

As the world sees it...

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 362 words


US Republicans start to make a comeback

THE NEW YORK TIMES

Republicans won, fundamentally, because President Obama and the Democratic
leadership in Washington have rebranded themselves as the party of economic
irresponsibility. In New Jersey, where the Republican Chris Christie won the
governorship, 57 per cent of voters said the economy and taxes were the top
issues. In Virginia 60 per cent said the same and Bob McDonnell, the Republican
Governor-elect, won economic voters by 15 percentage points. As my friend James
Carville might now say: "It's the economy, again, stupid." While the
conservative base was energised - conservative turnout was up 7 per cent in
Virginia and 5 per cent in New Jersey from 2008 - something else took Republican
candidates across the finish line: They remembered their principles were good
for more than saying no. (Alex Castellanos)

The Tories on Europe

IAIN DALE

What David Cameron achieved today was to deliver a speech which was gritty,
determined, realistic, statesmanlike. There was no bullshit. He just told it how
it is. He reiterated the point that he never promised a referendum once the
Treaty of Lisbon was ratified and that to do so would have been futile. And he's
right. And deep down in the recesses of their Eurosceptic heads, even UKIP
members and supporters know it. With his proposals for a Sovereignty Act he will
ensure this sorry saga (which is Brown's fault) can never happen again.

US in Afghanistan

KABULPRESS.ORG

American aid ... undermines the efforts of the Afghan government. The Americans
want instant credit for the aid they provide, so they dispense much of it
directly. They emphasise "quick-impact projects" which have resulted in
construction of cheap roads and buildings that begin to fall apart in a few
years. The current manner in which American aid is dispensed has left the Afghan
government underfunded, with no ability to conduct long term planning or to
initiate long-term development. (Matthew J Nasuti)

INDEPENDENT MINDS

* Have your say on the issues of the day at independent.co.uk/opinion * Get
writing for The

Independent!Start your own Independent Minds blog at
independent.co.uk/independentminds

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Ex-Ukip MEP faces jail over expenses scam;
Some £36,000 of public money was siphoned into Tom Wise's bank account

BYLINE: Michael Savage POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 459 words


A FORMER MEP is facing a seven-year prison sentence after he admitted fiddling
his expenses by tens of thousands of pounds, using the money to fund a love of
fine wine and a new car.

Tom Wise, who was formerly an MEP for the UK Independence Party (Ukip) and then
became independent following the allegations, finally confessed yesterday that
he had masterminded a fraud that saw him siphon off around £36,000 of public
money into his own bank account. He had originally denied the charges against
him.

The 61-year-old, elected as an MEP for the East of England in 2004, spent a year
profiting from a £3,000 allowance designed to cover secretarial costs. Wise told
officials that he was handing the money to his 62-year-old researcher, Lindsay
Jenkins. However, Mrs Jenkins was paid £500 a month and the remainder stayed in
a bank account controlled by the former MEP, London's Southwark Crown Court
heard.

Wise, from Leighton Buzzard in Bedfordshire, used the fund to pay for a
lifestyle that included a passion for fine wines. The court was told that he
used around £3,500 of the public money to pay for importing two wines, and a
further £6,500 went on a dark green Peugeot 206. He probably maintained the
deception by asking his researcher to sign blank documents which he filled in
later, the court heard.

Once he had been exposed by a newspaper sting, Wise quickly began repaying
£25,530 in an apparent bid to avoid further investigation. "He did so because he
had been caught and was trying to minimise the trouble he was in," said Mark
Fenhalls, prosecuting. Had he continued with the alleged fraud through his
five-year term in office, he could have made £180,000 in allowances.

Wise had denied false accounting. But with the court due to hear evidence
against him from Ukip leader Nigel Farage, he began to negotiate a deal to
change his plea. The trial was adjourned, with Wise confessing yesterday. A
charge of money laundering was dropped. He will be sentenced next Wednesday and
could become the first British politician to be jailed for fiddling expenses.

Mrs Jenkins was cleared of false accounting and using criminal property.

Another former Ukip MEP, Ashley Mote, 73, was jailed for nine months for benefit
fraud in 2007. Paul Nuttall, the chairman of Ukip, said in a statement: "Tom
Wise broke faith with the UK Independence Party, which is why the whip was
withdrawn. We believe as a party it is vital as a matter of public confidence
that justice is done."

* Alan Duncan, the Tory frontbench spokesman on prisons, was cleared by the
Commons standards watchdog yesterday of wrongly claiming tens of thousands of
pounds in mortgage interest payments on his second home.

How to explain the stink of dishonesty in politics

Andreas Whittam Smith, page 47

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                 2 Star Edition

EXES MEP'S FACING JAIL;
EUROPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 94 words


SHAMED former Ukip MEP Tom Wise was facing jail last night after confessing to a
pounds 36,000 wages fiddle.

Wise, 62, claimed pounds 3,000-amonth in Euro cash for "secretarial assistance"
over a year while paying his researcher Lindsay Jenkins pounds 500.

Jenkins, 61, of West London, had denied false accounting.

She was acquitted in a joint trial when Wise changed his plea to guilty and
Southwark crown court heard Jenkins innocently signed blank forms. The scam
could have netted pounds 180,000 over the five years he'd planned. Wise will be
sentenced on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCAM ex-Ukip MEP Wise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MP: Yes, I DID fiddle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 89 words


A FORMER Euro MP who fiddled £36,000 was facing jail last night after confessing
at his trial.

Tom Wise, 61, UKIP member for East of England, admitted spending most of a
£3,000-a-month allowance claimed for researcher Lindsay Jenkins, 62, on himself.
He bought a car and wine and paid credit card debts, Southwark Crown Court was
told.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, denied fraud but changed his plea three days
into his trial.

He will be sentenced next Wednesday. Mrs Jenkins was also accused of fraud but
cleared after his admission.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Euro MP faces jail for fiddle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


A FORMER Euro MP who fiddled £36,000 was facing jail last night after confessing
at his trial.

Tom Wise, 61, who was UKIP member for East of England, admitted spending most of
a £3,000-a-month allowance for his researcher on himself.

He bought a car and fine wines and paid credit card debts while handing Lindsay
Jenkins, 62, just £500, Southwark Crown Court was told.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, denied fraud but changed his plea three days
into his trial.

He will be sentenced next Wednesday. Mrs Jenkins was also accused of fraud but
cleared after his admission.

Wise was kicked out of UKIP over the scandal.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fine wines ... Wise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEP who fiddled £36,000 in expenses faces jail term

BYLINE: Adam Sherwin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 314 words


An MEP who fiddled tens of thousands of pounds in expenses to buy fine wines and
a car faces jail after he confessed during his trial.

Tom Wise, 61, who was elected to the European Parliament for the United Kingdom
Independence Party, spent a year channelling £36,000 of taxpayers' money into a
bank account that he secretly controlled.

Wise, a former policeman, pretended that the £3,000 secretarial assistance
allowance he received every month was for his researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, but
after paying her £500 he spent the rest "in support of his own interests",
Southwark Crown Court was told.

He had denied false accounting but changed his not guilty plea three days into a
three-week trial. The offence carries a maximum term of seven years. He was
allowed to remain on bail and will be sentenced next week.

Mrs Jenkins, 62, who had also been on trial for false accounting and using
criminal property, was cleared after Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire,
changed his plea.

Wise told colleagues that he was "repatriating money from the EU to the UK". He
had been filmed bragging to a newspaper journalist about his "cushy" job and
saying: "It is the opportunity to make shedloads of money." He misled Nigel
Farage, the UKIP leader, about his fraudulent claims and was expelled from the
party after his actions were exposed by a newspaper in 2005.

Wise, who sat as an independent until leaving the European Parliament in June,
began to repay money when the scam was revealed. Mark Fenhalls, for the
prosecution, said: "He did so because he had been caught and was trying to
minimise the trouble he was in."

Paul Nuttall, the chairman of UKIP, said: "Tom Wise broke faith with the UK
Independence Party, which is why the whip was withdrawn."

Wise could be the second of the party's 12 MEPs elected in 2004 to go to prison.
Ashley Mote was jailed for nine months for benefit fraud in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron pledge: No more transfer of powers to EU

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 575  words


DAVID Cameron last night unveiled a "never again" pledge to stop Britain being
dragged into a European super-state.

The Tory leader promised a new "Sovereignty Bill", making it clear that British
laws come before anything from Europe.

And he vowed that a Conservative government would bring back powers over areas
like the working week, crime and asylum that have been surrendered to Brussels.

But despite the "cast-iron guarantee" of a referendum that he offered two years
ago, he confirmed that there would be no vote on the hated Lisbon Treaty, which
finally became law when the Czech Republic ratified it this week.

Mr Cameron said he wanted to give the British people a "referendum lock"
stopping any more power draining away to Brussels.

And he put the blame squarely on Gordon Brown and Tony Blair for stopping the
British people having their say on Lisbon.

Mr Cameron said: "The decision to promise, and then deny, a referendum was taken
by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

"And I believe it ranks alongside the expenses scandal as one of the reasons
that trust in politics has broken down." He said it would be wrong to have a
"phony" referendum now that Lisbon had become law. But he wanted to "salvage
something from the mess that Labour will have left us".

His plans for a "referendum lock" would mean that "never again should it be
possible for a British government to transfer power to the EU without the say of
the British people".

Mr Cameron said: "It is not politicians' power to give away - it belongs to the
people. So at the General Election, we will challenge the other political
parties to accept the referendum lock and pledge never to reverse it."

He promised a UK Sovereignty Bill would make it clear that ultimate authority
stays in Britain.

He pledged a Tory government would bring back control of social and employment
law. And he vowed to negotiate "a complete opt-out" from the European Charter of
Fundamental Rights which hands over control of issues including asylum.

The third area where he would battle to bring powers back to Britain was
criminal justice.

The Tory leader said he hoped to succeed with all his promises by the
next-but-one election - due no later than 2015. But, he added, his main priority
on taking office would be rescuing Britain's shattered economy and society.

Senior Tory sources refused last night to suggest that Mr Cameron would hold a
gun to the EU's head, threatening to block countries like Croatia from joining
or blocking reform of the EU's budget.

Some leading Tory eurosceptics were still angry last night. Former Tory Cabinet
minister Lord Tebbit warned a referendum would be needed to force the EU to hand
power back.

"Without a clear majority of the British people backing them, they haven't got a
chance of Europe taking them seriously, " he said.

And Conservative backbencher Douglas Carswell also insisted a referendum on
Britain's relationship with the EU was essential.

Another senior eurosceptic MP warned local Tory activists would be "deeply
disheartened" by the ditching of referendum plans.

A poll of grassroots Tories yesterday showed the party was split on the issue,
while a Daily Express poll revealed that 98 per cent of readers want a
referendum.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said the renegotiation of EU
powers was impossible and that Mr Cameron was trying to deceive people.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband accused Mr Cameron of tearing up his referendum
promise.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron vowed 'referendum lock'
Judges arrive at a Czech constitutional court to ratify the Lisbon Treaty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron's cast from the same mould as Brown;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 52

LENGTH: 156  words


BY reneging on his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty ("Britain:
The End", November 4), David Cameron has shown he's cast from the same mould as
our weak-kneed Prime Minister.

Not only has he taken away our chance to vote on the major issue facing Britain
- namely, being swallowed up by the EU and losing our sovereignty - but he's
broken his pledge not to embrace 'big government'. I can't think of a bigger
government than the one in Brussels.

And I wonder why the millions who fought and died in two world wars to prevent
our enslavement bothered.

None of the three main parties can be trusted on what is the largest threat to
our constitution and democracy since the Gunpowder Plot, so the public must look
for an alternative. May I suggest UKIP?

At bonfire parties tonight, we'll be celebrating the defeat of a threat to our
democracy in 1605 - a victory the EU is about to overturn in its favour.

S Dandy, Yeadon, W Yorks

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAW DEAL: Victory for EU where Guy Fawkes failed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Can anyone have faith in what politicians say now?

SECTION: LETTERS; 52

LENGTH: 81  words


WITH the Lisbon Treaty about to become law across Europe, the only word that
comes to mind to describe our unelected Prime Minister is traitor. And it is sad
that David Cameron has let us down by doing a U-turn on his referendum pledge.

Can anyone have faith in what politicians say? Will UKIP deliver on its promise
to get us out of the EU and regain our sovereignty? Is there anyone with the
guts to safeguard our democracy? If so, please get us out of this hellhole.

Z Rowlands, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Cameron's EU swerve: The grassroots will be disappointed by
the failure to push for any real change on Europe

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 602 words


William Hague has long regarded the Europe issue as something of a ticking bomb
at the heart of the Conservative party. Party managers worry that Europe could
still explode at any moment, but as the years have passed since the very
difficult and extended period when Europe was splitting the party, their fears
have slowly subsided. "Don't move the bomb" has become the tactic of choice for
most of the party's leading members.

The "don't-move-the-bomb" crowd feel their stance has been vindicated by the row
that has engulfed the party since David Cameron took Tory MEPs out of the
European Peoples' party and joined a new group of MEPs from Poland, the Czech
Republic and Latvia. The Guardian, the Financial Times, the Independent and, to
some extent, the Economist have hit the party day-after-day with the (false)
suggestion that there is something unacceptable about the views of Cameron's new
European allies. One Europhile Tory MEP has warned the leadership that carefully
nurtured relations with the centre-left side of Fleet Street could be ruined by
an anti-EU stance.

The average Conservative party member doesn't much care what the Guardian
thinks. They note that the most widely read newspapers are just as Eurosceptic
as them. They also note surveys that show British voters becoming more
Eurosceptic, not less. The Conservatives and the UK Independence party topped
June's Euro poll. Scrapping the pound remains incredibly unpopular, despite
predictions that opposition would melt away as Britons used the euro while on
holiday in Spain, France and Greece.

Grassroots Tories are overwhelmingly opposed to any further European
integration. The party leadership is calculating, however, that the grassroots
hunger to oust Gordon Brown will mean that their disappointment at Cameron's
decision not to hold any kind of referendum will be contained.

New polling by ConservativeHome.com suggests that the leadership might get its
way. A majority of Tory members think two things about the Europe issue. First,
a narrow majority accept that a vote on Lisbon is no longer sensible. But they
would have still liked some sort of referendum, perhaps on the nature of
Britain's future relationship with the EU as David Davis suggested yesterday.

But the second key thing about the Tory grassroots is that they want Cameron in
No 10. Or, more to the point, they desperately want Brown out. Nearly
three-quarters of Tory members say that Eurosceptic MPs need to keep quiet and
maximise Cameron's chances at the next general election.

I can't pretend I'm enthusiastic about what Cameron announced yesterday
afternoon: no referendum of any kind. Given that Lisbon is a self-amending
treaty, full of ratchet clauses, the promise of future referendums on transfers
of power is a bit like closing the stable door after the horse has bolted. There
will be no meaningful threats to Europe if there is no serious willingness to
renegotiate. If Cameron had put a big Eurosceptic beast in charge of
renegotiations - someone like John Redwood or David Davis - I would have been
more reassured. But that did not happen either.

Cameron gives every impression of wanting to kick the European issue into the
long grass so that he can get on with other things. Those other things are
incredibly important. There is enough in all of the Conservative programme to
make me enthusiastic about Cameron becoming prime minister. After today,
however, I am far from convinced that Britain's relationship with Europe will be
fundamentally different after five years of a Conservative government.

Tim Montgomerie is the editor of ConservativeHome.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday

British ex-MEP Tom Wise faces jail after £36,000 expenses scam

BYLINE: Deborah Summersguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 695 words

ABSTRACT

Former policeman was charged with false accounting and money-laundering

FULL TEXT

A former British MEP who masterminded a £36,000 expenses fiddle was facing jail
today after he confessed during his trial.

Tom Wise, 61, had been charged with false accounting and money-laundering after
an investigation into claims that he misused thousands of pounds of expenses.

Originally elected for the UK Independence party, Wise sat as an independent
after being expelled from the party.

The former policeman, whose term of office in the European parliament came to an
end in July this year, spent a year channelling taxpayers' cash into a bank
account he secretly controlled.

He pretended the £3,000 "secretarial assistance allowance" he received every
month was for his 62-year-old researcher Lindsay Jenkins.

After paying her just £500, he spent the rest "in support of his own interests",
London's Southwark crown court was told.

Mark Fenhalls, prosecuting, said: "He used the funds, for example, to buy a car,
to purchase fine wines and pay off some of his credit card debts."

The barrister said that when the fraud was eventually exposed by a national
newspaper four years ago, the MEP promptly "took steps to cancel the claim and
repay the money".

"He did so because he had been caught and was trying to minimise the trouble he
was in," said counsel. "Perhaps he hoped by swift repayment he could somehow
head off further inquiry."

Had it not been discovered, the scam could have lasted five years and netted
£180,000.

Wise, of Ship Road, Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, who was kicked out of Ukip
over the scandal, denied false accounting between 14 October and 16 November
2004.

But, on the third day of his three-week trial and just before Ukip leader Nigel
Farrage was to give evidence against him, Wise began a protracted round of
discussions with his legal team.

After several hours and an overnight adjournment to finalise details, the jury
trying the case was discharged and the disgraced politician then admitted he was
guilty after all.

Jenkins, of Queens Club Gardens, Barons Court, west London, had also been on
trial, but was cleared.

She had denied both the false accounting charge and an allegation of using
criminal property between 14 November 2004 and 1 November the following year.

The court heard she allegedly used "just shy" of £5,000 of the stolen money to
publish a political work she had written.

Fenhalls explained that, in pleading guilty, Wise "fully accepted responsibility
for his actions and, by virtue of his plea and what he says, he has effectively
exonerated Mrs Jenkins".

The barrister said the former MEP also accepted documents he got Jenkins to sign
to pull off the fraud were "misleading and were in all probability blank when he
asked her to sign them".

"His acceptance of responsibility is fully consistent with the prosecution's
opening and makes his basis of plea acceptable."

He told the court Jenkins's case had always been that the documents were blank,
that she had "trusted him", and that the £500 Wise paid her each month was for
work actually done.

"We are able to say ... there is no realistic prospect of conviction, nor, in
fact, were it necessary, a public interest in continuing. In those circumstances
we do not invite a trial against Mrs Jenkins and invite verdicts of not guilty
against her."

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC agreed, and formally ordered her acquittal on both
counts, adding that her defence costs should be paid out of public funds.

After quashing an outstanding money-laundering allegation against Wise, he told
the former MEP he would be sentenced next Wednesday.

He said he could remain on bail in the meantime, but warned: "It must, however,
be fully understood that in terms of the ultimate sentence, nothing must be read
into that."

The judge then added: "I see Mr Wise nodding because he knows too well what the
situation is."

Ukip's chairman, Paul Nuttall, said: "Tom Wise broke faith with the UK
Independence party, which is why the whip was withdrawn. We believe as a party
it is vital as a matter of public confidence that justice is done and have no
doubt that this will set a precedent for many Westminster MPs."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cameron backs down on EU treaty referendum

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 675 words


David Cameron declared yesterday that he would not allow his premiership to be
dominated by a "massive bust-up" with the European Union as he shelved any
Europe referendum for at least five years.

The Tory leader masked his retreat from his promise of a vote on the Treaty of
Lisbon with a firm pledge that powers would "never again" be transferred from
the UK to Brussels without a referendum and that all future European treaties
would require one in Britain. But he declared that he would not call a "phoney
referendum" now that the Lisbon Treaty to streamline EU decision-making has been
approved, saying it would achieve nothing.

He tried to reassure Eurosceptic MPs and grassroots Tories by promising to
negotiate a return of some EU powers over workers' rights and criminal justice
to the UK and to demand a more secure opt-out from the EU's charter of
fundamental rights. He promised a Sovereignty Bill to stop the European Court of
Justice overriding the British courts and to ensure that Britain has "the final
word" on its own laws.

Mr Cameron also said that a UK referendum could be held following the general
election after next if the EU continued down a federalist path. Despite his
tough words, his overall message in a speech in London was that he would pursue
a more "softly softly" approach to Europe if the Tories win the general election
than many of his MPs would want. "Yes, I believe we will be able to negotiate
the return of the powers I have set out. But no, we will not rush into some
massive Euro bust-up," he said. "We will take our time, negotiate firmly,
patiently and respectfully, and aim to achieve the return of the powers I have
set out over the lifetime of a parliament."

Admitting that some people wanted him to go further and faster, he said: "If we
win the election, we will inherit the worst public finances of any incoming
government for 50 years. We will have a generational challenge to get Britain to
live within her means, to secure economic recovery and to deliver this country
from the appalling mess left by this Labour Government. That has to come before
anything else."

An incoming Tory government would amend the 1972 European Communities Act which
took Britain into the EU to include an Irish-style "referendum lock" on any
treaty handing over further powers to Brussels - including joining the euro.

Insisting that his new policy was "credible, doable and deliverable", Mr Cameron
denied that he was backtracking on a Lisbon Treaty referendum as his promise had
never applied once it became law. "I recognise there are some who, now that we
cannot have a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, want a referendum on something
else... anything else," he said. "But I just don't think it's right to concoct
some new pretext for a referendum simply to have one for the sake of it."

Mr Cameron received broad support when he outlined his new stance at a meeting
of the 1922 Committee of Tory MPs. But some expressed disappointment. Douglas
Carswell said: "I think we need a referendum on our relationship with Europe."
He criticised Mr Cameron's proposals to ensure British law had primacy over EU
law, saying it might merely entrench the status quo.

Tim Montgomerie, editor of the ConservativeHome website, said Mr Cameron gave
every impression of wanting to kick Europe into the long grass. "Given that
Lisbon is a self-amending treaty, full of ratchet clauses, the promise of future
referenda on transfers of power is a bit like closing the stable door after the
horse has bolted. There were no meaningful threats to Europe if there is no
serious willingness from other EU leaders to renegotiate." Nigel Farage, leader
of Ukip, which wants Britain to leave the EU, accused Mr Cameron of attempting
to deceive the public. "The true state of affairs is that we are signed up to a
higher, European legal order. Renegotiation is not credible or doable. This is
all too little too late," he said.

'In between the stylish bluster was a calming tone'

Editorial, page 30

Cameron, Europe and pure waffle

Adrian Hamilton, page 31

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 5, 2009 Thursday 3:53 PM GMT

Tom Wise's fiddled expenses will be gripping Westminster

BYLINE: By David Hughes

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 222 words


I suspect that the details of the case of Tom Wise are being pored over with
horrified fascination in the Palace of Westminster. The former Ukip MEP has just
pleaded guilty to trousering 36,000 in an expenses fiddle in the European
Parliament.

He pretended the 3,000 "secretarial assistance allowance" he received every
month was for his 62-year-old researcher Lindsay Jenkins but he paid her just
500 and used the rest "in supportof his own interests". Naturally, this
bare-faced and rather unsophisticated scam was not uncovered by the European
Parliament which, as Dan Hannan has frequently pointed out, is so ridden with
corruption that it makes Westminster look a model of probity. It was actually a
newspaper that uncovered Wises's fiddling. The question the case raises is
simple: if Wise can end up in court for pocketing money he had no right to, why
haven't the most egregious MP exes fiddlers had their collars felt by the boys
in blue? Wise's 36,000 looks positively modest when set against the sums creamed
off by those MPs who have maxed out their second home payments by making dodgy
declarations about which of their homes is their primary residence. Wouldn't the
spectacle of one of them standing in the dock be a more effective deterrent to
future wrongdoing than any number of Sir Christopher Kelly's recommendations?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 5, 2009 Thursday 1:36 PM GMT

Cartooning truth or perception

BYLINE: By Adams

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 158 words


Cartoonists usually have to preach to the converted. You buy your preferred
newspaper or magazine, and the cartoons generally reflect what you think. But
what happens when what the readers think is different from the truth?

A case in point here is Cameron's "U-Turn" over holding a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty. As Benedict Brogan points out (here) it is not a U Turn. Cameron
said "We will hold a referendum on the Treaty" and then said "but not if it is
ratified before the election." He whispered the second bit, but he did say it.
He has stuck to his word, but readers are up in arms. Another liar. Another
untrustworthy politician. UKIP here I come.

So what is a cartoonist to do? Illustrate that Cameron is actually a man of his
word? It doesn't reflect what the readers believe. Caricature him as yet another
slippery politician who'll do anything to get into power? Readers will love
that. But it's not technically true in this specific case...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 140 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday

'CAST-IRON' PLEDGE THAT MELTED AWAY

LENGTH: 868 words


TORY LEADER DROPS REFERENDUM AFTER CZECHS CAVE IN TO BRUSSELS

BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

DAVID Cameron ditched his 'cast-iron' pledge to hold a referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty last night after the Brussels power grab was finally ratified.

The Tory leader is now under intense pressure to offer the public a say on
Britain's relations with Brussels if he wins power.

Senior Tory David Davis turns the screw today by demanding Mr Cameron hold a
referendum on repatriating powers from Brussels, within three months of taking
office.

And an exclusive poll of grassroots Tories released to the Mail shows that 66
per cent want their leader to offer a nationwide vote on the EU if he wins the
election. The widely-hated treaty was finally ratified yesterday after the Czech
government caved in to months of pressure from Brussels.

Their decision means that a superstate with its own president, foreign minister
and diplomats will be in force by December 1. Mr Cameron said he was
'disappointed' by the decision. William Hague took to the airwaves to explain
that the Tory campaign for a referendum ñ backed by the Daily Mail ñ was at an
end.

The Shadow Foreign Secretary said: 'What has happened today means it is no
longer possible to have a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.'

He said that because the treaty 'had become European law' a referendum could 'no
longer prevent the creation of the president of the European council and 'the
loss of British

national vetoes'. Mr Hague branded it a 'bad day for democracy' and placed the
blame firmly at Gordon Brown's door for reneging on his pledge to hold a
referendum on the EU constitution.

But it was Mr Cameron's own ' castiron guarantee' of a vote in 2007 that was in
the spotlight last night.

His aides argued that his pledge was based on the treaty not being ratified at
the time of any referendum. But Mr Cameron made a rod for his own back by making
the pledge a centrepiece of his bid to win over eurosceptics in his own party.

The Tory leader will today pledge to take back national control over social
policy and some aspects of crime policy. But he is expected to make that pledge
only in his party's election manifesto and not in an offer of a referendum on
relations with the EU.

Grassroots members last night inundated Tory chatrooms on the internet
threatening to switch to the UK Independence Party.

The poll of 2,000 activists showing that 66 per cent want a referendum was
carried out by the Conservative-Home website.

In a further embarrassment for Mr Cameron, the same poll found that grassroots
members would rather see Mr Davis handle the negotiations with Europe than Mr
Hague.

Writing on the opposite page, Mr Davis puts himself at the head of the 'sane'
wing of Tory eurosceptics who want to push Mr Cameron into a firm pledge to hold
another vote.

'We should have a referendum, not on the treaty, but on the negotiating mandate
that the British Government takes to the European Union,' he says. 'This has
many virtues. It is meaningful.

'It allows the British people to express their view on the future of their
nation. Most of all, it gives the British government a formidable negotiating
weapon.'

Mr Davis calls for Mr Cameron to offer a long shopping list of powers to seize
back, including powers over criminal justice, asylum and immigration policies,
trade negotiation rights and an opt-out of the European Charter of Fundamental
Rights.

He concludes: 'If we are to be able to manage our relationship with the European
Union, let alone change it, we need to have a powerful weapon like a referendum.
The referendum should the first piece of legislation in the new parliament, and
should be held within three months of the election.'

His call was echoed by prominent Tory MEP Daniel Hannan who said: 'The case for
a British referendum is simply that all three parties promised one and that, in
any case, no one under the age of 52 has had the opportunity to vote on the EU.

'A referendum on European integration ñ ideally on the broad repatriation of
powers ñ is essential.'

Bill Cash, an arch eurosceptic, said Mr Cameron had been 'very badly advised',
adding: 'A referendum at least gives people the chance to make their democratic
choice as to which way to go on this matter.'

Czech president Vaclav Klaus ratified the treaty after his country's
constitutional court ruled it was consistent with the national constitution.

The ratification of the treaty gave Mr Cameron's political opponents a field day
yesterday.

Gordon Brown welcomed the decision and said: 'Today is a day when Europe looks
forward, when it sets aside years of debate on its institutions, and moves

to take strong and collective action on the issues that matter most to European
citizens: security, climate change, jobs and growth.'

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson said: 'David Cameron gave a cast-iron
guarantee, as he called it, to put this treaty to a referendum. It looks as if
that cast-iron guarantee has become very rusty indeed and that he's just about
to undertake a major U-turn.

'I don't think he's going to succeed in tearing up all those commitments were he
to be elected to office in this country

... he's in danger of misleading the British people all over again.'

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday

Landscape of neglect is fertile breeding ground for far right extremism

BYLINE: Chris Arnotguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1589 words

ABSTRACT

Fact and fiction blur as Heartland novelist Anthony Cartwright takes Chris Arnot
on a tour through estates of despair

FULL TEXT

There is a passage in Anthony Cartwright's novel, Heartland, currently being
serialised on Radio 4, in which veteran Labour councillor Jim Bayliss ponders
why his seat in Cinderheath is under threat from the British National party in
local elections in 2002. "How could there be a Labour Party when there was no
labour left for it to represent?" he muses. "It had become something else. There
were jobs now, of course. The big losses had come some 20-odd years ago, but it
was hardly the same - jobs for cleaners and security men, shop work and mobile
phone sales... Even the call-centre jobs were going to Bangalore. This was the
town's position in the new world order."

The town is Dudley, in the west Midlands. Cinderheath is a fictional ward, but
Dudley is real enough. It even has its own castle. Cartwright and I can see it
impressively cresting the horizon as we trudge the mile or so from Dudley Port
station towards the town centre. Along with the adjoining zoo, the castle is
what makes Dudley distinctive among the Black Country towns that were
collectively known as the "workshop of the world" when Queen Victoria pulled
down the blinds on one of the uglier parts of her empire as the royal train
passed through. On a sunny, soot-free autumnal day in 2009, we can see the flag
of St George fluttering from the castle ramparts.

There were many more such flags around Dudley in the early summer of 2002 -
partly because England were playing Argentina in a crucial qualifying group
match at the World Cup finals in Japan, and partly for more sinister reasons. "I
wanted to capture the fevered intensity of that time," Cartwright explains. "It
was only a few months after 9/11. Three men from Tipton, just down the road,
were being held in Guantanamo and someone from the media had come up with the
not very helpful term 'the Tipton Taliban'. There was a feeling around of
'What's going to happen next?' Football seemed to work well as a way of
exploring social issues. Supporting England can be massively positive. For
people whose identity is predominantly parochial, it can give them something to
cohere around. But it can also be exploited by those with another agenda."

Much of the book switches between Cinderheath FC clubhouse - where players,
friends and relatives are gathered to watch Beckham's boys beat the "Argies" -
and a local match between an all-white Cinderheath side and an all-Muslim team,
while BNP thugs prowl the touchline.

Gaining ground

Heartland was published by Tindal Street Press in Birmingham earlier this year,
shortly before the London literati began debating why so few of the books
shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize were grappling with contemporary issues. A
few months on, Cartwright suddenly finds himself in demand to help explain why
the political far right is gaining ground - perhaps because Radio 4 happened to
make this, his second novel, its Book at Bedtime shortly after BNP leader Nick
Griffin's appearance on Question Time.

"Fiction allows you to explore ideas and motivation in a bit more depth than a
current affairs programme can hope to do," Cartwright suggests. And a novelist
with his background is better placed than most to do that, because of where he
comes from and where he went to. Born in Dudley 35 years ago, he graduated from
the University of East Anglia and went on to teach in the East End of London
after working in factories, pubs, a meat-packing plant, London Underground and
Spitalfields market.

"Even in London, there are hidden corners that have more in common with areas
like this than a great cosmopolitan city," he says, gesturing around us at the
soulless retail and business parks of post-industrial Dudley. "I taught at the
Royal Docks Community School in Newham until 2004, and there were predominantly
white estates full of people who felt left behind by the ongoing changes in
Docklands."

He now lives in Nottingham and teaches in Sutton in Ashfield, a former mining
town where he encounters children from similarly disillusioned families.
"Extremism flourishes," he maintains, "when people have a perception that
they've been abandoned and bypassed by the pace of change. There's always a
temptation to look around for simple answers to complex questions."

Former dockers, miners and foundry workers have one thing in common: at
different times in comparatively recent industrial history, they lost not only
their incomes but also the self-respect, identity and camaraderie that went with
the job.

Our walk from the station to the centre of Dudley takes us along a clogged dual
carriageway that could be anywhere in England. At one point, we come across the
all-too-typical mixture of multiplex cinema, 24-hour supermarket, DIY superstore
and fried-chicken chains. "That's built on what used to be the county ground,
home of Dudley cricket club, where Worcestershire came to play once a season,"
Cartwright points out. "Twenty-five years ago, the groundsman took off the
covers to find a dirty great hole caused by the limestone workings underneath.
They promptly closed it down, along with Dudley Town FC's ground next door."

At a stroke went two great sources of local pride and identity. This was the
cricket pitch where Basil D'Oliveira hit a century for Worcestershire in the
1960s and Wally Hammond a double century for Gloucestershire in the 1930s.
Either man could have glanced up at the castle and idly wondered whether they
were on the picturesque Arundel cricket ground in West Sussex. A glance the
other way, however, would have encompassed thriving foundries and factories.

There had already been wholesale closures by the time of the cricket ground's
all too symbolic collapse. "Even as a boy, I was aware of this landscape of
decay as the physical fabric of the town was boarded up, and that fed into the
psychology of the place," Cartwright recollects. "And at times of economic
collapse, people always look around for someone to blame." In this case, people
from the Indian subcontinent, who had come to keep the factories and foundries
going in the boom times, says the author. "My inclination is to look a long way
from here towards the Thatcher government when it comes to looking for
culprits," he says.

We walk into a central shopping area that has never recovered from the decision
in the 1980s to allow developers to build the vast Merry Hill shopping centre a
mile or two down the road. Like Meadowhall in Sheffield and the Metrocentre in
Gateshead, it was symbolic of the switch from manufacturing to retail as a
provider of (lower-paid) employment. Plans have just been announced to close
Beattie's, the only department store in the centre of Dudley. We sit in the
panoramic window of its cafe and look out across the dual carriageway that
slices through the heart of the town, conveying shoppers towards Merry Hill.

Domes and minarets

Across the road, we can see the waste ground where the Dudley Muslim Association
has outline planning permission to build what its many opponents are calling a
"super-mosque". Some 55,000 signatures have been gathered against it on a
petition started by Malcolm Davis, a councillor representing the UK Independence
party. "It will destroy the ambience of a historic market town with a castle,"
he claims, "and make people feel intimidated." Beyond the cafe window are plenty
of buildings out of keeping with a historic market town. But then, they don't
have domes and minarets.

The argument, involving the government inspectorate and appeals to the high
court, has been going on so long that Cartwright felt able to include it in a
book set in 2002. "Any discussion of the practicalities - such as the fact that
the current central mosque is too small - is being drowned out by the noise
against Islam," he says. "While I was writing the book, there was similarly
orchestrated opposition to a mosque in West Ham [in east London]."

Cartwright uses the literary device of having the Dudley mosque being planned
for the site of an old steelworks. In reality, it was Merry Hill that was built
partly on the site of the old Round Oak works, which closed in 1982. "They
employed 5,000 people and fed the local economy like a generator, whereas Merry
Hill has been a sponge, sucking the life out of Dudley," says Cartwright's
father, Keith. A recently retired engineer, he has joined us for a lunchtime
pint in a rare survivor in these parts - a traditional Black Country pub. By
now, we're in neighbouring Netherton, close to the foundry that made the anchor
chain for the Titanic. That's long closed too.

Cartwright senior goes on: "This area has gone through massive socio-economic
changes in the past 30 years and there's understandable discontent. That's what
the far right pick up on." And that's why the fictional Jim Bayliss finished his
political career a disillusioned man. As it says in Heartland: "Jim became a
councillor in 1979, against the prevailing mood. He thought he was doing his bit
for Cinderheath, Dudley, England, the Labour movement, the working class."

But the ground was shifting under the working class and sinking, like an old
cricket pitch falling into the limestone workings that once fed the iron and
steel-making process in the workshop of the world.

Heartland, published by Tindal Street Press (£9.99), is Radio 4's Book at
Bedtime until Friday. To order a copy for £9.99 with free UK p&p, go to
guardian.co.uk/ bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday

Cameron's capitulation to Europe

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerieguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 696 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Montgomerie: By abandoning a referendum, to the despair of grassroots
Tories, David Cameron has ducked any reckoning with Brussels

FULL TEXT

William Hague has long regarded the Europe issue as something of a ticking bomb
at the heart of the Conservative party. Party managers worry that Europe could
still explode at any moment, but as the years have passed since the very
difficult and extended period when Europe was splitting the party, their fears
have slowly subsided. "Don't move the bomb" has become the tactic of choice for
most of the leading members of the Conservative party.

The "don't-move-the-bomb" crowd feel that their stance has been vindicated by
since David Cameron took Tory MEPs out of the European Peoples' party and joined
a new group of MEPs from Poland, the Czech Republic and Latvia. The Guardian,
Financial Times, Independent and, to some extent, the Economist have hit the
party day-after-day with the (false) suggestion that there is something
unacceptable about the views of David Cameron's new European allies.  that
carefully-nurtured relations with the centre-left side of Fleet Street could be
ruined by an anti-EU stance.

The average Conservative party member doesn't much care what the Guardian
thinks. They note that  as them. They also note surveys that show British voters
becoming more Eurosceptic, not less. The Conservatives and the United Kingdom
Independence party topped June's Euro poll. Scrapping the pound remains
incredibly unpopular, despite predictions that opposition would melt away as
Britons used the euro while on holiday in Spain, France and Greece.

Grassroots Tories are overwhelmingly opposed to any further European
integration. The party leadership is calculating, however, that the grassroots
hunger to oust Brown will mean that their disappointment at David Cameron's
decision not to hold any kind of referendum will be contained.

suggests that the leadership might get its way. A majority of Tory members think
two things about the Europe issue. First, a narrow majority accept that a vote
on Lisbon is no longer sensible - but they would have still liked some sort of
referendum. The sort of suggestion  would probably have won their support.

But the second key thing about the Tory grassroots is that they want David
Cameron in No 10. Or, more to the point, they desperately want Gordon Brown out.
Nearly three-quarters of Tory members say that Eurosceptic MPs need to keep
quiet and maximise David Cameron's chances at the next general election.

I can't pretend I'm enthusiastic about what David Cameron has announced this
afternoon: . Given that Lisbon is a self-amending treaty, full of ratchet
clauses, the promise of future referendums on transfers of power is a bit like
closing the stable door after the horse has bolted. There will be no meaningful
threats to Europe if there is no serious willingness to renegotiate. If David
Cameron had put a big Eurosceptic beast in charge of renegotiations - someone
like John Redwood or David Davis - I would have been more reassured. But that
did not happen either.

David Cameron gives every impression of wanting to kick the European issue into
the long grass so that he can get on with other things. Those other things are
incredibly important. They include Michael Gove's revolutionary schools reforms;
Iain Duncan Smith's compassionate conservatism; Andrew Mitchell's reforms to
overseas aid; George Osborne's ambition to cut corporation tax; Chris Grayling's
plans to elect police chiefs; Dominic Grieve's mission to restore Britain's
civil liberties. And, of course, the number one priority: to reduce Gordon
Brown's budget deficit.

There is enough in all of the Conservative programme to make me enthusiastic
about David Cameron becoming prime minister. After today, however, I am far from
convinced that Britain's relationship with Europe will be fundamentally
different after five years of a Conservative government.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MEP fine wine 'con'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 89 words


AN ex-MEP accused of an expenses fiddle spent £3,500 of taxpayers' money on fine
wines, a court heard yesterday.

UKIP's Tom Wise claimed £36,000 in over a year and used it to buy a car and to
settle credit card bills, it was claimed.

In July 2005 Wise made separate payments to wine importers of £2,228 and £1,260,
London's Southwark Crown Court was told.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, and his researcher Lindsay Jenkins, 62, of
Kensington, West London, deny false accounting. She also denies using criminal
property. Trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 4, 2009 Wednesday 4:48 PM GMT

Did Dave just give the finger to Eurosceptics?

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 34 words


That's what it looks like to me. No referendum on Lisbon. No referendum on any
aspect of the new superstate, because asking our opinion would be "phoney". Dan
Hannan, please tell me why I shouldn't vote Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 3, 2009 Tuesday

Cameron reneges on EU treaty vote pledge;
Public will be denied referendum despite Tory 'cast-iron' guarantee

BYLINE: James Kirkup Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860  words


DAVID CAMERON is to announce that a Conservative government will not give voters
a referendum on the European Union's Lisbon Treaty.

The Tory leader's admission, which could come as early as today, will bring
accusations that he has broken clear promises to grant a popular vote on the
agreement. Mr Cameron gave an "ironclad'' promise in 2007 that a Conservative
government would hold a popular vote on Lisbon.

And, in May this year, he said: "A progressive reform agenda demands that we
redistribute power from the EU to Britain and from judges to the people. We will
therefore hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.''

But yesterday Mr Cameron gave his clearest signal yet that he would not hold a
referendum on the treaty, which will create the post of EU president and cancel
more than 50 British vetoes over European policy once it has been endorsed by
all 27 EU members. That process is expected to be completed today when the Czech
Republic ratifies the treaty.

Speaking at a press conference yesterday, Mr Cameron signalled that the Czech
ratification would change his policy. Asked to repeat his "cast-iron'' promise,
he declined. Instead, he accepted that its ratification would mean that a vote
in Britain was no longer possible.

"We want to have a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty but clearly it seems we are
getting closer to the point where the treaty is not going to be a treaty but
becomes part of European law,'' he said.

The constitutional court in the Czech Republic is expected to rule today that
the treaty is compatible with the country's laws, leaving the way open for
Vaclav Klaus, the Czech president, to sign it.

Previously he has tried to block the treaty but has now said he is prepared to
sign it.

Mr Cameron has publicly urged him to hold out, but yesterday he said: "I had
always hoped that President Klaus wouldn't sign but it seems that times are
changing.''

A Tory source said the Conservative leader could now formally abandon the
referendum pledge today, even before the Czech leader signs. Last month the
Tories said they would clarify their position once the Czechs had ratified the
treaty.

"We have to be realistic and once the Czech court rules, we will have to accept
the new reality. We might not wait for Klaus,'' said the source.

Labour had promised a referendum on the European Constitution. However, it said
a vote was not required on the Lisbon Treaty because, although it was based on
the constitution, the two texts were different.

Experts said a referendum on a ratified treaty would have become a vote on
Britain's membership of the EU and Mr Cameron has ruled out any "in-or-out''
vote on Europe. Senior Tories said they would seek  instead to renegotiate
several of the changes that the Lisbon Treaty implemented. "It is clear that a
post-ratification referendum is simply not possible. We will look at the parts
of the treaty that are not acceptable and seek to renegotiate them,'' said a
source.

Mr Cameron's suggestion that no referendum would be possible could anger voters
who believed that a Conservative government would give them a vote. In 2007, a
Daily Telegraph campaign demanding a referendum gathered more than 100,000
signatures.

Mr Cameron's victory in the 2005 party leadership contest came partly due to the
backing he received from Euro-sceptics after promising that he would withdraw
the party's MEPs from the federalist European People's Party. He did that this
year and some of those Euro-sceptics said they now expected Mr Cameron to honour
his "ironclad'' promise to hold a referendum.

"We need a full referendum on Lisbon as we were promised. No ifs or buts,'' said
Bill Cash, the MP for Stone. "This is about the Government of the UK operating
in

line with the democratic wishes of the electorate.''

Barry Legg, a former chief executive of the Conservative Party and a member of
the Bruges Group, a Euro-sceptic think tank, said Mr Cameron needed to "come
clean'' with the British people.

"Why is he breaking his pledge to hold a referendum?'' he said. "How can David
Cameron claim he'll fight to repatriate powers from Brussels when he won't even
fight to implement his own words?''

Some Tory opponents of European integration were prepared to accept Mr Cameron's
reasoning. "You cannot have a referendum on something that doesn't exist,'' said
David Heathcoat-Amory, the MP for Wells. "I shall wait to see what my leader
proposes next.''

Opponents of the treaty from other parties also criticised Mr Cameron.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, described the Tories as
"gutless and dishonest'' in their intentions on a referendum.

In the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron mocked Gordon Brown over Labour's campaign
backing Tony Blair for the EU presidency

"When considering your efforts to get Tony Blair this job, won't most people in
Britain feel this: it is completely unacceptable to see an unelected Prime
Minister pushing for an unelected president under a treaty that no one was
allowed to vote for?'' he said.

Mr Brown responded by mocking Mr Cameron over his "ironclad'' promise. He said
the Tory proposal to renegotiate parts of the treaty would be "fighting
yesterday's battles''.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Ex-MEP 'fiddled expenses to clear his debts';
News in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 57 words


COURTS A former MEP fiddled tens of thousands of pounds in expenses to buy fine
wines and clear debts, Southwark Crown Court heard. Tom Wise, 61, who
represented Ukip before turning independent, allegedly had the cash paid into an
account he secretly controlled. Mr Wise, above, from Leighton Buzzard, denies
false accounting. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 3, 2009 Tuesday 2:22 PM GMT

Will Vclav Klaus sign?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 389 words


It all comes down, as expected, to one man. Vclav Klaus finds himself, like the
protestor at Tiananmen Square exactly 20 years ago, standing alone against the
tanks. Will he scramble out of their path at the last moment?

Everyone seems to think so. He has, after all, negotiated a face-saving opt-out
on the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Only it isn't really an opt-out, just a
declaration. And it hasn't been written into the treaty: the deal is that it
will be written into the next treaty (the one by which Croatia will join).
Except that the Hungarian opposition, Fidesz, which is likely to be in power by
then, says it will veto its inclusion. And even if such a coda were to be added,
it would be meaningless: as the CSU politician, and unofficial spokesman of the
Sudeten Germans, Bernd Posselt, has helpfully explained to the Czechs, the
protocol would make no difference.

President Klaus is a clever man and, unlike the majority of its supporters, he
has read the Lisbon Treaty. Heknows perfectly wellthat the proposed protocol is
meangingless. He understands,too,the magnitude of what is at stake. This is his
once-in-a-lifetime chance to side with the peoples against the apparatchiks, to
be a hero on a continent where they are in short supply. As President, he has an
unambiguous veto over foreign treaties. And he takes seriously his oath of
office, wherein he swore to uphold the constitution of the republic.

The rest of Europe has already written Mr Klaus off, but I shall do him the
courtesy of not taking him for granted (see here). If you're one of the many
journalists trying to get a statement out of me today, or one of the many UKIP
supporters posting comments on these blogs, I'm afraid you'll have to be
patient. I have argued for 20 years that there must be a British referendum on
the EU, and that remains my view. I strongly support the Conservative policy of
a referendum on Lisbon - and I know for a fact that David Cameron has been
active and sincere in trying to secure one: the idea that he was secretly
relieved by the Irish "Yes" vote, or that he inwardly hopes that President Klaus
will back down, is nonsense.

Neither he nor I will anticipate the behaviour of the Head of State of a
friendly country. Mr Klaus may yet be overborne by the EU's hideous strength.
But, for now, he deserves our respect.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                November 1, 2009
                                 First Edition

Cameron will come unstuck on EU fudge;
With the Lisbon treaty set to be ratified, Conservative promises of a referendum
and renegotiation will soon prove unachievable

BYLINE: Chris Bryant

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1028 words


There is a deep and deliberate double deception at the heart of the Conservative
position on Europe. David Cameron has been refusing for months to come clean on
Europe - but he's about to be found out.

Such is the visceral anti-Europeanism in his party, ever since he became leader
of the Tories he's had to keep on suggesting that he would hold a special
referendum on the Lisbon treaty, even if it has been ratified and brought into
force. But now the moment is virtually upon us, with the Czech Republic set to
ratify it, Mr Cameron will have to come clean. I would bet my bottom dollar he
won't guarantee a referendum on Lisbon.

Instead he will almost certainly unveil a heavily disguised fudge of a promise,
with a guarantee that any future treaty that would cede powers away from the UK
would be subject to a referendum. It'll be a remarkably hollow promise.

After all, there are no plans anywhere in Europe to start drafting new European
treaties. But Mr Cameron hopes he'll appease the Tory and UKIP right. He hopes
people will blink and not spot the sleight of hand. I very much doubt he'll
succeed, and his fudge will melt under heated sceptic scrutiny.

But the other deception Mr Cameron wants to get away with is his constant use of
deliberately vague hints that sound tough but guarantee nothing. So he suggests
they would renegotiate the treaty, but he must know this is impossible. Any
treaty negotiation requires the unanimous agreement of all 27 governments - and
every other government in Europe is absolutely clear they do not want another
round of treaty talks. Indeed the one thing that unites every government and
every political party in Europe (apart from the Tories) is that they do not want
any more treaty negotiations and will do all in their power to block them.

Quite rightly they want to get on with the real issues that matter to European
citizens - jobs, industry, competition with China and India, and tackling
international crime. A Tory government determined to secure yet another new
treaty would have to spend vast amounts of political capital needlessly trying
to force the 26 other countries into doing a special new deal. What would they
offer France, Spain, Germany, Poland and Italy?

There is an additional irony. Under the Lisbon treaty it is even more difficult
to renegotiate the European treaties. The European Parliament now has a blocking
power and can insist on a full-blown treaty convention, which would take years
to complete. Since Mr Cameron has walked away from the mainstream in the
European Parliament by abandoning the EPP grouping, he has next to no friends
who would vote his way. So a renegotiation is a virtual impossibility and
threatening it would simply set up a fruitless war with Europe that would be
doomed to failure.

Mr Cameron also coyly intimates he would "repatriate powers to the UK", with a
nod towards the social chapter. Again he flatters to deceive. Quite simply, the
social chapter doesn't exist any more; elements like the right to paid leave and
maternity pay are embedded parts of the single market now, scattered across
several treaty clauses.

Any attempt to opt out of these provisions would rightly be seen by Paris and
Berlin as an attempt to dismantle the common market and undermine the union.
Leave aside the fact that I believe these measures are an important part of
being a fair and competitive economy, the uncomfortable truth for Mr Cameron is
that if he tried unilaterally to opt out, the European Court of Justice would
immediately decide that the UK was in contravention of its treaty obligations.
Mr Cameron would have set us on the path towards Britain leaving the EU, or
being thrown out.

Already Tory isolation is damaging British influence. The Tories have abandoned
the European People's Party group - the largest group in the European Parliament
- and set up their own hand-picked group. The trouble is threefold. First,
British businesses now have no direct access to the largest group in the
Parliament. Second, the Conservatives are in a group of right-wing extremists
with very dubious pasts, a matter which has already brought British conservatism
into disrepute. And third, because a grouping has to have MEPs from seven
countries and four of the countries represented in Mr Cameron's new group are
solo figures from their country, the group would collapse if any one of them
chose to leave. So Mr Cameron is completely in hock to the whimsy of four MEPs.

It is easy to point to the failings of the EU, but pursuing the British interest
does not mean macho posturing. Our membership of the union is vital to our
economic future. The single market has given British people the freedom to trade
and work in the largest market in the world. That has meant three million extra
jobs and annual exports of £370bn. Half the UK's inward investment comes from
the EU, rising from £16bn to £106.5bn. British businesses don't want their
futures put in peril by a reckless Tory policy of European wrangling. The head
of the British Chambers of Commerce has said that Mr Cameron's policy "could do
significant damage to British business interests". This is a warning that should
not go unheeded.

We also have to ensure that the EU plays a far more effective role on the world
stage. There are many global issues where a united EU voice added to ours will
deliver real benefits to the UK. Last week the debate was about climate change,
but I would add the Middle East peace process, Afghanistan and Pakistan, Russia
and relations with the growing giants of India, China and Brazil.

But all of that requires a European Union that has actively decided not to spend
its every waking hour arguing about the internal architecture of the treaties,
but deliberately focusing on enhancing the prosperity and security of its
citizens. In the end, that's the greatest Tory deception - to suggest that
another bout of treaty negotiations would serve Britain or Europe well. The
choice for Britain, and for Europe, is simple. Help the EU, with Britain at its
heart, be a real leader on the world stage; or become spectators in a G2 world
shaped by the US and China.

Chris Bryant is Europe minister

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 1, 2009

Morse or Blair? Now that's a tricky one

BYLINE: David Mitchell

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 993 words


The remote control is living on borrowed time, says the head of Microsoft UK.
He's convinced that within a few years "smart" televisions will know what we
want to watch from voice commands, past viewing preferences and even facial
expressions. They'll select the perfect programme because they'll be able to
gauge our mood.

This technology could save a million relationships. Gone will be the days of
having to notice a partner's grievance from awkward silences or
passive-aggressive grunts. Spotting Argumental on the screen will tell you all
you need to know. The question: "Did you have a good day at work?" will be
rendered obsolete when, as soon as your loved one enters the room, the telly
switches to The Nazis: A Warning from History

Great, but I'm not sure it will improve our viewing pleasure. I basically always
want to watch Inspector Morse. There's no mood I'm ever in for which a skilfully
conceived murder conundrum, beautifully filmed in my home town and featuring a
grumpy, real ale lover, is not the perfect complement. I've wanted to watch
Inspector Morse all the time ever since I first saw it, before which I wanted to
watch Miss Marple all the time. And the fact that these shows have recently
respectively been sequelised and remade suggests that I'm not the only one with
unadventurous tastes.

Unfortunately, I've long since watched every episode of Inspector Morse. What
will my poor television do? It'll correctly analyse a Morse mood, switch to
whichever channel is currently showing it and then be at a loss to explain my
growing consternation and boredom as I get to the bit of The Dead of Jericho
that I can actually recite off by heart. How will it cope as its processor
converts my facial expression to a binary formula of rejection? "What have I
done wrong?" its circuits will demand. "And when will I be a real boy?"

Slavishly desperate to please, it will scratch around for something similar to
resurrect my good opinion - Morse methadone such as Midsomer Murders or A Touch
of Frost, or other programmes starring John Thaw. I'll end the evening furiously
banging the side of the set with my shoe as it flicks frantically between The
Sweeney and Home to Roost, like a tearful wife offering to undergo cosmetic
surgery if her husband will stop his affair.

What it won't do is take me out of my comfort zone. It won't bully me into
finally removing the Cellophane from my Sopranos box set or insist that, once a
year at least, I watch something with subtitles.

One of the advantages of television used to be that it could exploit our
passivity to broaden our minds. You'd watch something new because there was
nothing else on and you couldn't be bothered to go outside or, pre-remote
control, get up to change the channel or, post-remote control, change the
channel.

Nowadays, there's always something else on, and there's an internet of
entertainment to choose from as well, and soon we won't have to lift a finger to
exercise that choice. It'll be done by a machine pandering to our preconceptions
and, as a result, we'll only ever see derivative programmes - meretricious
copies of previous hits. All that wonderful original programming we enjoy today,
such as Ashes to Ashes, Holby Blue and that new version of Emma, will become a
thing of the past.

The last thing we need is any device that further weakens the distinction
between what we feel we ought to want and what we actually do want, that
undermines our feelings of guilt at consuming the comforting and crap rather
than the thought-requiring, difficult but potentially more rewarding, like an
irresponsible mum telling her kids that Mint Aero counts as greens.

I'm not preaching: I never watch the documentaries, read the books, eat the food
or go to the plays I feel I ought to - but I still feel I ought to, so all is
not lost. The first step to recovery is realising you've got a problem. I'm
hoping, with Homer Simpson, that it's also the last.

Caring about Europe is something else I feel I ought to do. I read a lot of
newspapers, but I can seldom wrench my eyes on to articles about the EU. They
slide rebelliously on to something more interesting like an advert for life
insurance or a picture of Ed Balls. I strain again desperately, like Superman
trying to put a kryptonite suitcase into an overhead locker: "Must care. . .
about. . . Lisbon Treaty! Got to develop. . . opinion on democratic. . .
deficit!" But to no avail.

I know it's all very important, I just don't feel it is. When someone moans
about Brussels, I nod along seriously, thinking: "I bet it's fine really. I
don't give a shit." Whereas when a pro-European talks about the benefits of
European integration, I think: "I bet it's not that great. I don't give a shit."

I reckon I'm not alone. Only a minority behave as if the EU matters and most of
them hate it. From Eurosceptic Tories, through Ukip to the BNP, the people who
frequently mention Europe are the ones who find it annoying. It's doing
something to them they loathe. I'm not sure what it's doing to me, but I don't
think I mind, largely because those who do generally seem like twats.

The irony of the BNP's Question Time appearance-enabling success is that it came
from a European election, an event most of us treat as an irrelevance and whose
very existence they're against. And they won't even get to make friends with
many antisemitic MEPs because the Tories have got there first.

When it looked like Tony Blair was likely to become council president, for the
first time in years my EU apathy started to waver. At least it put a famous name
in some of the headlines, like a bankable if ageing film star in a movie about
traffic-calming measures, or a tired TV format rehashed with celebrities - it's
not the EU, it's Strictly the EU. The new, smart TV would understand it too:
"You voted Labour in 1997 and series-linked Rick Stein's French Odyssey - so
here's Blair's inauguration live from Strasbourg!"

Illustration by David Foldvari


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 140 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                November 1, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tax exiles must be mad, says betting tycoon

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 570 words


A MULTI-MILLIONAIRE businessman has criticised tycoons who leave the UK to save
tax, declaring it "mad" to put money before country.

Stuart Wheeler, who made his fortune through spread betting, questioned the
priorities of the super-rich who move to tax havens simply to preserve their
vast fortunes.

"I think it's pretty mad to go and live somewhere you don't want to be, purely
for tax reasons, when you have already got a lot of money," he said.

Wheeler made his comments after deliberating over whether it would be possible
to remain in Britain while moving his fortune offshore to escape Gordon Brown's
new 50% rate of tax on incomes over £150,000, due to be introduced next year. He
has concluded the arrangement would not be worthwhile.

Wheeler's determination to live in Britain follows his expulsion earlier this
year from the Tories for donating £100,000 to the UK Independence party, which
campaigns to loosen Britain's ties with Europe. He had been a strong critic of
David Cameron's European policies.

City figures have warned that Brown's tax rise could lead to an exodus of the
superrich when it is introduced next year. Among those who have already
threatened to leave are the artist Tracey Emin, Sir Michael Caine and Hugh
Osmond, the insurance tycoon. Guy Hands, the private equity financier, moved to
Guernsey earlier this year to protect his estimated £200m fortune.

Wheeler said he would never leave the country he loves simply to save money. "It
seems to me that if you are pretty rich, the number one thing you would want to
do with your money is use it to live in the country you want to be in," he said.

Wheeler, who lives in a Jacobean castle in Kent with his wife Tessa, a
photographer, said some "highly talented people" younger than himself would be
tempted to become tax exiles when the new rate was introduced.

Wheeler made his fortune as the founder of the spreadbetting company IG Index
and is a keen gambler. He played bridge with Lord Lucan two days before his
disappearance in 1974 and is a regular competitor on the international poker
circuit. His daughter, Jacquetta Wheeler, is a successful model.

In the past he has quoted the value of his shares at £80m-£90m, although more
recent estimates of his personal wealth are half this figure. Wheeler, 74, was
an influential funder of the Conservatives for many years. In 2001 he made the
largest single donation to a political party in Britain when he gave £5m towards
the election campaign.

Earlier this year, when he was exploring how to minimise his exposure to the new
tax rate, Wheeler considered moving his fortune into offshore bonds, a form of
investment held overseas but not subject to British income tax. He has concluded
it would be difficult to make a significant saving without falling foul of the
taxman.

"I considered the matter very carefully because of the new tax coming into
force," he said.

"The straightforward way of using an offshore bond appears to be completely
unobjectionable as far as the Treasury is concerned but, on weighing up the pros
and cons, it seemed to me that it was likely to cost me money rather than save
me money."

Leavers

Guy Hands Private equity Worth: £100m Where: Guernsey

Lord Foster Architecture Worth: £170m Where: Switzerland

Lewis Hamilton Motor racing Worth: £25m Where: Switzerland

Paula Radcliffe Athletics Worth: up to £5m Where: Monaco

Sir Philip Green Retailing Worth: £3.8 billion Where: Monaco

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
