
                               1 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 31, 2009 Friday

Notebook;
Has the;
Dark Lord finally had a good idea?

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 596  words


It's a rare occasion indeed when I'm enthusiastic not just about an American
import, but one enthusiastically endorsed by the Dark Lord himself. Yet Lord
Mandelson's suggestion - hastily shot down by his boss - that Gordon Brown could
be the first prime minister to agree to a televised debate with an Opposition
leader in the run-up to the election seemed like a great idea.

Not only would it be staged away from the artificial huff and bluff of the
Commons, and the suffocating control of the party whips, but it would also last
for a full hour, in contrast to the brief and heavily rehearsed exchanges across
the Dispatch Box.

But my ardour - as with so many other New Labour ideas - faded even more quickly
than Mandelson's original hair colour. Yes, millions of Americans watch the
jousts between their presidential hopefuls, but there is a big difference
between us and them. It's called Calamity Clegg.

Just where would the broadcasters put the Lib Dem leader? The producers of
Spitting Image would have had no difficulty: they would have shoved him into the
top pocket of whichever of Brown or Cameron he thought most likely to cut a deal
in a hung parliament. But the real Clegg would not prove so malleable.

It gets worse, though. Cross the border into Wales, and Rhodri Morgan, the First
Minister, would be demanding his 60 minutes of fame - and that would only cover
his introductory remarks, given that Morgan makes that old windbag Lord Kinnock
of Bedwellty seem positively concise.

Then there are the Scots. Can you imagine it? Alex Salmond pontificating in a
kilt, or Annabel Goldie, the Scottish Tory leader, wreathed in yards of tartan?
Even if you limit things to Westminster, don't imagine for a minute that Nigel
Farage, the Ukip leader, wouldn't demand more airtime after his triumph in the
European elections. And then the BNP. Oh please, not that.

Yes, Cameron and Brown loathe the sight of each other, which would make a
televised showdown more watchable. A debate would also let voters in on a
campaign which too often seems to be going on behind a partition. But in truth,
just like PMQs, presidential debates are remembered for the soundbites and the
superficialities, such as Richard Nixon's sweaty face and five o'clock shadow.

In other words, I should have known better than to think Lord Mandelson was
speaking sense.

* Passing Trafalgar Square in a taxi at around 6am the other day, I noticed the
latest addition to the fourth plinth: an overweight, hairy man, dressed in a
tight-fitting Lurex frock, with suspenders, stilettos, and a long wig, barely
moving his feet out of time to a cracked record that sounded like Maria Callas.

The driver stopped the car so that I could observe the performance's solitary
admirer. He was a drunk, holding on for dear life to his bottle, and swaying
either to the music or due to the effects of the alcohol. It didn't take me long
to decide not to come back for the next performance.

* The roads recently seem less congested, and the Tubes emptier. I thought it
had to be because we were entering the holiday season, but perhaps it's because
the commuters I usually encounter have been listening to the radio station I
tuned into the other day.

Twice an hour, an Orwellian public health announcement was broadcast - paid for
by us, of course - giving advice on what to do if you suspect you have
contracted swine flu. To paraphrase: if you sneeze, or have a sore throat or
temperature, stay in bed, call the doctor, and don't go to work. Have we gone
completely mad? No wonder the NHS and economy are in such trouble.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Presidential-style posturing has no place in politics;
LEADER

BYLINE: Leo McKinstry Daily Express columnist

SECTION: LEADER; 10

LENGTH: 869  words


LIKE a politburo boss from an old communist regime Gordon Brown is instinctively
suspicious of democracy. Throughout his career he has run away from elections.
Through a mixture of bullying and manipulation he ensured there was no internal
party contest when he succeeded Tony Blair as prime minister in 2007.

Nor has he any ability as a communicator. His press conferences are an
embarrassment, full of evasions and distortions. The same is true of his leaden
performances at Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons, while his notorious
recent YouTube appearance, complete with creepy grin, haggard face and robotic
delivery, hovered disturbingly between unintentional comedy and something from a
horror movie.

Brown is the kind of politician who prefers to spout fabricated statistics than
to engage in public debate. Given these epic failings it may seem extraordinary
that Downing Street has indicated this week, after prompting from his unofficial
deputy Peter Mandelson, that Brown might be willing to hold a live televised
debate with Cameron during the general election campaign.

Such a move would mark a major change in our politics.

For decades it has been one of the rituals of our unwritten constitution for the
leader of the Opposition to demand a debate at election time, only for the
incumbent prime minister to reject the proposal.

The public justification for this stance is that Britain has a parliamentary not
a presidential system with the public electing a governing party rather than an
individual head of state, unlike France or the USA.

IN PRIVATE, however, sitting prime ministers know that usually they have nothing
to gain by partici pating in a debate with their rivals.

Such a format puts their opponents on an equal footing, removes the comforting
trappings of office, leaves them vulnerable to the unexpected question and
carries the risk that one disastrous mistake could derail their entire campaign.

That is precisely what happened in America in 1976 when the Democrat Jimmy
Carter was running against the incumbent Republican president Gerald Ford. For
months it had been an extremely close contest but then, in a televised debate,
Ford made a howling error on foreign policy, claiming that there was "no Soviet
domination of Eastern Europe". His shallowness was exposed.

Carter leapt ahead in the polls and eventually won.

It is a sign of how low Brown has sunk that he is now on the verge of dropping
his long-held objections to a televised debate.

His reputation in tatters, his ratings plummeting, he now grabs desperately at
anything that might revive his fortunes.

Faced with the prospect of a humiliating landslide, almost 20 per cent behind in
the current opinion polls, Brown may feel he has nothing to lose.

Yet in practice a televised political extravaganza of this sort will do little
either to reinvigorate British politics or to inform the voters. It will be just
another noisy monument to political self-importance, full of spin and frenzied
analysis within Westminster but signifying nothing to the wider electorate. Its
real purpose will be to feed the vanity of the political elite rather than
promote genuine discussion.

Contrary to all the excitement among broadcasters it is certain that any
televised debate will be completely unenlightening. In the age of media
manipulation and 24-hour news, politicians are now so used to speaking rehearsed
lines in front of the cameras that it is unlikely they will make the kind of
gaffe that Gerald Ford perpetrated in 1976. Even Brown, so hopeless in
Parliament, will just bulldoze his way through his script written by Mandelson,
ignoring questions that he does not want to answer. Cameron, a natural on TV,
will no doubt be as smoothly eloquent as usual but his assured performance will
tell us little about his policies.

Then there is the problem of the format. A debate between only Brown and Cameron
would be unfair on the other parties who commanded almost a third of the vote at
the last election in 2005. Yet the inclusion of Nick Clegg, Leader of the
Liberal Democrats, would be unjust to UKIP, which has outperformed Clegg's party
recently.

Far from being a groundbreaking move a televised debate would just reinforce the
arrogance of the smug, narrow political establishment. That is why the
metropolitan broadcasters are so keen on the idea.

YOU can be sure that there will be no questions about endin g mass immigration,
restorin g capital punishment, slashin g welfare or withdrawing from the EU, all
policies favoured by a majority of the British public.

A televised debate will also accelerate the slide towards a presidential system,
dominated by an all-powerful prime minister. That is not what is meant by
parliamentary democracy. That is why we do not have national elections when a
ruling party's leadership changes hands and why the premier's home in London is
a modest red-brick terraced house and not an ornate palace like the White House
in Americ a or the Elysée in France.

The House of Commons, the cockpit of our democracy, has already been damaged
enough by recent events and our continuing surrender to the EU.

With all its presidential pretensions a televised debate will only further
weaken its standing.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEAD TO HEAD: A Brown/Cameron televised debate would be just a stunt
Pictures: GETTY and REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Labour's £34m fundraising puts Tories in the shade;
Conservatives are biggest spenders as Brown's party uses cash to pay off debts

BYLINE: Michael Savage POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 503 words


THE CONSERVATIVES out-spent Labour by more than £5m last year as Gordon Brown's
party was forced to put the breaks on campaigning to deal with its debts,
figures revealed yesterday.

Detailed accounts from all parties, revealed by the Electoral Commission, showed
that the Tories engaged in a £31.9m spending spree last year, almost all of the
money they raised and well above the £26.2m spent by Labour.

However, Labour managed to raise more money than its rivals. Its income hit
£34m, compared to the £32.4m raised by the Conservatives. Labour benefited from
a £4.6m windfall after a court ruling allowed it to claim back VAT and interest
dating back to 1977.

But Labour used its higher income to shore up its significant debts ahead of the
next general election. It cut its total outstanding debts by £1.2m last year and
also removed a £3.5m slice of its outstanding loans. While it paid off loans
worth around £1m, £2m lent by the former science minister, Lord Sainsbury, was
converted into donations, along with £300,000 originally lent to the party by
curry tycoon, Sir Gulam Noon.

In contrast, the Tories chose to spend their money on the campaign trail,
including Boris Johnson's mayoral campaign and its successful bid to win the
Crewe and Nantwich by-election in May 2008. It meant that the party was only
able to chip £250,000 off its debts, which now stand at £7.5m. Tory chairman
Eric Pickles defended the spending splurge, arguing that it had helped his
party's "electoral resurgence".

The Tories' income fell by more than £1m last year, though Mr Pickles said that
donations had held up well, despite the recession. The party's treasurers also
noted the need to diversify away from a few, big donors. They are working on a
plan to copy Barrack Obama's successful fund-raising method of using the
internet to attract numerous, but much smaller donations.

Labour's income from affiliations, including trade unions, was up slightly to
£8m in 2008. However, there was evidence that the party was being hit by falling
membership and private donations. Membership subs were down 11 per cent to £3.9m
and donations sank from £11.2m to £9.5m.

The Liberal Democrats appeared to be struggling to cover the costs of their
campaigning as its spending outstripped income by more than £500,000 last year.
When its pension fund was factored in, Nick Clegg's party made a loss of
£670,000. It has eaten away at the party's reserves, which have now fallen to
£460,000 from more than £1.1m in 2007. Its treasurer, Duncan Greenland, admitted
that with a general election looming, it was "vital to build the party's
fund-raising capacity".

Party income... ... and outgoings

* The Tories spent £31.9m last year, having raised a total of £32.4m

* Labour's income was £34m last year. The party spent £26.2m

* The Liberal Democrats had an income of £5.5m but spent £6m. Its reserves more
than halved to £460,000

* The Greens' income was £546,000 in 2008, with the party spending at £541,000

* UKIP's income fell to £602,000. It spent £589,000

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UNION JACKASS;
Home Sec takes our flag OFF the ID card

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


HOME Secretary Alan Johnson was slammed last night for axing the Union Flag from
new ID cards.

The move was ordered to avoid upsetting groups who may not identify with the UK
symbol, officials admitted.

Earlier trial versions of the card had carried the Union Flag.

Mr Johnson unveiled the latest design in Manchester yesterday - as he insisted
the controversial ID project is still alive.

But Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling accused ministers of lacking pride in
the nation's flag.

He stormed: "If the Government don't even have enough pride in our national flag
to put it on an ID card then they really are out of touch with the national
mood." David Simpson, of the democratic unionist party, said: "It's a prime
example of political correctness gone mad and the weak grip on reality that this
government seems to possess."

The Home Office said the "identity rights" of nationalists living in Northern
Ireland could be offended by the Union Flag.

The card DOES carry an image of Irish symbol the shamrock.

A statement said: "While some symbols have been included within the design to
indicate the document has been issued by the UK Government, we have sought to
design features which could reflect all parts of the United Kingdom - such as
the inclusion of the shamrock to represent Ireland."

It added: "We have sought to avoid symbols such as flags." Under the Good Friday
Agreement, residents of Northern Ireland can claim Irish, British or dual
nationality.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage applauded the decision not to put the
EU flag on the card but said the Union flag should be displayed.

He said: "I'm appalled that they seem to be ashamed of our own flag. Flags and
other symbols do matter." Anyone living in Greater Manchester will be able to
apply for the £30 card from next year. But it will NOT be compulsory and the
Tories have vowed to cancel the scheme if they win the next election.

The card carries the holder's name, picture, date of birth, sex and signature.
It also states the carrier's nationality, where it was issued and an expiry
date.

A chip embedded in the back holds a digital image of the holder's face and
fingerprints.

The front displays the royal crest as well as the thistle, the rose, the
shamrock and the daffodil to represent the four parts of the UK.

Last night the Home Office spokesman insisted: "The card represents all the
nations of the UKi and the design reflects themes of Britishness and aspects of
UK history."

g-pascoe-watson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Criticised ... Johnson
Old design ... trial version of the identity card showed a Union Flag
Gone ... flag has been removed from latest ID card, unveiled yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

Cameron is likely to win, but don't expect a Conservative government;
Tory silence on the 50p tax rate, Europe and private schools shows a party too
timid to achieve anything in office, says Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1170  words


A Conservative Party besotted by its own image has just gone off on its summer
holidays swollen with triumph. As the Norwich North by-election showed, Labour
is on the canvas and staring, its opponents feel, at an obliteration rather than
a defeat. The Tories know that, should such a debacle occur, the electorate that
causes it will, for once, eschew the British tradition of sympathy for the
underdog. The new government would arrive on a tide of goodwill that would make
Tony Blair's in 1997 seem a puddle by comparison.

Yet the moral and intellectual flaws in Mr Cameron's leadership suggest,
equally, that the honeymoon would be short, and the struggle thereafter long and
not inevitably successful. With almost every statement he makes, he seems
determined to alienate those who want to vote for him.

His handling of his own party, as the expenses scandal illustrated, is sectarian
and rooted in cronyism. These problems, and the greatest one of all - that he
has no policies worth speaking of - are concealed by Labour's disaster. He must
pray that the economy does not pick up, and that Alan Johnson is not catapulted
into Downing Street, for either of those things might just check his otherwise
jet-propelled progress to the highest office.

The fear that besets the Conservative Party, or rather the strategists that sift
the findings of focus groups and present them to the teenagers around Mr
Cameron, is of being seen to favour what we used to call the party's core vote.
I say "used to'' advisedly, for hundreds of thousands of them are predisposed to
vote Ukip if a candidate is available: and in most places at the next general
election one will be. So, briefings have suggested that tax credits for the
middle classes might go. The 50 pence tax band will stay.

Not a word has been said in defence of the private schools since the Charity
Commission's assault on them. Cutting public spending is a subject treated like
a bad smell at a cocktail party. The victory in Norwich North is special not
because of any assertion of political principle, but because the victrix is a
woman who went to a comprehensive school and has, it seems, only just left it.
This is a party crippled by the pursuit of consensus, slavish to tokenism and
heading for what might most politely be called the mother of all muddles should
it achieve power. Thanks to Labour's failure, the Conservatives have probably
done enough to win next year; they are nowhere near the point at which they can
do anything useful with that victory.

The 50 per cent tax band exemplifies the political and intellectual vacuity of
the Cameron way. The Taxpayers' Alliance, which represents the interests not of
bloated plutocrats but of the majority who work hard and pay increasingly heavy
taxes, argued this week that it would harm enterprise and therefore employment.
Its disincentive effects would be felt by people who could never dream of
earning enough to pay it. Many liable will find perfectly legal ways to avoid
it. Many Conservatives admit it will cost more to levy than it will raise, and
that it is an act of spite by Labour against Conservative voters. So why, given
its pointlessness and the damage it will do, do Mr Cameron and George Osborne,
his economically illiterate shadow chancellor, persist in refusing to scrap it?

The answer, a senior colleague of theirs tells me, is that to do so would look
as though they were defending the tribal interests of the rich. It is apparently
beyond the wit of either of them to argue that the tax will raise less than it
costs and will harm business, and that the jobs of people on low incomes will be
imperilled. Why is that so hard?

The party knows this is drivel, and seeks ever more preposterous means to
justify it: one of its spin doctors said last Friday that the retention of the
50p band would serve to remind people how bad Labour had been at managing the
economy. I am surprised, on that basis, that we did not keep Belsen open for a
few years after the last war, just in case people ever forgot how evil Hitler
was.

This sense of class-ridden, guilt-fuelled caution is demonstrated by the party's
refusal to engage on so many issues that burn in the hearts of their would-be
voters. Mr Cameron can't talk about the wrongness of excessive public spending
and the over-large state, because that would mean having to sack some of Gordon
Brown's clientele, which would scupper any chance of their voting for Mr
Cameron. He can't stick up for the private schools and the superb job they do
for this country, because that would seem to alienate the 93 per cent of
children whose families can't afford to use them. He can't stick up for grammar
schools, because that would alienate those in the 93 per cent whose children
aren't bright enough to get into them.

He can't stick up for those who fear the effects of the Treaty of Lisbon by
offering to repeal it if it is enforced by the time he comes to office, because
of the ructions that would cause among the Euro-fanatic minority. He won't, with
any clarity, defend country sports, or the countryside, for fear of alienating
those who don't take part in them, or those who don't live there (his defenders
say he will repeal the hunting ban: I'll believe it when I see it). I am
struggling, I am afraid, to work out what would be different about a Cameron
government as opposed to a Brown one.

I know I am not alone in this: many of you write to me every week to say the
same thing. There is particular anger among the middle classes about a man with
private wealth failing to understand the impact of high taxes on those less
blessed than he is, or refusing to defend the struggling private schools that so
many of them send children or grandchildren to.

Some of you cling to the hope that Mr Cameron knows what must be done, and is
sparing details of the strong medicine until in power. Given that he has never
exhibited the slightest scintilla of principle at any time during his political
career, I cannot imagine what the evidence is for that. Some of you also write
and berate me for attacking Mr Cameron's politics, apparently confusing the
roles of newspaper columnist and propagandist. For the avoidance of doubt, I am
the former. I want a Conservative government as much as any of you; I just
happen to doubt that one is on offer.

What I fear most, as I watch this circus of gestures and promises, is a re-run
of the Heath government. We are watching the preparations not for office, but
for an orgy of managerialism. It could even be worse than 1970-74, for the
economic situation was (at the start) nothing like so bad, and Heath did have
around him people of sense and experience with some bottle-age on them. Mr
Cameron may not need to improve his position in terms of winning the war; he
still has time to improve it in terms of winning the peace that will follow. If
he persists in seeking to emulate the most saccharine and profligate aspects of
New Labour, his premiership will be a wretched one indeed: and not just for him.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

City losses blow £35bn hole in tax revenues

BYLINE: Elena Moya

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 394 words


The tax contribution from City firms has plunged by half over the past two
years, following multibillion-pound losses suffered by banks in the credit
crunch.

City firms contributed £32.5bn to the tax coffers in the year to March 31, 2009,
it emerged yesterday - less than half the £67.8bn they brought in two years
earlier.

The amount generated this year is still enough to pay for the entire public
security budget - including police, fire brigade, law courts and prisons - or a
sizeable chunk of the £79.9bn a year spent on education.

The government is to disclose the latest contribution from City firms in a
response to a parliamentary question from Malcolm Pearson in the House of Lords.
Pearson, a member of the UK Independence Party, raised the question to highlight
the contribution of Britain's financial services to the economy, he told the
Guardian.

City employees have been dismayed by the recent increase in the top rate of
personal income tax and by public scrutiny of their bonuses. However, hedge
funds and private equity firms have found support from the government and the
City of London in their attempts to soften a planned European Union directive
that would have imposed tougher regulation. Lord Myners, the City minister, has
lobbied in Brussels to change the directive that could have made it more
difficult for London to retain its role as the European centre for buyout and
hedge funds.

"The taxes that hedge funds pay are very significant - the government needs to
have a closer look in terms of the contribution that hedge funds make to the
UK," said Raymond O'Neill, a founding member of Kinetic Partners, a hedge fund
advisory firm.

Over the past year, his firm has advised numerous hedge funds on relocation,
mostly to Switzerland, he said. He added there were "considerable" numbers of
other funds looking at the question.

At the peak of the market, in 2007, City firms contributed about 13.9% of the
total UK tax take, according to a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the City
of London Corporation, released in February this year. The contribution plunged
to 7.5% in 2009, according to Guardian calculations.

The City employed 324,000 people in 2008, some 29,000 less than the previous
year, according to the City of London.

32.5

Tax revenue from City firms for 2008-9 tax year was £32.5bn - at the height of
the boom in 2006-7

it was £67.8bn

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

Worth a look - six political articles we like

LENGTH: 492 words

ABSTRACT

On opinion polls, cash for the Tories, Mandelson for PM, a Cameron government,
Ukip, and Newsnight

FULL TEXT

A  brings good news for Tory leader David Cameron.

The Tories have opened a commanding 18-point lead over Labour, enough to put
David Cameron into Downing Street with a general election majority of more than
150, according to the latest ComRes poll.

The survey puts the Conservatives on 42% (up six points on last month), Labour
on 24% (down one), the Liberal Democrats on 18% (down one) and other parties on
16% (down four, if still high).

The paper also reports  as firms vie for £4bn worth of contracts.

Britain's top accountancy firms are channelling resources and staff worth
hundreds of thousands of pounds into the Conservative party ahead of an
anticipated Tory government after the general election.

Analysis by the Independent has revealed that leading companies including
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and KPMG, have given the Tories nearly £500,000
since the start of last year as they attempt to build ties with the party that
has a double-digit lead in the polls.

The .

Wealthy business people will refuse to donate to Labour for as long as Gordon
Brown remains party leader, according to the chairman of the Labour Finance &
Industry Group. Peter Slowe, who heads the group - designed to build bridges
between Labour and business - has called for Lord Mandelson to take over as
prime minister. Mr Slowe, a lifelong party member, told the Financial Times that
Mr Brown should step aside in the autumn to make way for the business secretary
because Labour's prospects were otherwise grim.

In the  predicts that Cameron will win the next election but warns readers not
to expect a Conservative government.

I am struggling, I am afraid, to work out what would be different about a
Cameron government as opposed to a Brown one. I know I am not alone in this:
many of you write to me every week to say the same thing.

On  notes that Ukip's clever communications strategy in the 4 June elections and
the Norwich byelection is still largely in place.

Unlike most of of the other parties a key part of Ukip's communications strategy
at both the 4 June elections and ahead of last week in Norwich has been the
heavy reliance on paid-for billboard advertising ...

Could the bus posters still be in place at the general election and if so could
they be helping to keep the UKIP numbers high? Maybe.

While  between BBC political editor Nick Robinson and Mandelson:

The clash between Nick Robinson and Peter Mandelson was a joy to behold.
Mandelson just about kept his calm, but I have rarely seen Nick Robinson be so
aggressive in his questioning ...

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Tories on course for majority of 152 seats at next election;
Leading Labour figures likely to lose their seats, as poll shows Cameron surge

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 897 words


THE TORIES have opened a commanding 18-point lead over Labour, enough to put
David Cameron into Downing Street with a general election majority of more than
150, according to the latest ComRes poll for The Independent.

The survey puts the Conservatives on 42 per cent (up six points on last month),
Labour on 24 per cent (down one), the Liberal Democrats on 18 per cent (down
one) and other parties on 16 per cent (down four, if still high).

The Tory surge will deal a further blow to Labour morale after a torrid spell
for Gordon Brown which culminated in the party's heavy defeat in last week's
Norwich North by-election.

Repeated at a general election, the results would give Mr Cameron a Commons
majority of 152 and mean that many prominent Labour figures lose their
parliamentary seats.

The increase in the Conservative lead from 11 to 18 points since last month
suggests its strategy of stressing the need for spending cuts in the face of the
economic crisis is chiming with the public. It is also a setback for Mr Brown's
hopes of rebuilding Labour's popularity after seeing off a leadership coup and
bringing in reforms to the Commons after the expenses scandal.

The party's support has been mired in the low to mid 20s for months, with only
the slightest sign of recovery.

By contrast the Tories have achieved their highest level of support since April,
indicating that they have recovered from the impact of the disclosure of some of
their backbenchers' expenses claims. It is crucial for them to break through the
40-point mark to be on course for a convincing victory at a general election.

Backing for the Liberal Democrats remains broadly static, although the party
will argue that it is a high base from which to mount a general election
campaign, during the course of which its support tends to rise.

Reflecting widespread disillusionment for mainstream politicians, support for
other parties remains high among the electorate. Their 16 per cent backing
includes 8 per cent for the Green Party, 5 per cent for Ukip and 1 per cent for
the British National Party.

Mr Brown's woes are underlined by the finding that just 59 per cent of voters
who backed Labour at the last election still say they support the party. That
compares with 94 per cent of previous Tory voters who say they intend to support
Mr Cameron at the next election.

The Tory leader goes on holiday to France this week, leaving the shadow
Chancellor George Osborne and the shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague to
deputise for him.

The party plans a series of themed weeks - focusing on issues such as crime,
health and education - over the summer. Senior shadow ministers are also working
on a series of Green Papers designed to flesh out policies in the party's
general election manifesto. They have been asked to identify spending areas
where cash can be saved.

Despite the Tories' victory in Norwich North, the result carried some warning
signs for the party.

Its share of the vote there, at less than 40 per cent, was read as evidence of a
continuing lack of enthusiasm for the Tories despite the deep hostility to the
Government.

Mr Cameron has admitted his party has yet to "seal the deal" with the
electorate, and he wants to urgently deepen, as well as widen, Tory support.

Mr Brown, meanwhile, has also called for a flurry of government activity over
the summer to counter accusations that his administration is drifting.

Although he is nominally on holiday in Scotland, he is in daily contact with
Downing Street and has issued two press statements in the past two days.

His advisers hope that the Labour conference in September will enable him to get
back on the front foot, although continuing dismal poll ratings could reignite
mutterings against his leadership. For the moment, however, there is no sign of
any appetite among demoralised Labour MPs for reopening the leadership issue.
The launch of Labour's much-trumpeted national plan, "Building Britain's
Future", appears to have had little impact on the public.

Ministers are now pinning their hopes that glimmers of an end to the recession
will enable them to argue that Mr Brown put in place the building-blocks of
recovery and that the election of a Conservative government would threaten that.
One cabinet minister told The Independent: "We have to keep banging away at that
message. It is very hard going, but what's the alternative - give up and go
home?"

The Business Secretary Lord Mandelson conceded it would be tough for Labour to
win the next election, labelling them the "underdogs". Speaking on BBC2's
Newsnight last night he said the party would find it difficult to portray
themselves as "change-makers in British politics".

ComRes interviewed 1,008 adults on 24-26 July. Data was weighted to be
representative of all adults. Full details at www.comres.co.uk

How poll translates to election result

* GENERAL ELECTION forecasts are made by applying the shifts in party support in
opinion polls and applying them to the national political map. Today's ComRes
survey suggests a swing of some 10.5 per cent from Labour to the Conservatives.
Replicated nationally, that would produce a Parliament containing 401 Tories,
178 Labour MPs and 41 Liberal Democrats. David Cameron would preside over a
majority of 152. Cabinet ministers Jack Straw, Alistair Darling and Ben Bradshaw
would be among the Labour MPs given marching orders by the electorate.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday

Reply Letters and emails: Green strength

BYLINE: Cllr Rupert Read

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 100 words


Your leader (The message from Norwich North, 25 July) confuses the city of
Norwich with the constituency of Norwich North. The Greens are very strong in
Norwich. However, two-thirds of Norwich North was outside of the city in the
Broadlands suburbs, where we have comparatively little presence. Norwich North
was our best national byelection result ever. It's clear that the byelection was
another boost for ourselves and Ukip, and another bad day for the "big three"
parties in Westminster. Even the Conservatives lost 2,000 votes, compared to
their result in 2005.

Cllr Rupert Read

Norwich Green party

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 28, 2009 Tuesday 10:53 AM GMT

How should I behave when introduced to the BNP MEPs?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 235 words


People keep asking me how I will act when I first come face to face with the two
BNP Euro-MPs, Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons. Without giving the matter much
thought, I had been planning to treat them in the same way as I treat Labour,
LibDem or UKIP MEPs: civilly and correctly. Heaven knows I disagree with their
far-Left party. BNP activists, if their comments on my blog are anything to go
by, combine an extraordinary rudeness about everyone else with an utter
inability to accept the slightest criticism of their own behaviour. None the
less, democracy is democracy, and I have little time for politicians who try to
flaunt their niceness by refusing to deal with people who, whatever their
opinions, have been duly elected.

So what's the correct form? What do you do if you find yourself sharing a lift
with Brons or a car with Griffin? I spent this afternoon tramping around Kew
Gardens with my dear friend Tom and our families. Tom hasn't expressed a strong
political opinion in the 30 yearsI'veknown him. What did he reckon was the
proper etiquette? "Why don't you do this?" said Tom, clicking his heels together
and covering his upper lip with his forefinger while raising the other arm.

I now can't get the wretched picture out of my head. Like Basil Fawlty and
"don't mention the war", the more I try to dismiss the idea, the more it
consumes me. Help me, here, guys. What is the proper way to behave?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 27, 2009 Monday

Voters will see through Gordon's games

LENGTH: 570 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Montgomerie: Plans for electoral reform and EU referendums in the next
general election smack of desperation - and will fool no one

FULL TEXT

Once upon a time I feared that Gordon Brown might be a serious political
opponent for David Cameron. Before he became prime minister, I thought he might
appear heavyweight, serious and thoughtful to the electorate. All qualities
needed for these difficult times.

I now feel stupid for believing the message put out by  (for we now know that it
was him) that Brown would put an end to Tony Blair's era of spin. I say "stupid"
because all of his budgets contained sleights of hand. The devil was always
hidden in the detailed small print. We should all have known what was coming.

Brown appears incapable of learning from his biggest mistakes. He is at his
worst when he is scheming politically. He thought he was being clever when in
his final budget as chancellor he cut the standard rate of income tax in order
to wrongfoot Cameron. But the abolition of the 10p tax band was Brown's means to
finance that politically motivated tax cut. The fallout from the 10p fiasco
caused Brown's humiliation at the .

Brown's policy announcements are constantly motivated by political calculations.
Think of 42 days' pre-charge detention, the daily attendance payment for MPs
announced in that crazy  and part-privatisation of Royal Mail. These measures
have not succeeded in embarrassing the Conservative party, but have caused
serious difficulties for Brown within his own party and with the electorate.

I raise these issues now because of Brown's latest anti-Tory wheeze. Yesterday's
speculated that the Labour leader was thinking of holding a referendum on voting
reform on the same day as the next general election. The idea would be to
present Cameron as an opponent of democratic reform and modernisation. I've also
that Labour strategists are considering a second referendum to coincide with
polling day. The idea would be to hold a vote on Britain's membership of the EU
and hope that this would cause divisions in the Tory party and defectors to
Ukip.

These initiatives might just have worked in 2007 but voters see through the
Brown of 2009. They know that Britain is on the verge of a massive debt crisis.
From the Conservatives they hear increasing (if not sufficient) honesty about
the medicine that is going to be necessary to put things right. They don't hear
honesty from Brown. They hear the same political games. They know that Brown has
not been a supporter of constitutional reform for the last decade and will see
his newly discovered passion for voting reform as an attempt, on his political
deathbed, to change the rules of the game.

If Brown does pursue this course I predict three things. Labour MPs unhappy at a
move away from first-past-the-post - and there are still a large number of them
- will cause trouble for Brown on other issues. The Lords, because they were not
manifesto commitments, will resist what they will see as politically motivated
gambits. Third,  for focusing on these secondary matters rather than the
economic wolf at the door.

The  may once have worked with Labour on voting reform but Nick Clegg knows that
it would be politically toxic for him to ally himself with a very unpopular
prime minister and government.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              July 26, 2009 Sunday

THE WILLIAM REES-MOGG COLUMN

BYLINE: BIG NEWS FROM NORWICH: IDEAS WIN ELECTIONS

LENGTH: 973 words


One should not overelaborate the analysis of elections. The central question is
always the same. Who won? This is certainly true of the Norwich North
by-election, where Chloe Smith turned Dr Ian Gibson's Labour majority of 5,459
in 2005's General Election into a Conservative majority of 7,348.

Allowing for all the special circumstances, that is probably a good enough
result to produce a Conservative victory next year, both nationally and in
Norwich North. That is what matters; it is natural for the Conservatives to be
delighted with last Thursday's result as well as relieved. Miss Smith is more
than entitled to enjoy her triumph.

There are, however, some interesting undercurrents revealed in the Norwich North
results. First, there is one piece of excellent news, which I had not totally
expected. After its relatively successful result in the European Elections, the
British National Party (BNP) thought it a good idea to put up a candidate in
Norwich North. It was mistaken. The BNP was beaten into seventh place with just
941 votes.

That does not mean the BNP may not become a future threat, but it does show it
has limited appeal outside a few deprived areas. Seventh place in a byelection
is a joke position for a group claiming to be a national party.

The result put the Conservatives in first place, Labour second, the Liberal
Democrats third, the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) fourth and the
Greens fifth.

The result is disastrously bad for Labour. Undoubtedly, Labour voters resented
the brutal dismissal of Dr Gibson, a popular and independentminded local MP. The
Labour vote fell by 70 per cent from 21,097 in 2005 to 6,243 in 2009. The
opinion polls have been reporting that Labour support in the country has fallen
from 36 per cent at the last General Election to a figure in the mid-20s now.
Norwich has confirmed the opinion polls reflect reality.

The Conservatives won the seat largely because Labour has become so unpopular.
In 2005, the Tories came second in the Norwich seat with 15,638 votes; in last
week's by-election they came comfortably first with 13,591. The Tories would
have been able to win the seat simply by retaining the support of their past
voters, though they did well to increase their share of the votes.

The Lib Dems also had a lower vote in 2009 than they had had in 2005. At the
by-election they came third, but they had only 4,803 votes to the 7,616 they had
won in 2005. Although Labour did by far the worst, all three traditional parties
won fewer votes than they had won at the last General Election.

The three leading parties, taken together, saw their vote fall from 44,300 in
2005 to 26,700 in 2009. Resentment over parliamentary expenses may have partly
caused the decline, but an analysis of the vote for the new parties suggests
there is more to it than that.

Two of the new parties came just below the three traditional parties in the
ranking order. Both had performed reasonably well in the European Elections.
UKIP increased its 2005 vote from 1,122 to 4,068 at the by-election. That put it
in fourth place. Indeed, UKIP was fewer than 1,000 votes behind the Lib Dems.
The Greens increased their General Election vote of 1,252 to 3,350.

Both parties are perceived by the public as single-issue parties. Nevertheless,
both were able to increase their votes at a by-election in which the three major
parties were unable to do so. Labour's vote was catastrophically lower.
Obviously, the European and Green issues are important to voters.

Last week, Labour lost some 15,000 votes, votes that Dr Gibson had won in

2005. No doubt many of these voters simply abstained, but the two new parties
gained 5,000 voters.

If Britain had adopted electoral reform, which is the long-standing policy of
the Lib Dems, these new parties, including the BNP, would have an opportunity to
grow to the point at which they would become natural coalition partners. The
parties that are the biggest threat to the established parties would also make
the most attractive coalition parties.

The Lib Dems would be attractive coalition partners for Labour, as they have
been in Scotland; UKIP might be a potential coalition partner for the Tories,
though that would be resisted. The Greens are a threat to the Lib Dems, but
could also be their partners. As we do not have proportional representation,
this change-your-partners dance will not take place ñ yet.

Nevertheless, British politics will increasingly be influenced by the
single-issue parties. It is no longer reasonable to think UKIP or the Greens are
merely crankish parties, bound to fade away. The opinion polls suggest both are
in the interesting situation of being single-issue parties whose issues have
strong public appeal. Most voters are certainly more conscious of Green issues
than they used to be a generation ago; most voters have also become increasingly
critical of the European Union and the Lisbon Treaty.

The Lib Dems in the House of Lords voted with the Government against the Lisbon
referendum, which the country had been promised. Obviously, Eurosceptics will
hesitate before they vote Lib Dem. Support for Green issues crosses the
boundaries of other parties ñ the Tories can claim to have been a Green party
for a long time in that they were always the countryside party.

Iwould not particularly welcome coalitions of conflicting ideas ñ which
electoral reform has created in Scotland ñ into Westminster. But I do welcome
the mixture of ideas which is fermenting in our politics. The Norwich North
result supports the forecast that Labour is on the way out and the Tories are on
the way in.

Yet it also supports the view that the politics of ideas, which we knew in the
Forties, may be coming back. It was the ideas-based parties, UKIP and the
Greens, which were the only ones to increase their votes in the Norwich North
by-election.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 July 26, 2009

Comment and debate: Our voting system needs a radical overhaul

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 633 words


MANY MPs HOPE that, by passing the Parliamentary Standards Bill last week, they
might have put the expenses scandal behind them. They are wrong.

The Standards Act was a queasy response to public rage that was fired by more
than distaste for petty corruption. That anger described a dangerous gulf
between the elite and the people who, in theory, confer a governing mandate. It
revealed a crisis of representation.

The single most vital reform that should come out of such a crisis would be to
elect future parliaments on the principle of proportional representation; to
make every vote count.

The Observer reveals today that the government is considering holding a
referendum on electoral reform to coincide with a general election. The notion
is a good one, although the motive behind it is not entirely idealistic.

Some Labour strategists argue that a campaign on changing the voting mechanism
would make it hard for David Cameron, a fan of the current system, to present
himself as a candidate of change. Others point out that the glaring lack of
subtlety to such a gambit would be counterproductive. Labour could debase the
call for reform by making it a scheme to outmanoeuvre the Tories.

Any referendum would probably offer some variant of the alternative vote system.
Under AV, current constituency boundaries would remain, but voters would number
candidates in order of preference instead of simply marking a cross by their
first choice. So, once second and third choices are taken into account, the
winner generally has a stronger mandate than under the current system.

But AV still doesn't allocate parliamentary seats in line with the parties'
national share of the vote. A better system is the single transferable vote,
where voters also give numerical preferences, but a number of seats are awarded
per constituency. That way, MPs are still bound to represent a fixed locality,
but the final make-up of Parliament is an accurate reflection of national
opinion.

The technical arcana of voting systems can be offputting. But the underlying
principle is simple: under the current system, governments are formed by parties
that have not won a majority of votes and owe victory to fewer than 200,000
people in marginal constituencies; millions of ballots are wasted; those who
cast them are disenfranchised.

So what are the objections to reform? Mr Cameron is enthusiastic about the
status quo mainly because it is poised to make him prime minister. But the
Conservatives also have theoretical quibbles with PR. The main one is that it
tends to lead to coalition government. That, say the Tories, is undemocratic
because coalitions are stitched together in behind-the-scenes deals.

But in most western democracies, the conditions that parties lay down before
forming coalitions are quite explicit. Meanwhile, plenty of Westminster votes
are arranged in murky tea room conspiracies.

Another objection to PR is that it leads to instability. If no party has an
outright majority, small parties can hold governments to ransom. But plenty of
countries that use PR are run by stable coalitions. It is true that minority
parties can have powerful leverage, but that is often a more honest
manifestation of something that already happens at Westminster. What were the
serial rebellions by Labour MPs against Tony Blair if not ructions within a
coalition? On the opposite benches, David Cameron is so afraid of losing votes
to Ukip that, on matters of EU policy, he might as well be in coalition with a
fringe party.

There is no perfect voting system. But some are ultimately more democratic than
others. The current one continually fails to return parliaments that represent,
in a proportionate fashion, the views of the electorate. It is time the British
people were asked whether or not they think that is fair.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 82 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 26, 2009, Sunday

WHILE MPS ARE ON THEIR HOLIDAYS... YOU DECIDE HOW TO SPEND OUR TAXES;
  PEOPLE POLL GIVES READERS' VERDICT ON COMMONS SPENDING

BYLINE: NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1138 words

HIGHLIGHT: PRETEND: Alistair Darling


OUR MPs are off enjoying their 82-day summer break after giving Gordon Brown the
OK to spend billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash as he wants.

But today The People reveals how YOU would allocate the mountain of money.

In an exclusive YouGov poll, we asked readers to pretend they were Chancellor
Alistair Darling with power over Government budgets in recession-hit Britain.

In just one of the fascinating responses, voters made it clear they think
helping jobless youngsters into work is more important than helicopters for
Afghanistan.

An overwhelming 57 per cent think the PM is right to spend £1.1billion in a year
to boost youngsters' employment chances.

Fewer than one in five voters believe the money would be better spent on 21
Chinook choppers to help our troops in Helmand.

And only 14 per cent would give pensioners a £1.80-a-week boost instead.

Lib Dem Treasury spokesman Vince Cable commented: "It's gratifying to see the
British people demonstrating such common sense.

"There are many harsh choices ahead but we have to concentrate resources into
fighting unemployment, especially among young people."

Yet more than four out of 10 voters think helicopters are a higher priority than
more schools or hospitals.

Only eight per cent want the £6billion Mr Brown has earmarked for choppers
diverted to schools. And just 29 per cent favoured providing 21 hospitals.

Nurses

A significant proportion of voters support spending on other costly defence
projects.

Thirty per cent agree with finding £20billion to replace Trident missiles. But a
third would prefer the money to go on employing 45,400 extra nurses for 20
years.

Nearly four in ten voters want to go ahead with the Royal Navy's two super
aircraft carriers even though their £4.6billion cost would fund 92,000 hip
replacements a year for 10 years.

Shadow Defence minister Gerald Howarth said: "It's Government's first duty is to
protect the British Isles.

"This shows the people know it. And the Government should accept that too."

Disenchantment with MPs after the expenses scandal is perhaps one reason that
only half of voters questioned said they would keep Parliament rather than sell
off the site for £1.2billion.

About 22 per cent would use the proceeds to provide care for 6,000 elderly
people.

Nearly six out of 10 believe that the £5.5billion the Government budget for
treating mental illness including alcoholism and drug addiction is money well
spent.

The poll reveals that Gordon Brown would be ill-advised to go ahead with ID
cards - only 15 per cent think they are worth the £5billion cost. More than a
third of people want the money to give pensioners an extra £8 a week for a year.

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "I have yet to meet anyone who thinks
ID cards are a good idea. They should be scrapped without delay."

Labour's Lindsay Hoyle, of the powerful Commons Business committee, told The
People: "We need to reflect on the results of this survey and take on board what
we need to deliver on."

nigel.nelson@people.co.uk

We Say: Page 14

How would you vote?

Conservative 40% Labour 25% Lib Dem 20% Other 16% *Some results do NOT add up to
100 per cent because of poll-gathering techniques used for the survey.

Other votes SNP / PCY 3% Green 3% UKIP 5% BNP 4% Respect 0% Other 1%

You are Chancellor of the Exchequer and planning Britain's Budget. Choose to
spend the money on an existing project or a different suggestion.

Gordon Brown has promised to spend £6billion over the next 10 years to buy new
helicopters for our troops in Afghanistan.

What do you think the money should be spent on?

Helicopters as planned 42% 600 new secondary schools 8% 21 new hospitals 29%
None of these 10% Don't know 11%

The Government is proposing identity cards costing around £5billion. What do you
think the money should be spent on?

ID cards as planned 15% Cutting the basic rate of income tax by 1p for one year
19% Increasing the state pension by £8 a week for one year 36% None of these 24%
Don't know 5%

The latest valuation of Parliament is £1.2billion for the real estate value of
the buildings. What do you think the money should be spent on?

Keeping Parliament as it is 50% Selling it to fund 1,150 GPs for ten years 7%
Selling it to pay for residential care for 6,000 elderly people 22% None of
these 13% Don't know 9%

The Foreign Office costs around £2billion a year to run. If we halved the number
of diplomats and embassies abroad we could save £1billion. What do you think
this £1billion should be spent on?

Keeping the same number of diplomats and embassies as we have now 19% Hiring
23,200 more junior doctors 43% Providing 33,000 more prison places 19% None of
these 11% Don't know 7%

The Royal Navy is to get two new super carriers at a cost of £4.6billion. What
do you think the money should be spent on?

Aircraft carriers as planned 38% The cost of 15,300 regular soldiers for a
10-year career in the Army 19% Funding 92,000 hip replacements a year for ten
years 23% None of these 11% Don't know 8%

A replacement for the Trident defence missile system to protect Britain against
nuclear attack is likely to cost around £20 billion. What do you think the money
should be spent on?

Trident replacement as planned 30% The pay cheques of 45,400 nurses for a
20-year career in the NHS 33% Building 33,000 more affordable homes by 2016 23%
None of these 9% Don't know 6%

It costs £5.5billion a year to treat mental illness, including drug addiction
and alcoholism. What do you think the money should be spent on?

Treating mental illness as it is now 58% Treating 1.1 million patients with
heart disease 25% Reducing tobacco tax to make a pack of cigarettes £2.50
cheaper 3% None of these 9% Don't know 5%

An extra £1.1billion is being spent on helping unemployed young people find
work. What do you think the money should be spent on?

Helping young people find work as it is now 57% Giving pensioners an extra £1.80
a week 14% Buying 21 Chinook helicopters to support our troops in Afghanistan
18% None of these 7% Don't know 4%

Pensions for civil servants now cost around £27billion a year. What do you think
the money should be spent on?

Civil service pensions as now 22% Make civil servants pay for their own pensions
and spend the money on Trident missiles 4% Make civil servants pay for their own
pensions and hire 112,500 more police officers instead 52% None of these 14%
Don't know 7%

All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc. Total sample size was
1,765 adults. Fieldwork was undertaken 21 - 23 July 2009. The survey was carried
out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all GB
adults (aged 18+).

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                               15 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 26, 2009

Secret vote keeps EU whistleblower from office

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 303  words


WHEN THE newly-elected Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen was put forward last Monday for
a vice-chairmanship of the EU Parliament's budget committee, charged with
scrutinising the EU's  pounds 100 billion annual spending, it might have seemed
rather a good idea. Ms Andreasen knows a good deal more about the inner workings
of the EU budget than the rest of the committee put together.

This is because she was formerly the EU's chief accountant. I wrote about her
here two months ago when she published her book Brussels Laid Bare. In it she
recounts the events leading up to the day in 2004 when she was finally sacked,
after three years of suspension, having had the audacity to refuse to sign off
the EU's accounts. (In 15 years they have never been signed off by the EU's
Court of Auditors, because they are so full of what it tactfully likes to call
"irregularities''.)

Ms Andreasen's real crime was that she had found the EU's accounting system so
chaotic and open to fraud that she put forward proposals for it to be completely
reformed. This particularly enraged the director-general of the EU's budget
department, and his ally Neil Kinnock, the commissioner responsible for rooting
out fraud, who, when she explained the difficulties she was having to members of
the EU Parliament, angrily accused her of "disloyalty and breach of trust''.

Last week the two largest groups in the Parliament, the EPP and the Socialists,
were so keen to avoid the embarrassment of Ms Andreasen being given office that
they broke with convention and insisted that the vote be held in secret. After
she was duly rejected by 20 votes to nine, the leaders of the two groups were
seen celebrating in the bar with champagne. It would never do for the budget
committee to elect someone whose desire is to see the European Commission made
honest.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 26, 2009

The MEP who forgot to pack his passport;
mandrake

BYLINE: Tim walker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 148  words


UKIP MEMBERS of the European Parliament obviously have their reservations about
the institution that they have joined - not to mention the European Union in
general - but it is nevertheless going to be necessary for them to start
observing certain fundamental rules.

Mandrake hears that Stuart Agnew, a Norfolk farmer who was among the new intake
of seven Ukip members when he was elected to represent the East of England
region in June, was spotted at St Pancras in quite a state the other day.

Agnew himself won't talk about it, but his party leader Nigel Farage is more
forthcoming. "He turned up at the station, saying, 'Oh my God, I've forgotten my
passport,' smiled sweetly at the staff there, saying, 'I've just been elected,'
and, would you believe it, they let him through. It has been the cause of a lot
of hilarity in the party. How he managed to board the train is beyond me.''

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

SHATTERING DEFEAT THAT POINTS TO A WIPEOUT

LENGTH: 382 words


JAMES CHAPMAN'S

LABOUR is starting to look unelectable in England following their rout in
Norwich North.

Yesterday's result leaves hundreds of Labour MPs fearing for their seats in what
could well be a General Election wipeout.

It was only the second time the Conservatives have won a by-election from Labour
in 27 years, and Labour's vote share was the lowest for an incumbent MP's party
in any by-election for at least 40 years.

The seat had a Labour MP for 45 of the last 59 years, staying red even in
difficult years such as 1959, 1970 and Margaret Thatcher's victory of 1979.

But yesterday Chloe Smith won the seat from Labour with a majority of 7,348 and
almost 40 per cent of the vote. Turnout, forecast to be low, ended up being 45
per cent, fairly typical for a by-election.

In a General Election, the Tories would need a lead over Labour of about 9 per
cent, and a vote share approaching 40 per cent, to be confident of an overall
majority.

Such was the scale of Labour's collapse yesterday that they won just 18 per cent
of the votes ñ meaning 70 per cent of those who voted for the party in 2005
either switched or stayed at home.

Against all expectations, the swing from Labour to the Conservatives was 16.5
per cent ñ almost as high as the 17.6 per cent they achieved in Crewe & Nantwich
last year.

Reproduced on a national scale, it would leave only 107 Labour MPs in the House
of Commons. David Cameron would be swept into Downing Street with a majority of
218.

The historical parallels are unhappy for Labour. The swing in Norwich North is
more than twice as big as the one from Labour to the Conservatives in the 1978
Ilford North by-election, won by Vivian Bendall, which preceded the
Conservatives 1979 general election victory.

It is on the same scale as the swing from the Conservatives to Labour in the
1997 Wirral South by-election ñ 17 per cent ñ which preceded Labour's 1997
landslide general election victory.

The Norwich North result was not, however, unvarnished good news for the Tories.
The number of votes they polled was down to 13,591 from the 15,638 when they
came second in the 2005 general election.

Though that is typical for a by-election, UKIP and the Greens did put on votes
in a sign that minority parties are still picking up support after the MPs'
expenses scandal.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

Cameron is a brilliant party leader - but will it be enough?;
The voters have fallen out of love with Labour, but too many don't feel the need
to vote Tory, says Charles Moore

BYLINE: Charles Moore

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1120  words


After their victory in Norwich North yesterday, it is clearer than ever that the
Conservatives have two major advantages - David Cameron, and Gordon Brown.

In the great expenses scandal, which caused this by-election, the two party
leaders started from roughly the same bad place. Both headed parties whose worst
stereotypes were confirmed by this newspaper's revelations. The difference lay
in the leaders' reactions.

Mr Brown tried first to cover up, then to upstage Parliament, and finally to
reform it in ways blatantly calculated for party advantage. He looked
hypocritical (much talk of "my Presbyterian conscience''), slow off the mark,
and - given that half his ideas were blocked - powerless.

Mr Cameron moved quickly. He summoned the Shadow Cabinet and made them pay back
anything that did not look right. Then he went through the rest of his MPs,
meting out the same rough justice. They hated it, and grumbled privately about
favouritism. But in fact Mr Cameron saved most of their political skins. His
actions showed a symbolic understanding of public anger, and directed most of it
away from his party and on to the Government.

The expenses story, in miniature, is the story of our current party politics.
Gordon Brown is an exceptionally bad party leader. There is no need to labour
this point: everyone now knows it. (Footnote: Nick Clegg also turns out to be a
very poor leader, which gives the Conservatives a bonus they could not have
predicted.) And David Cameron is an exceptionally good leader.

This last point needs a little more development, since there are still quite a
few, especially within his party, who deny it. But the reason he won the party
leadership in 2005 is the same reason he has kept winning his important battles
ever since. It is that he grasps, articulates and tackles the problem at hand.
Then, it was the Tories' miserable reputation as human beings: the issue was
what the Victorians used to call "men, not measures''. Mr Cameron knew that they
had to be more optimistic, more "diverse'', kinder.

Later, in 2007, the problem changed. As Tony Blair seemed discredited and Mr
Brown replaced him, Mr Cameron came under pressure to trash the Blair legacy. He
realised what a waste of emotional energy this would be. He also recognised -
how hard it now is to remember that others did not - that Mr Brown's pretensions
to unspun integrity were laughable. So he made himself the political "heir to
Blair'', in the same, pragmatic way that Mr Blair had made himself heir to Mrs
Thatcher. He calculated that this would leave him standing in the right place
when Mr Brown imploded. After three months, it did.

Finally, the credit crunch meant that Mr Cameron's early bluey-green thoughts
about "general wellbeing'' and the "proceeds of growth'' started to look pretty
silly. With the shamelessness required of top politicians, he went into reverse.
This summer, the Tories have emerged as the party of honesty about public
spending. Of course we'll cut, they say, and of course Labour will: the
difference is that we admit it. Mr Brown is now the one whom the voters
disbelieve.

Being Leader of the Opposition is notoriously the most difficult job in British
politics. David Cameron has done it for nearly four years with a parliamentary
party 30 per cent smaller than that which Margaret Thatcher led from 1975 to
1979. Judging strictly in terms of political management, I would say that he has
so far been more successful than she. In fact, he must be the most skilful Tory
opposition leader since Disraeli.

But of course that is not the epitaph Mr Cameron wants. He wants to be prime
minister. And here, even after Norwich North, you can see the continuing
weakness of his party's position. The Tories have, as I say, two advantages -
their leader and his opponent. But what else do they have?

In the fairly low turnout at Norwich, and in the significant votes for UKIP (who
gained a "safe'' county council seat from Cambridgeshire Tories in a by-election
on the same day) and the Greens, you see yet again an electorate that feels
under little moral obligation to vote at all or to take the two main parties
seriously.

Since the war, the Tories have never formed a government with fewer than
13,000,000 votes. At the 2005 election, they got 8,772,598. To win an overall
majority next time, they need either a numerical miracle, or a default victory
based on the mass abstention of their opponents' normal supporters. It is not a
happy situation.

And I am sure that the Conservatives' focus groups tell them that, beyond
thinking well of Mr Cameron, voters do not recognise the Tory "signature'' on
anything much. In 1978/9, they would have known that the Tories promised
something different on taxes, inflation, trade unions, and the Cold War. What do
they know now? Nothing terrible, but also, nothing much.

The vagueness of these impressions might not matter politically if in fact the
Tories did know what they wanted to do. But where are they on terror, "human
rights'', our constitutional decay, health service reform, local government,
energy, our relations with America, the undeclared war in Afghanistan?

The range of bright, public-spirited candidates is impressive. This weekend, the
Parliamentary Assessment Board is testing the new crop who have answered Mr
Cameron's recent call. Plenty, I gather, have experience of "real life'' -
ex-army officers, policemen, top-grade civil servants and people who have run
their own businesses. They will look good when presented to the public at the
party conference in the autumn.

But one cannot help asking if so many coming in for the first time, without
having risen through the hard school of party politics, will know what to do if
they find themselves supporting a Tory government. At present, the huge power of
public-sector Leftists - in quangos, pressure groups, unions, the judiciary,
green organisations, local councils and the BBC - directs disappointed anger on
to Labour. After a Tory victory, all that will change. Like enraged addicts
undergoing cold turkey, without their huge doses of public spending, they will
trash the public space. Will the Tories have the tough foot-soldiers needed to
fight this culture war? Will they have enough officers leading from the front?
If voters spot this weakness in advance, will they support them?

You can be sure that Peter Mandelson is asking these questions. He also knows
that Labour's greatest minus is Mr Brown and the Tories' greatest plus is Mr
Cameron. He can do something about the former and not the latter. He may see an
assassin's logic here, and act with incredible speed to save the party which, in
his weird way, he loves. I wish I could be sure that the Tories were ready.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

ANALYSIS;
Stay-at-home voters slam door on Brown;
Labour supporters refuse to turn out after the expenses scandal rather than
support other parties

BYLINE: Rosa Prince Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; THE EXPENSES BY-ELECTION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 606  words


LABOUR voters in Norwich North delivered a damning verdict on Gordon Brown's
handling of the expenses scandal by staying at home.

The "expenses by-election'' was won and lost as a result of a breathtaking
collapse in the Labour vote, rather than any enthusiasm for Chloe Smith, the
Conservatives' articulate young candidate.

For the past few years, by-election turnouts have generally been slightly higher
than those at the preceding general election.

In contrast, turnout in Norwich North was just 45.8 per cent, down on the 61.1
per cent of the electorate that voted in the 2005 general election.

Seven out of every 10 Norwich residents who voted for Ian Gibson, the Labour
candidate in 2005, chose not to do so for Chris Ostrowski, the party's
by-election candidate.

In contrast, while the Tory vote was also slightly down on 2005, nine out of 10
of their 15,638 voters turned out again in 2009.

Although the UK Independence Party polled strongly, a lacklustre performance by
the Liberal Democrats and the Greens showed that Labour voters were not tempted
by other parties.

Alan Simpson, the Labour MP for Nottingham South, said: "It's clear what went
wrong: the Labour vote simply went Awol.''

Colin Rallings, elections researcher and professor of politics at the University
of Plymouth, said: "This was a seat where Labour had a reasonable majority. So
to get only 18 per cent of the vote is pretty miserable.

"But it does not seem to be about throwing out one side and replacing them with
the other, voters do not yet seem entirely convinced by the Conservatives.''

Gordon Brown blamed the by-election loss on public anger at politicians of all
stripes.

"I don't think any party can take a great deal of cheer from this,'' he said.
"The Conservative vote went down, the Liberal vote went down, only the fringe
parties saw their votes going up. I think it's a lesson that we have all got to
observe.''

But while many in the Labour Party blamed Mr Brown for the debacle, the response
of most MPs to the shocking scale of the defeat was one of gloom rather than
rebellion.

The Cabinet left it to Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, to field media
questions, much as she did during the early days of the expenses scandal.

But unlike last year, when the spectacular loss of the Glasgow East by-election
came close to toppling Mr Brown, regicide was not in the air at Westminster
yesterday.

Most MPs kept a low profile in their constituencies, or turned their mobile
phones off to enjoy the start of their summer holiday.

The few who could be contacted said that there were no plots in the offing,
although one or two optimistic souls raised the possibility that the Prime
Minister could be persuaded to quit without a fight.

There was a resolute "no comment'' from Alan Johnson, the Home Secretary. He is
considered the leading candidate to replace Mr Brown.

David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, who toyed with mounting a challenge after
Glasgow East, also damped speculation that the defeat could cause problems for
the Prime Minister.

"Everybody understands that the by-election reflects some unique circumstances.
It is not evidence for the need of a change in the Labour leadership,'' he said.

The lack of appetite for a coup is less to do with Mr Brown's position, than
Labour MPs' desire for peace and quiet following a bruising spring and summer.

The Prime Minister will hope that they return from their holidays for the
conference season, the traditional time for plotting against the leadership,
rested but not quite invigorated enough to face up to the question of whether
they would fare better at the next general election without him.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

Leaders: Politics: The message from Norwich North

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 647 words


Even after the result came through at lunchtime, Labour leaders stuck gamely to
the party's campaign line about Norwich North. This was, they insisted, an
unusual byelection held in extraordinary circumstances. The unusual bit,
according to this argument, was the resignation of the sitting Labour MP Ian
Gibson in protest against a party decision to force him to stand down at the
general election. The extraordinary circumstances were the public's intense
disgust with politicians of all parties over MPs' expenses, the issue that
provoked Labour to drop Dr Gibson as a candidate. The implication is that
Norwich North was just a one-off, with few wider lessons.

Nonsense. The result in Norwich North was not a freak at all, especially for
Labour. Chloe Smith's capture of the seat for the Conservatives, on a swing of
16.5%, is bang in line with what happened in Crewe and Nantwich in May 2008,
when the Tories also ousted Labour on a monster swing, that time of 17.5%.
Labour's collapse in Norwich North from its 45% share in 2005 to a measly 18%
this week is also absolutely consistent with the marginalisation of the party in
all the big electoral contests in England since Gordon Brown's brief honeymoon
came to an end - the slump to 22% in this year's local elections, the terrible
16% score in the European parliamentary elections, the loss of the London
mayoralty and every remaining county council in England. Norwich was the fourth
English byelection since 2007 - and Labour has not won any of them.

It is true that there were some special factors at play. Local resentment
against Labour's precipitate axing of the independent-minded Dr Gibson was one.
This may help explain why some of the 14,000 electors who deserted Labour this
week did so. Turnout was low for a competitive byelection, falling by a quarter
compared with 2005. But whether disgruntled Gibson supporters would have voted
Labour had they turned out is another matter. Protest voters had plenty of
options, including the Greens (who are strong in Norwich and who will be
disappointed to have finished fifth) and Ukip (whose strong fourth place is a
reminder that the party could affect some close results in the general
election).

This was also the first byelection since the expenses scandal. That issue is
less livid than it was a month ago, but it unquestionably shaped the campaign
and the result. But the suggestion that voters would respond by punishing all
the major parties indiscriminately proved wide of the mark. In Norwich North all
three main parties lost votes, but the voters overwhelmingly took it out on
Labour. Yet was Labour punished because it was Labour or because it was the
incumbent? Unless there is a comparable byelection triggered by an expenses
issue in a Tory seat it will be hard to know. Certainly Central Office must be
relieved that Julie Kirkbride, for instance, has not put the issue to the test
in Bromsgrove. But the Tory win in Norwich North - where Ms Smith presented
herself as the candidate of new politics, offering a transparency contract to
the voters on her spending and taxes - suggests that David Cameron has found a
better way of turning the issue to electoral advantage on Labour ground than Mr
Brown would be able to do in Tory territory or has yet done in the country
generally.

It is easier for an opposition to frame itself as representing new forms of
politics. Nevertheless, the unmissable message from Norwich North - a previously
safe Labour seat which was only 162nd on the Tory hit list - is that Mr Cameron
remains on course to win an overall majority next year. By the same token,
Labour is heading for the governmental exit. Unless the economy picks up or Mr
Brown improbably finds a way of turning things around - or unless the party
finally despairs of him and elects a new leader with greater electoral appeal -
Labour now looks like toast.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

The disappointment of Norwich North

LENGTH: 520 words

ABSTRACT

Cath Elliott: Despite the Greens' gains, I hoped that disillusionment with the
main parties would have a more radical result in Norwich

FULL TEXT

So the votes have  and the , and now, for the first time since I moved to
Norwich in 1999, I'm going to be represented in parliament by a Tory MP: the
next nine months or so should be interesting to say the least. After that, we'll
have a general election, when we'll have to endure the campaigning and the
suspense all over again.

In the end the result was a disappointment but not a surprise. The successful
Conservative candidate Chloe Smith had been the bookies' favourite for weeks;
the only real question was how big a majority she would muster. As it turned
out, Smith won by a significant margin, more than 7,000 votes, although when you
consider that in 2005 the Tories came  with just over 15,500 votes, there's no
indication from this byelection that there's been a massive increase in their
support.

What the results in Norwich do show is that Gordon Brown and the New Labour
government have every reason to be concerned about next year's general election,
because while some of Labour's losses in Norwich can be put down to the
continuing anger here over the nature of 's departure, even I was shocked at the
size of their defeat. If the swing away from Labour is replicated nationwide, by
this time next year they will be well and truly finished.

On a more positive note, it was great to see the Green party picking up nearly
10% of the vote, proof that British politics is no longer a two- or even a
three-party race. I don't accept, as some have already suggested, that the
Greens' fifth place in this election means that people still aren't ready to
take green politics seriously, or that the smaller parties are never going to
stand a chance. Both the Greens and Ukip, who pipped them to fourth place,
improved substantially on their 2005 results, while the BNP got nowhere, as
expected, and should hopefully have got the message that there's no support for
their hate and their racism in Norwich at least.

On a more personal note, I'm bitterly disappointed with the result. I'd hoped
that the commonly felt disillusionment with the two main parties would have
translated into a more radical shift in voter behaviour, and that both the
Greens and Craig Murray would have polled better than they did. But I'm not so
despondent that I can't see any hope for future elections, especially when I
look at the fourfold increase in support the Greens have achieved in just four
years.

Perhaps the biggest lesson for me has been the realisation that I'm not really
cut out for the role of a bystander. Gripping as I found it to watch the various
campaigns from a distance, uninvolved and unaffiliated to any one party as I am,
I also found it immensely frustrating that I couldn't get stuck in and help out
where it was needed, and I missed that feeling of being a part of something big.
So next time round I've vowed to take a different approach, and who knows, one
day I might even think about standing myself.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A by-election that obscures as much as it reveals;
LEADING ARTICLE Norwich North shows that an anti-politics mood is still strong

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 570 words


The furore over MPs expenses might have died away of late, but the Norwich North
by-election is evidence that the affair continues to cast a shadow over
Westminster. One of the ironies of yesterday's result is that it suggests the
Government shot itself in the foot with its panicked reaction to the expenses
firestorm.

Visitors to East Anglia in recent weeks discovered a healthy number of
constituents who spoke of their support for their former Labour MP, Ian Gibson.
Rather than baying for Mr Gibson's blood over his supposed expenses abuses, they
felt he had been harshly treated by Labour's disciplinary "Star Chamber". If the
party had been less severe, Mr Gibson would not have resigned, postponing this
contest until the next general election. As it was, Labour got the worst of both
worlds: an early poll and the alienation of many traditional Labour voters.

Of the other main parties, the Liberal Democrats will also have been
disappointed by the result. The third party has been performing impressively on
the national stage of late. Nick Clegg has set the political agenda on issues
such as the British residency for Gurkhas and he has been admirably upfront
about the economic choices facing the country. But the Liberal Democrats seem to
have mislaid their talent for turning national exposure into by-election
victories, trailing a weak third in Norwich North.

The Tories were understandably pleased yesterday with the comfortable election
of their young candidate, Chloe Smith. They were able to point to the 16.5 per
cent swing from Labour as putting them on course for an overall majority at the
next general election.

Yet a close inspection of yesterday's results does not suggest a Conservative
Party comfortably cruising to power in the manner of the Labour Party in 1997.
The Tories certainly produced a decent swing, but they increased their share of
the vote by less than they did in last year's by-election in Crewe and Nantwich.
There were no mass defections of Labour votes to the Tories. That will concern
Mr Cameron and his team.

Part of the explanation is that smaller parties did impressively in Norwich
North, just as they did in last month's European elections. There was a sense of
disappointment in the Green Party camp yesterday, with some feeling they ought
to have done better as a strong opposition force on the local council. But they
still doubled their vote on 2005. And UKIP also did formidably well. The
anti-government mood in the country is vying for predominance with a mood of
antipathy towards all the mainstream parties.

The Conservatives will regard Norwich as a springboard, and Labour will live
with the result. It seems unlikely to prompt fresh rebellion against Gordon
Brown. The party's rebels are still demoralised by the last failed coup and,
with Labour MPs scattered around the country in the parliamentary recess, it
seems fanciful to imagine another plot materialising over the summer.

So, in one sense, Norwich North obscures just as much as it reveals of the
political landscape. If the anti-government feeling grows stronger in the
country between now and next spring, the Conservative momentum will, surely,
become unstoppable.

But if, instead, the generalised anti-politics mood increases, then so does the
uncertainty over what the next parliament will look like. As they while away
their long break, one thing MPs cannot complain of is lacking food for thought.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

My party has been injured the most by expenses scandal;
Comment

BYLINE: Charles Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 795 words


Gordon Brown was right to say that the Norwich North by-election was unique, but
the main reason for that distinction is that it was a by-election which should
never have happened.

It was the product of a chaotic absence of any clear guiding principles as
Parliament tried to deal with MPs' expenses. Consequently Gordon Brown and David
Cameron did nothing to arrest the corrosive direction of events. They ran in
front of the wind of Daily Telegraph vigilantism and proclaimed their own
integrity by denigrating that of others. And they abandoned any concept of
fairness in the way they treated their own MPs, picking some for excoriation
whilst tolerating others.

It was this arbitrary approach which led directly to the by-election as the
Prime Minister vilified Ian Gibson, but not on any fair basis. This incompetent
and unjust style has deeply damaged democratic politics. Moreover the appalling
result in Norwich illustrates the important political side-effect that Labour,
as the governing party, has been injured worst of all.

The main reason for the Norwich result was that voters there were quite clear
that it was for them, not the Labour leadership, to decide whether or not Ian
Gibson remained their MP. Ian is widely respected for his constituency work and
his commitment to Norwich. These voters in no way excuse malpractice on expenses
- far from it - but they find it hard to believe that Ian was motivated by greed
and thought, as I do, that Labour ended his political career for cynical reasons
with no due process.

Labour correctly steered well clear of making the by-election a referendum on
Gordon Brown's leadership. Though the very low overall standing of the Party was
a serious handicap the principal verdict of the by-election was on Labour's
appalling handling of the expenses issue.

The expenses catastrophe was not an Act of God. It was widely predicted and much
of it could have been avoided. Unpleasant though it was the Daily Telegraph
scoop offered one service in that it brought matters to a head, though its
reporting was scurrilous and politically targeted and motivated.

Our response needed, and now needs, to be transparent, comprehensive, fair and
rapid. It needs to be genuinely all-Party, to respect the role and
responsibilities of Members of Parliament and to punish rigorously those who
have transgressed the rules or the law.

Transparency was essential. In early May I, and others, urged the Speaker to
publish immediately and in full the unredacted material. On advice from
officials concerned with Data Protection he refused. This decision precipitated
over 2 months of unremitting and generally uncontested public abuse which has
damaged Parliament far worse than early publication would have.

Publication of the claims revealed manifest failures in the system. MPs should
have addressed these weaknesses far earlier but did not. I therefore argued to
the Prime Minister in April that we needed a comprehensive review covering pay,
second jobs, pensions and allowances. This review should have been conducted by
senior MPs from all parties and Parliamentary agreement achieved by now. Instead
we have had a piecemeal and incoherent combination of incompetent new
legislation, Parliamentary resolutions, and various formal enquiries. This will
lead to continuing debilitating controversy between now and Christmas.

The conduct of individual MPs, with widely varying personal circumstances has to
be considered fairly. The police have to consider potential breaches of the law.
The system has to be explained openly and run competently. This was impossible
to do with rules which changed annually, or more frequently, for example in
defining what is or is not the 'main' home, (when many MPs, particularly with
children, spend about half their life in London and half in the constituency).

And decisions need to be taken far more rapidly. It is now more than three
months since the Prime Minister's April statement to Parliament on the subject
and months lie ahead before a new system is put in place. Police and
Parliamentary hearings about past alleged offences drag on in a way which will
continue to invite contempt for the political process. The challenge for Labour
now is to establish a positive agenda and end the sequence of damaging injuries
which afflict us.

Our approach to the genuine shock felt by millions of people throughout the
country must be to be transparent, comprehensive, speedy and above all fair.

Charles Clarke is a former Home Secretary and MP for Norwich South

Norwich by-election The results

* Chloe Smith (Con) 13,591 (39.5%)

* Chris Ostrowski (Lab) 6,243 (18.2%)

* April Pond (Lib Dem) 4,803 (14%)

* Glenn Tingle (Ukip) 4,068 (11.8%)

* Rupert Read (Green) 3,350 (9.7%)

* Others 2,322 (6.8%)

Turnout 34,377 (45.76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

PM fingered for 'unjust style' after heavy loss in Norwich;
Recriminations begin after 27-year-old Conservative's triumph

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1037 words


A FORMER Cabinet minister today blames Gordon Brown's "incompetent and unjust
style" for Labour's disastrous by-election defeat in Norwich North.

The party's vote haemorrhaged as the Tories won a convincing victory in the
first contest to be forced by the Commons expenses scandal.

Chloe Smith, 27, will arrive at Westminster in the autumn as the country's
youngest MP after achieving a swing of 16.5 per cent to capture the previously
safe Labour seat by a comfortable majority of 7,348 votes.

The by-election was called after Ian Gibson quit Parliament in protest over
being barred by Labour's "star chamber" from standing for the party at the next
election.

As Labour recriminations grew over the scale of the defeat, MPs claimed that the
Prime Minister's determination to act tough had backfired disastrously.

Writing in The Independent today, Charles Clarke, the former Home Secretary and
MP for the neighbouring seat of Norwich South, says that Mr Brown was selective
over which Labour MPs were targeted after the expenses storm erupted.

He says: "It was this arbitrary approach which led directly to the by-election
as the Prime Minister vilified Ian Gibson, but not on any fair basis. This
incompetent and unjust style has deeply damaged democratic politics."

The Labour leadership took swift action against Mr Gibson after it emerged he
claimed more than £80,000 in expenses for a flat where his daughter lived
rent-free and then sold it to her at a discount price.

His supporters claimed he had been deliberately singled out because of his
history of criticism of the leadership and won the backing of many activists in
Norwich North when he resigned immediately in protest over his treatment.

Labour mounted a lacklustre campaign in the constituency with little support
from senior ministers. It ended with its candidate, Chris Ostrowski, confined to
quarantine with swine flu and his wife taking his place at the count yesterday.

When the result was declared, nearly three-quarters of Labour's support at the
last election evaporated, with Mr Ostrowski picking up 6,243 votes, less than
half of the 13,591 picked up by Ms Smith.

The size of the anti-Labour swing almost matches that achieved by the Tories
last year in the Crewe and Nantwich by-election. Repeated in a general election,
it would propel David Cameron into Downing Street with a three-figure majority.

The only consolation for Labour was that it held on to second place as the
anti-government vote fractured between the Liberal Democrats, the Greens and the
UK Independence Party. Thousands of disillusioned former Labour voters also
appeared to have stayed at home.

The collapse in support came amid deep gloom among Labour MPs, who left
Westminster yesterday for the parliamentary summer recess.

Their low morale in the wake of the expenses revelations means there is no
immediate mood for a fresh attempt to oust Mr Brown, although the question of
his leadership could resurface at the Labour conference in September.

The mood was summed up by Andrew Mackinlay, who told his constituency party in
Thurrock, Essex, that he would step down at the next election. He said last
night: "Despite what's peddled in the media, it's unrelenting work - seven days
a week, 52 weeks a year."

Labour MPs from all sections of the party denounced the treatment of Mr Gibson
by their leadership. One minister said: "I don't understand why he was
deselected by the star chamber - I just don't get it."

Denis MacShane, the former Foreign Office Minister, said: "Ian was very popular
in the Commons and in his constituency. It was a misjudgement to expel him and
we have paid a very serious price."

Left-winger Alan Simpson protested: "Ian was the victim of a political
assassination orchestrated by the party machine in London. The machine wanted a
sacrificial victim and who better than to go for than one of Gordon's critics,
rather than his friends?"

Tony Wright, chairman of the public administration select committee, said: "He
was a victim of a moment when all parties, and all party leaders, were falling
over each other to show how tough they were being."

Mr Brown admitted the reverse was "disappointing" but attempted to play down its
significance, saying no party "can take a great deal of cheer from this" as
votes for main parties fell across the board.

A by-election that obscures as much as it reveals

Editorial, page 32

I'd put a lot of money on Brown remaining as leader

Steve Richards, page 33

What happened next

The youngest members

At the age of 27, Chloe Smith joins an eclectic list of youngest MPs, from
Esmond Harmsworth, who ran Associated Newspapers, and George Grey, killed at
Normandy in 1944, to Roy Jenkins and John Profumo. Here, others recall entering
the Commons as its youngest member.

* TONY BENN, 1950, AGED 25

I was only the Baby of the House for 24 hours - a guy called Tom Teevan took his
oath the following day. Advice: My dad said: "Say what you mean, mean what you
say, do what you said you'd do, and don't attack people personally."

* DAVID STEEL, 1965, AGED 26

There was no induction course. People drew diagrams to show me how to get
around. Advice: Take a little time before making a maiden speech.

* CHARLES KENNEDY, 1983, AGED 23

I was in awe of the place. Here were all these famous names, Jim Callaghan,
Powell, Michael Foot, Ted Heath, just inches away. Callaghan gave me a tour and
told the library staff I needed to be looked after.

Advice: The same as in any walk of life, don't be afraid to ask. People always
like to be asked.

* DAVID LAMMY, 2000, AGED 27

There were lots of press and flash photography. Then you're stood in central
lobby and you might as well be a tourist. You have no office, no staff. It's
daunting. Advice: It's a marathon, not a sprint. Take time to reflect on the
kind of MP you want to be that's true to your personality. It's important to
spend lots of time in the chamber. You have to learn the craft.

* SARAH TEATHER, 2003, AGED 29

It was an amazing spotlight for raising your constituents' concerns - you don't
get that again unless you go on to be a frontbencher.

Advice: Your first few months will be a nightmare, but remember you have
something that most colleagues won't ever have - a profile.

Interviews by Tom Peck

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

This is a calamitous result for Brown;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 464 words


About as bad as expected - that is, close to being calamitous. The result from
Norwich North provided further evidence that Labour is staring general election
defeat in the face.

At 16.5 per cent, the swing to the Conservatives was almost on a par with the
17.5 per cent the Tories secured in capturing Crewe & Nantwich last year. Prior
to Crewe, they had not inflicted so bad a by-election defeat on Labour since the
darkest days of the 1970s Labour government. Now, little over 12 months later,
they have repeated a feat that suggests David Cameron is on course for general
election success.

True, there was one big difference between Norwich and Crewe. The swing
reflected a collapse in the Labour vote rather than a dramatic Conservative
advance. At just over six points, the increase in the Tory share was quite
modest, well down on the near-17-point advance in Crewe. Perhaps this should
give the opposition leader a moment's pause?

Modest though it might have been, the increase in Conservative support was still
the third highest in any by-election since 1997. And they have registered their
increase despite a continuing anti-Westminster mood.

Ukip's 11.8 per cent share of the vote was their highest ever in a by-election.
Although the Greens might feel disappointment at conceding fourth place, their
9.7 per cent was also their highest ever by-election share. These two
performances come in the wake of the record 40 per cent of the vote secured by
non-Westminster parties in last month's Euro-elections. Although recent opinion
polls have identified some decline in support for "Others", at an average of 16
per cent their standing is still unusually high.

In truth, all three main Westminster parties will be anxiously looking to see
whether the expenses scandal has given the smaller parties a boost that outlives
the Euro-contest.

At nearly 27 points, the decline in Labour's share of the vote was one of the
worst it has suffered since 1997. Previous losses on this scale - Hamilton South
(1999), Brent East (2003) and Birmingham Hodge Hill (2004) - occurred in
previously safe Labour seats in the wake of third party insurgencies. This
disaster occurred in the kind of key Labour-Conservative marginal where the
national battle for power at the next general election will be won and lost.

Doubtless, Labour will argue that local circumstances played their part in
Norwich - the controversial sacking of the locally popular MP, Dr Ian Gibson. Of
course that was no isolated local incident, but the product of Gordon Brown's
handling of the expenses scandal. His decisive action was meant to benefit his
party. Instead, it seems that once again events have uncovered the Prime
Minister's lack of political touch.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Disaster falls but Brown is still safe

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1028 words


The political year ends like the last one - with a colossal defeat for Labour in
a by-election. Twelve months ago, voters in Glasgow gave Gordon Brown the thumbs
down in a by-election won by the SNP. Yesterday, the Conservatives gained
Norwich with another spectacular swing. Politics is starting to repeat itself.
Labour MPs head for their holidays for the second year running with a sense of
doom. Some are in despair about their leader. Conservatives look to the autumn
and beyond daring to hope they are on course for victory at a general election.

A year ago, Labour's defeat in Glasgow was the backdrop for the first attempted
coup against Brown. A few days after that by-election, the Foreign Secretary,
David Miliband, wrote his famously explosive article in which he reflected on
Labour's future without referring once to his leader. In September, cabinet
ministers contemplated making a move against Brown and a few Labour MPs flexed
their muscles in public. Miliband started an embryonic campaign in which he
appeared in more magazine profiles than Jade Goody. As we all know, nothing
happened. Similarly, the second attempted coup went nowhere in the tumultuous
days before and after the elections last month. Ministers resigned. There were
calls for Brown to go. He stayed.

There are limits to patterns in politics. I detect little energy for another
coup following yesterday's summer by-election defeat. The case for a third
attempt to remove a Prime Minister would have to be based on a much wider range
of arguments than a single by-election, the local and European elections in June
(which were even worse for Labour), the opinion polls in September and on
Brown's performance when he returns from his semi-holiday at the end of next
month.

In fact, he never really takes holidays. Even in Southwold last year he spent a
lot of time planning his autumnal survival strategy, on the phone and in
meetings with Ed Balls and others. This summer he plans to give a lot of thought
to a general election campaign which will start unofficially after the break.
When his aides first proposed the idea of an election in autumn 2007, Brown was
sceptical, saying they should have cancelled their summer holidays in order to
prepare properly for the campaign. He has almost cancelled summer this time.

The rebels had their chance to remove Brown last month and failed. As one of
them told me a few days ago: "We did not have an alternative candidate. In the
end that is what explains what went wrong". They still do not have one.

Key cabinet ministers also made their choice when, in their different ways, they
supported Brown last month. Lord Mandelson, Alan Johnson and David Miliband are
unlikely to revisit those decisions in the autumn. Some of those who might have
played their part in another insurrection are leaving politics altogether.

Since the last failed coup, Alan Milbun has announced he will not be standing at
the next election; so has Patricia Hewitt. One or two other former ministers who
resigned last month are giving up too. If anything, the rebels are weaker now
than they were in early June. At an Independent readers' meeting in Manchester
this week, one of the most vociferous dissenters, Graham Stinger, admitted he
thought Brown would now lead Labour into the election. With Stringer making such
a prediction, not one that gives his side of the argument any momentum, I would
put a lot of money on Brown remaining as leader.

This entire period has felt very different from the fall of Margaret Thatcher,
when Tory MPs acted to save their seats. After the MPs' expenses saga, a lot of
Labour backbenchers have more or less given up. There is no energy for
insurrection. Some do not seem to mind if they lose.

This can be of only limited comfort to Brown. Following a brief lift in the
autumn, the polls have been terrible for Labour since early December after the
pre-Budget report. Brown's most astute advisers realise that he and others must
decide soon what message they want to deliver in this year's pre-Budget report
and work backwards from that decision. In other words, their messages in
September during the build-up to the conference and the conference itself must
reflect and prepare for what they plan to announce in the pre-Budget report on
public spending, tax and the overall state of the economy. These advisers
recognise the Conservatives have won the tactical battle so far. After
yesterday's result, how could they fail to do so?

But politics is so shapeless at the moment, Cameron cannot be confident yet of
winning an overall majority. UKIP's strong performance in the by-election,
coming ahead of the Greens, shows it is still a force. The MPs' expenses scandal
and the related rise of the smaller parties are wild cards as the general
election approaches. Will the next election mark a distinct turn against a
long-serving government in the middle of an economic crisis or reflect a wider
anti-politics mood in which both the two bigger parties are victims? Until
Cameron knows the answer to that question, he cannot be certain of a decisive
victory.

Evidently, he is not complacent. He visited Norwich six times, surely a record
for a Leader of the Opposition in relation to by-elections. Tony Blair was a
much less frequent visitor to by-elections in the run up to the 1997 election
and was a surprisingly shy campaigner, inadvertently conveying a sense that he
could not wait to leave. Cameron is more effusive in these situations and could
not keep away. His hyperactivity is triumphantly vindicated.

Partially the course is set. Labour has no other candidate to lead them. As one
cabinet minister put it to me yesterday: "I just can't imagine Alan Johnson
preparing for the next G8 summit and the pre-Budget report." Cameron and George
Osborne have made spending cuts their theme but cleverly frame the debate as one
between honesty and dishonesty. The debate on spending is more complex than it
seems, but who is in favour of dishonesty? Unless Brown can change the terms of
the debate by the end of the year, he and Labour are heading for a massive
defeat whatever happens to the other parties.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

Britain - Another blow for Labour;
Conservatives take Norwich North seat with more than 13,000 votes

BYLINE: Adrian Roberts

LENGTH: 483 words


Labour suffered a massive by-election blow yesterday when the Tories overturned
the party's 5,000-plus majority to snatch Norwich North.

The Tories took the seat with a majority of more than 7,000 in the first
Westminster by-election since the MPs' expenses row.

Tory candidate Chloe Smith won with 13,591 - more than twice as many votes as
Labour candidate Chris Ostrowski, who had only 6,243 votes.

The Lib Dems came third with 4,803, narrowly ahead of UKIP on 4,068.

Labour voters deserted the party after the deselection of popular former MP Ian
Gibson.

He had been supported by his local party, which felt he had been unfairly
singled out, and decided to quit immediately, forcing the by-election.

Labour MP John McDonnell pointed out that it was an unnecessary by-election
caused by barring Mr Gibson from standing at the next election.

"What is clear is that the Gordon Brown/Peter Mandelson strategy is not
working," said Mr McDonnell.

"However hard it spins it, this is a shocking result for Labour," he said.

"The first thing that Gordon Brown and the Labour Party NEC should do is to
apologise to Ian Gibson and his family, the people of Norwich, and the Labour
Party members nationwide for robbing them of a decent, hard-working, principled
MP, who was greatly respected in his local area.

"If we are going to learn anything from this defeat, the Prime Minister has to
stop obeying the diktats of Peter Mandelson and start listening to the people."

Deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman said the result was "very disappointing" but
stressed that the turnout had been "appalling."

"It is more of our voters staying at home or going to other smaller parties
rather than a big shift from Labour to the Conservatives," she claimed.

Ms Harman said she was "sorry" that Mr Gibson had chosen to spark the
by-election by quitting as an MP immediately when he was blocked from standing
again.

Asked about claims that Mr Gibson had been treated unfairly, she said: "Yes,
there have been questions asked about the process of how we make sure that, if
there are allegations of wrongdoing, that we properly review them."

If the result was repeated across the country at the next general election, the
Tories would be swept into 10 Downing Street with a Commons majority of 218.

The Tories would have 434 MPs, with Labour on 107, Liberal Democrats 79 and
others 30.

It is assumed that there is no change to figures for the SNP, Plaid Cymru and
minor party seats.

The Buckingham constituency of Speaker John Bercow is included with the
Conservatives and Glasgow North East, where there is a by-election pending, with
Labour.

The calculations are based on new boundaries which will come in at the next
general election, using estimates by professors Colin Rallings and Plymouth
University's Michael Thrasher of how voting in constituencies would have divided
if the changes had been in force in 2005.

newsed@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 25, 2009 Saturday 9:40 PM GMT

Civil liberties campaigners are strangely reluctant to criticise the EU

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 355 words


Andrew MacKinley is leaving Parliament in protest at MPs' feebleness over the
extradition of Gary McKinnon,the eccentric who hacked into Pentagon computers in
search of UFOs. Good for MacKinley: the wretched saga reflects equally badly on
the American and British authorities. (For the argument in full, read Boris
Johnson here.)

I'm sure l'affaire McKinnon isn't the only reason that MacKinley is quitting.
Indeed, the wonder is that anyone wants to remain an MP. Still, how heartwarming
to see an elected representative making a stand on behalf of someone less
powerful than himself.

Why, though, does no one make a similar stand on behalf of Andrew Symeou,
astudent from Enfieldwho, earlier this week, was extradited to Greece under the
European Arrest Warrant? I have touched on Mr Symeou's case before. He is
accused of having pushed over a man who later died. Fair Trials International
says that the case against Mr Symeou is built on conflicting evidence, contested
witness statements, flawed procedures and, in all probability, mistaken identity
(see here).

Nowadays, though, none of this matters. Under Brussels procedures, there is no
need to present any prima facie evidence whatever before a British court. The EU
is treated as a single jurisdiction: a warrant served by a Greek judge is as
valid in Enfield as in Epirus.

I am utterly at a loss to understand why the Symeou case is not as much of a
cause clbre as the McKinnon. We were outraged at the idea of locking people up
for 42 days without charge. But Mr Symeou now faces months of confinement before
his case comes to court. Alright, he has been formally charged; but, from his
point of view, the fact of an accusation makes little practical difference.

Where are our civil liberties campaigners? Where are the Guardian's crusading
journalists? Where are the LibDems? Where Michael Mansfield? Where Helena
Kennedy? I can't help wondering whether some Lefties are hanging back because
they are reluctant to line up alongside UKIP. Could it be that their disdain for
anything that smacks of Euroscepticism blinds them to the threat which Brussels
poses to our freedoms?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 25, 2009 Saturday 2:13 PM GMT

Anti-UKIP and pro-Green: the BBC at its most blatantly biased

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 532 words


Several weeks ago, the BBC decided to start running stories about how well the
Green Party would do at the Norwich North by-election. It is far from clear
whether programme editors thought that this would happen anyway, or whether they
hoped to make it happen. After all, what minority candidates most crave is
airtime: to be treated as mainstream, andso to anticipate the "wasted vote"
argument.

The BBC obliged. Lord, how it obliged. Throughout the campaign, it ran
programmes with Conservative, Labour, LibDem and Green spokesmen. Now don't get
me wrong: I rather like the Greens. But there was no basis to the claim that
they were the fourth party, either nationally or locally. The last test of
electoral feeling wasJune'sEuropean election. The United Kingdom Independence
Party won 13 seats and came second; the Greens won two seats and came fifth. In
local elections on the same day, UKIP beat the Greens in most Norwich North
wards.

UKIP activists politely drew these facts to the BBC's attentionin the hope of
fairer coverage. They misunderstood the Corporation's mindset. In Beebworld,
Greens are essentially nice, and deserve a fair crack of the whip. But UKIP
areanti-immigration, anti-Brussels and, worst of all, sceptical about climate
change. They are not Our Sort Of People, and should be covered accordingly, if
at all.

Newsnight, Look East and Radio 4 all chose to disregard UKIP and treat the
Greens as the main story. Three days before the poll, the BBC's Eastern region
TV held a hustings meeting for four candidates: Conservative, Labour, LibDem and
Green.

What was the result in the event? UKIP won 11.8 per cent of the vote -
comfortablyahead of the Greens and remarkably close to the LibDems (or
"worryingly close" as I just heard a Radio 5 Live presenter put it).

Didour state broadcasterapologise for its mistake? No, alright, that would have
been expectingtoo much; but was it, at least, a little abashed in its tone?
Nope. It simply edited UKIP out of its coverage. On the one o'clock news, a
little bar chart came up to represent the results:bluefor the Conservatives, red
for Labour, yellow for the LibDems and, er,green for the fifth-placed Greens.
Theparty that had come fourth, and been just 800 votes behind the LibDems,
wasn't represented. Nor was UKIP mentioned on the contemporaneous radio news.

Like everyone else, I'm habituated to a measure of one-sidedness from the BBC.
When, earlier this week, one of its senior controllers called publicly on the
Corporation to "foster left-of-centre thinking", I didn't become especially
exercised. This, though,goes beyond the general Leftiness which we've come to
expectin drama, comedy and consumer affairs programmes. It is an issue of
measurable bias between political parties,of empirically identifiable
partisanship.

I hold no brief for UKIP, but this disputetranscends party loyalties.It is one
engagement in a wider Kulturkampf. The BBC simply can't bring itself to be fair
to to those it regards as being outside the Left-liberal comity. All of us,
including those who fight against UKIP at elections, should be angry on that
party's behalf. If you haven't yet joined Charles Moore's licence fee boycott,
do so now.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 25, 2009 Saturday 1:08 AM GMT

Norwich North by-election: six reasons why Gordon Brown is still Labour leader

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 417 words


I'm not sure that the scale of the thing has been properly grasped. If the
Norwich North by-election swing were repeated at a general election, David
Cameron would get in with a majority of 190. Jack Straw would be ousted from
Blackburn and Alistair Darling from Edinburgh; Ed Balls would lose Morley and Ed
Miliband Doncaster; the likeable John Denham would be replaced in Southampton by
the brilliant and energetic (and equally likeable) Royston Smith. We might even
end up with Gordon Brown continuing to lead the Labour Party on grounds no one
was left to challenge him.

How extraordinary that the Fifeshire feartie should still be PM. It is now clear
that, under his leadership, well over half of Labour's MPs will lose their
seats.Why, then,do they putup with him? Take your pick from the following
explanations.

1. They fear for their pensions. Labour is not a single organism, but a
collection of selfish genes. Although it is plainly in the party's collective
interest to dump its leader, many of its individual MPs know that they will
never work again. Why change leader and go to the country now when they can hang
on to their pay and pension contributions for another eight months?

2. It's all a scheme by Peter Mandelson to wedge the Broon in place, like one of
those pickled Soviet leaders, until the Irish referendum. (See here for the
theory in full).

3. Labour MPs are cabestros. (The men, anyway. Some of the women have shown
themselves to be far more courageous: vacas bravas.)

4. The modern political system rewards sycophancy and punishes initiative. Every
day you spend as an MP saps your capacity for independent action until you
reacha point when, even when your political survival depends on it, you simply
can't bring yourself to defy your Whips.

5. No one wants to take over at a time like this.

6.GordonBrown is brilliant at, if nothing else,lowering expectations.

This last point is not intended flippantly. Political commentators have
redefined "winning" to mean "beating the last opinion poll" - as opposed to,
youknow, winning. Hence the asinine comments we've been getting all day about
howit's not as bad for Labour as many feared, how Cameron will be disappointed
not to have been above 40 per cent, blah blah.

How much clearer does the result have to be, for Heaven's sake? This was a
dreadful result forLib-Lab and a terrific result for the Tories (and UKIP, of
which more in my next blog). But the very best thing about it is that it
willprobably allow Gordon Brown to cling on.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Stick to your course. There's a stiff wind ahead;
Norwich North shows the voters are not flapping when the Tories have the honesty
to admit hard economic truths

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1036 words


Well, Mr Cameron, it's working. You're on course, and you surely know it. From
the returning officer in Norwich yesterday the Tories received desperately
important news. The news is that there is no news.

Everything is under control. No unexpected Labour strengths and no ghastly new
Tory weaknesses emerged, no flaws in the Conservative strategy. All systems go.

So we can see you're winning, Mr Cameron. The voters notice you're fielding
capable, stylish women in winnable seats. They see your party looking younger.
They sense a new mood of moderation. They register your appeal to women voters,
to floating voters, to gay voters, immigrant voters, liberal and progressive
voters, and younger voters. They accept that you have your extremists under
control. The electorate buys your brand of Conservatism and most see you as a
decent sort of person: normal, pleasant, bright, with a bright and pleasant
family.

They notice, too - we did during this by-election campaign - that you work hard,
never give up, are not panicked by the media and don't buckle under pressure. We
get the basalt beneath the blancmange. You're hard as nails, hard as a prime
minister must be. In Norwich we saw how you've whipped your party into a
well-resourced fighting machine mounting an effectively organised campaign.

So you're on your way. Labour is nowhere. The Lib Dems are struggling. UKIP is
not breaking through. The flight to splinter parties by disillusioned voters is
hurting your rivals more than you. You've survived the expenses scandal. For
your party no big crisis or internal challenge looms.

You'll be prime minister soon. You can stop fretting that you may not make it
that far. The campaign could hardly have gone better. What more could you want?
A lot more.

It may not seem like that, but the Principal Opposition are in a race against
time: a race not to win the coming general election - I believe that's won
already - but a race to establish themselves before that election as the
ideological force they will prove in government.

If the Tories are to succeed in the difficult years that will follow, much will
depend on their having introduced their ideas properly to us before asking for
the democratic mandate to govern. Much will depend on our feeling that they were
open with us: told us what they were; and asked us to choose with open eyes.

A year ago critics could have complained that David Cameron, George Osborne and
their team had hardly begun to do this. That complaint could not fairly be made
today. As the polls have settled into a dependable lead and the detoxification
strategy has succeeded measurably in redefining the party's and its leaders'
image, Mr Cameron and his team have not freewheeled on policy. Mr Osborne has
stuck his neck out over the overriding need for future cuts in public
expenditure. Mr Cameron has openly admitted and apologised for the Opposition's
slowness to wake up to the looming economic crisis before it happened.

William Hague and Mr Cameron himself have given a bit more clarity (much as many
have disliked it) to European policy. Andrew Lansley has given more clarity than
perhaps he intended to the cuts that will be required if health spending is to
be maintained. Michael Gove has pushed forward the party's ideas for education.
We know where the Tories stand on ID cards, bank regulation and even, to some
degree, on tax rates. Line by line the blanks in the manifesto are being filled.

But there is so much more to do. In hard times, leadership in a democracy may
involve not running before the wind, but sailing, so far as you dare, into it.
Even readers like me who are not sailors will know that it is possible to head,
under sail, not straight into the wind, but slightly off it. You keep tightening
your course into the wind until the sail begins to flap, then ease off a bit and
hug as tight as you can to the wind.

I have the sense that Mr Osborne and Mr Cameron have, as the economic crisis
deepened, been testing the wind like this. How much dared they say about
spending cuts? Tightening their course slightly, they spoke of "constraints" and
"tough decisions" - and still the sails stayed firm.

Then the Shadow Chancellor, sailing into a stiffening breeze, spoke openly of
"cuts". Still the sail did not flap; the craft held her course. Two recent
polls, one in this newspaper, have suggested that the electorate are not
flapping either, and perfectly ready to hear talk of the tough times ahead.

Well, Norwich North was the first real-ballot test of how well this honesty is
working. And the result suggests that Tory support is staying firm.

So now - in the remaining months before the end of the year - is the time for
Conservatives to keep their nerve and, emboldened by how sanguine the electorate
has so far proved, set as stiff a course as they dare in preparation for
government.

Last week we saw an example of government trying to bury bad news - rushing out,
as Parliament rose, a string of awkward announcements in the hope that their
impact would be lost in the jumble.

The Tories should spend the months ahead doing exactly the opposite. They should
declare and emphasise as much as they dare of what may be unwelcome in their
plans. If there are big and controversial ideas to float - as in health policy,
for instance, there surely must be - now, not in the angry confusion of an
election campaign, is the time to get them out into the open.

By-election results are of different types. There are those that hit the
political world like a tropical storm - meteorological freaks whose thunderclaps
reshape attitudes and expectations. And there are those that, like insistent
summer rain, remind us only that the Earth continues in its orbit, the seasons
turn, and the impression grows that the country is readying itself for a change
of government. Norwich North was of that second kind. The sense it projects is
of a kind of inevitability.

So step forward David Cameron, George Osborne, Andrew Lansley, Liam Fox. From
Norwich comes the roll of drums. The spotlight is on you. The audience is
sympathetic. Level with them.

You're hard as nails. We get the basalt beneath the blancmange

Now is the time for Tories to set as stiff a course as they dare

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chloe Smith: a suitably stylish candidate for the new look Tories

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Small parties dilute Tory gain from voters' anger

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 227 words


The most striking feature of the Norwich North by-election was not just the
Conservative victory but also the collapse in the Labour vote and surge in
support for other parties. This confirms the trends in the local and European
elections on June 4. Nothing immediate is going to happen. Parliament has begun
its 12-week summer recess. Labour MPs are too exhausted to mount a challenge to
Gordon Brown, even if they had the will. But this just means that the rumbling
will resume in September.

The result is full of ambiguities.

At one level, it looks similar to the Tory victory in Crewe and Nantwich in May
last year, when there was a swing of 17.6 per cent from Labour to the Tories,
like the 16.5 per cent on Thursday. But the pattern was different. In Crewe, the
Tory share of the vote rose by nearly 17 points; in Norwich it was 6.3 points.

The collapse in the Labour vote in Norwich North was much larger - down 26.7
points - than the 18.3-point fall in Crewe but there was not a simple switch to
the Tories. The gainers were other parties, such as the UK Independence Party
and the Greens, whose share rose from 5 per cent in 2005 to 28 per cent. By
contrast, the 2.2-point fall in the Liberal Democrat share suggests that the
party is not capitalising on the anti-politician mood.

Voter anger over MPs' conduct shows no sign of going away. But who will benefit?

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories romp home in Norwich as Labour voters desert party

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 696 words


Gordon Brown faces a summer of discontent after 70 per cent of Labour supporters
deserted the party in Norwich North, handing a bigger than expected by-election
triumph to the Conservatives.

Chloe Smith, 27, became the youngest MP after winning the Norfolk seat with a
majority of 7,348, overturning Labour's 5,459 majority at the 2005 general
election. The by-election, the 15th in this Parliament and the second seat the
Tories have taken from Labour, cuts Labour's working majority in the Commons to
62.

The result brought a swing from Labour to the Conservatives of 16.5 per cent -
the worst result for Labour since the Crewe & Nantwich by-election in May last
year, which the Tories won with a swing of 17.6 per cent.

Mr Brown said that the by-election was "clearly a disappointing result". It was
triggered after the sitting Labour MP, Ian Gibson, who had represented Norwich
North since 1997, was barred from standing for Labour at the next general
election after selling his taxpayer-funded London flat to his daughter at a
knockdown price. Alan Simpson, another left-wing MP, urged Labour to overturn
the ban and allow Dr Gibson stand at the next election.

The result is certainly a coup for the Conservatives, who had been briefing as
recently as Wednesday that they expected a majority of less than 4,000. They
will also be pleased at the fall in support for the UK Independence Party, which
came second in the European election but fourth yesterday.

Mr Cameron called it an historic victory. Visiting the constituency, he
declared: "This country has had enough of Gordon Brown's dividing lines. This
country has had enough of misleading claims about opponents. This country has
had enough about misleading claims about Tory cuts."

The party said that Labour had misled voters by claiming that the Conservatives
would cut the Sure Start centres and public services while Labour would invest.
The only crumb of comfort for Labour was that the number of Conservative votes
actually fell in comparison with the election of 2005, from 15,638 to 13,591,
although turnout dropped by even more, from 61.1 per cent to 45.8 per cent.

Labour will also be relieved not to have been pushed into third place by the
Liberal Democrats. Harriet Harman, the deputy Labour leader, said that the party
was suffering disproportionately from the expenses scandal, but, privately,
party figures blamed a weak, untested candidate and a lack of energy in a
campaign with few Cabinet visits.

The defeat is likely to renew mutterings among Labour MPs about Mr Brown's
leadership, though MPs are unlikely to mount another coup before the summer -
seven weeks after the last one failed. Mr Brown faces at least three significant
flashpoints before the general election:

Renewed pressure over his leadership in the build-up to the party conference in
September.

After conference, usually loyal backbench MPs, who have so far kept their
unhappiness with Mr Brown private, are considering using key internal elections
to the "parliamentary committee" to signal that he should go.

Cabinet ministers could go to Mr Brown in January and tell him to stand down,
giving a new leader only three months to a general election. Political allies of
Mr Brown also believe there is a slim chance he will stand aside voluntarily.

Ms Smith, a Deloitte consultant seconded to the Conservatives
"imple-mentatiounit", takes the crown of Britain's youngest MP from Jo Swinson,
the 29-year old Liberal Democrat.

The Tory victory is another triumph for the party's formidable and wellfunded
electoral machine.

Mr Cameron made six trips to the constituency, including a flying visit on
Thursday morning when 100 MPs took part in a "dawn raid" to distribute leaflets.
However, the results in percentage terms were almost identical to the county
council elections.

Norwich North result

Chloe Smith C 13,591 Chris Ostrowski Lab 6,243 April Pond LD 4,803 Glenn Tingle
UKIP 4,068 Rupert Read Green 3,350 Craig Murray (Ind) 953, Robert West (BNP)
941, Bill Holden (Ind) 166, Howling Laud (Loony) 144, Anne Fryatt (NOTA) 59,
Thomas Burridge (Libertarian) 36, Peter Baggs (Ind) 23 Conservative majority
7,348 Swing Lab to C 16.49% Turnout 34,377

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron proudly presents his newest and youngest MP, Chloe Smith
CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Norwich North Goes South;
Labour had hoped that its own poor performance in the latest by-election would
be masked by a mediocre Tory one. It wasn't

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 609 words


During the long wait for the counting of ballots from the Norwich North
by-election to be completed, Labour campaigners chatted amiably with their
rivals. One Liberal Democrat reported that "Labour people are down but saying it
was nearly so much worse".

Let's see. The Labour Party created a by-election it did not want, by ousting an
MP it did not need to oust. It proceeded to select an activist from London to
fill a vacancy created by a popular local figure. During the course of the
by-election it was, for long periods at a time, incapable of mustering a large
enough campaign force to deliver a leaflet across the whole constituency. The
Labour candidate then caught swine flu. The party's vote fell from 46 per cent
to just over 18 per cent, one of the worst showings by a governing party in
modern history. When the result was announced, the Labour candidate was unable
to be present. He was replaced by his wife who, at the moment when thanks are
traditionally conveyed to the polling staff, instead had to thank Norwich's
ambulance service.

How, precisely, do Labour campaigners think it could have been worse? Labour had
presumably intended to take comfort from a Conservative performance that
every-oneincluding the Tories themselves, expected to be unspectacular. In the
event, they were denied this solace.

Three things conspired to help the Conservative Party to a thumping majority and
an impressive swing. The first was the sheer scale of Labour's collapse.
Ministers often remark that while voters like David Cameron, they are still not
entirely convinced. The electorate, Labour feels certain, is unsure about the
Conservative Party. This intuition is correct. It is also irrelevant so long as
Labour itself is quite as unpopular as it is.

A party capable of securing about 25 per cent support in one opinion poll after
another is not going to win anything, no matter how unsure people are about the
alternative. Labour needs to think about ways of increasing its own appeal,
rather than trying to find ways of attacking the Conservative Party that
increasingly resemble one of Baldrick's cunning plans from Blackadder.

The second reason for the size of the Tory victory was that the Conservatives
ran an impressive campaign. For years the party has been very poor at
by-elections, but now its able campaign organiser, Stephen Gilbert, seems to
have put this right.

In a general election, of course, Mr Cameron will not be able to be in Norwich
at 6 o'clock in the morning on polling day personally delivering leaflets. The
use of Tory MPs to replace missing activists in Norwich North reached absurd
levels. And this requirement - symbolising the erosion of the party base - may
one day come to haunt Mr Cameron. For the moment, however, this day seems a long
way off. The Tories had the money, the people, the morale and the ingenuity to
lift their result from the ordinary victory Labour could have tried to brush
off, to the striking one they achieved. Labour must worry that it will lose the
ground war in a general election too.

The final cause of the large Conservative majority was the failure of the
defectors from two-party politics - particularly those enraged by the allowances
scandal - to coalesce around a single alternative. The Greens missed their
moment by choosing too militant a candidate, UKIP did well but has limited
appeal, and none of the independents who were so vocal a few weeks ago was ready
to try his luck. This was a stroke of good fortune for the Tories. As they
celebrate a good result, they should remember that there is still public anger
that they need to address and many that they still need to convince.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tories in the pink after poll triumph

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words


Gordon Brown faces a summer of discontent after 70 per cent of Labour supporters
deserted the party in Norwich North, handing a bigger than expected by-election
triumph to the Conservatives.

Chloe Smith, 27, became the youngest MP after winning the Norfolk seat with a
majority of 7,348, overturning Labour's 5,459 majority at the 2005 general
election. The by-election, the 15th in this Parliament and the second seat the
Tories have taken from Labour, cuts Labour's working majority in the Commons to
62.

The result brought a swing from Labour to the Conservatives of 16.5 per cent -
the worst result for Labour since the Crewe & Nantwich by-election in May last
year, which the Tories won with a swing of 17.6 per cent.

Mr Brown said that the by-election was "clearly a disappointing result". It was
triggered after the sitting Labour MP, Ian Gibson, who had represented Norwich
North since 1997, was barred from standing for Labour at the next general
election after selling his taxpayer-funded London flat to his daughter at a
knockdown price.

The result is certainly a coup for the Conservatives, who had been briefing as
recently as Wednesday that they expected a majority of less than 4,000. They
will also be pleased at the fall in support for the UK Independence Party, which
came second in the European election but fourth yesterday.

David Cameron called it an historic victory. Visiting the constituency, the
Conservative leader declared: "This country has had enough of Gordon Brown's
dividing lines. This country has had enough of misleading claims about
opponents. This country has had enough about misleading claims about Tory cuts."

The party said that Labour had misled voters by claiming that the Conservatives
would cut the Sure Start centres and public services while Labour would invest.

The only crumb of comfort for Labour was that the number of Conservative votes
actually fell in compari-sowith the election of 2005, from 15,638 to 13,591,
although turnout dropped by even more, from 61.1 per cent to 45.8 per cent.

Labour will also be relieved not to have been pushed into third place by the
Liberal Democrats. Harriet Harman, the deputy Labour leader, said that the party
was suffering disproportionately from the expenses scandal, but privately party
figures blamed a weak, untested candidate and a lack of energy in a campaign
with few Cabinet visits.

The defeat is likely to renew mutterings among Labour MPs about Mr Brown's
leadership, though MPs are unlikely to mount another coup before the summer. Mr
Brown faces at least three significant flashpoints before the general election:

renewed pressure over his leadership in the build-up to the party conference in
September;

after conference, usually loyal backbench MPs are considering using key internal
elections to the "parliamentary committee" to signal that he should go;

Cabinet ministers could go to Mr Brown in January and tell him to stand down,
giving a new leader only three months to a general election.

The Conservatives indicated last night that they would hold a Budget soon after
winning a general election to rein in spending and reassure the markets. Phillip
Hammond, the Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury, told The Guardian: "It is
absolutely essential that we send a signal to the markets that we have a
credible plan to resolve the fiscal crisis and the debt crisis over a sensible
period."

Andrew MacKinlay, the Labour MP for Thurrock, told his constituency party
yesterday that he would stand down at the next election. The MP, who grilled Dr
David Kelly during his appearance before the House of Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee in 2003, said that he was "physically and mentally burnt out".

Norwich North result

Chloe Smith C 13,591

Chris Ostrowski Lab 6,243

April Pond LD 4,803

Glenn Tingle UKIP 4,068

Rupert Read Green 3,350, Craig

Murray (Ind) 953, Robert West (BNP) 941, Bill Holden (Ind) 166, Howling Laud
(Loony) 144, Anne Fryatt (NOTA) 59, Thomas Burridge (Libertarian) 36, Peter
Baggs (Ind) 23

Conservative majority 7,348

Swing Lab to C 16.49%

Turnout 34,377 (45.76%, down 15.33%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron proudly presents his newest and youngest MP, Chloe Smith,
in Norwich yesterday
CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 24, 2009 Friday

Voters stay away from the 'expenses by-election'

BYLINE: Rosa Prince Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201  words


TURNOUT in the Norwich North by-election was said to be "very low'' yesterday,
as voters showed their anger at politicians over the expenses scandal by staying
away in droves.

All parties were playing down their prospects of success, although the
Conservatives were predicting victory by a modest margin.

Outsider candidates, including the UK Independence Party and the Greens, were
expected to fare better than usual, with many traditional Labour supporters
deciding not to vote.

A party source said: "It looks very bad for Labour.'' Sources suggested turnout
was far lower than the 61 per cent that voted in the last general election.

The contest, which has been called the "expenses by-election'', was triggered by
the resignation of Labour's Dr Ian Gibson.

The MP stood down in protest after he was barred by the party from being a
candidate at the next general election. He was disciplined following The Daily
Telegraph's disclosure that his daughter and her boyfriend had lived with him in
his taxpayer-funded second home, which he later sold to them at about half the
market value.

Opinion polls had suggested that the safe Labour seat was likely to be won by
the Tory candidate, 27-year-old Chloe Smith.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 24, 2009 Friday

Cameron hails 'historic' victory for Tories in Norwich North

LENGTH: 682 words

ABSTRACT

Public has had enough of Gordon Brown, says Tory leader as he congratulates his
newest MP, 27-year-old Chloe Smith

FULL TEXT

David Cameron today hailed the Tories' byelection victory in Norwich North as a
"historic" result for his party and insisted it showed that the public had "had
enough" of Gordon Brown.

On his seventh visit to the constituency since the contest began, the Tory
leader heaped praise on his newest MP, 27-year-old Chloe Smith, for turning a
Labour majority of 5,000 into a majority of more than 7,000 for the
Conservatives.

"This in a seat that has been controlled by Labour for 45 of the last 60 years,"
he said.

Cameron added: "We have seen an absolutely historic victory in Norwich North. It
shows this country has had enough of Gordon Brown's dividing lies. This country
has had enough of misleading claims about opponents. This country has had enough
about misleading claims about Tory cuts."

Cameron spoke after his party inflicted a humiliating byelection defeat on the
prime minister.

In the first electoral test in a Westminster seat since the MPs' expenses
scandal rocked the House of Commons, Smith won the Norfolk seat with a majority
of 7,348 and became the youngest MP in the Commons.

Labour's defeat, in a seat held comfortably by the party since 1997, is the
fifth byelection blow Brown has suffered since he took over at No 10.

If the result was repeated across the country in a general election, the Tories
would be swept to power with a Commons majority of 218.

The Tories would have 434 MPs, with Labour on 107, the Liberal Democrats 79, and
others 30.

Responding to the news, the prime minister admitted it was a disappointing
result but said no party could take a "great deal of cheer" from it because all
three of the main parties had lost votes.

"The Conservative vote went down, the Liberal vote went down; only the fringe
parties saw their votes going up," he said.

"I think it's a lesson that we have all got to observe. We have got to clean up
Westminster politics and we are doing that. But we have got to keep our eye on
what is important to people and that is the economic recovery.

"We've got to deal with all problems that arise. That includes swine flu, where
we're acting in a calm, organised and ordered way to deal with the problem and
help people in every part of the country."

Cameron visited the constituency six times during the campaign, which was
triggered by the resignation of Labour's Ian Gibson following the MPs' expenses
scandal. The popular MP had a 5,459 majority at the last election in 2005.

Following today's count, Smith won with a total 13,591 votes. Labour's Chris
Ostrowski, who missed the final days of campaigning due to swine flu, received
6,243 votes and the Liberal Democrat candidate April Pond came third with 4,803
votes.

The UK Independence party pipped the Greens to fourth place by 4,068 votes to
3,350.

The 16.49% swing from Labour to the Conservatives at Norwich North was just
short of the 17.61% at last year's Crewe and Nantwich byelection.

Turnout was 45.88% - down almost a third on the 2005 general election figure of
61.09%.

Labour supporters are thought to have stayed at home in protest against the
party's treatment of Gibson, who stood down as an MP after Labour ruled that he
would not be allowed to stand for the party at the next election because he had
used parliamentary expenses to fund a flat that he subsequently sold to his
daughter at a discount.

In her acceptance speech, Smith paid tribute to her predecessor, saying he was a
"strong, independent" voice. She pledged to represent the people of Norwich
North with the same honesty and conviction as he had.

"I will be a tireless champion for local people," she said. "You have invested
great responsibility in me. It will be an honour to serve you and I will not let
you down."

Ben Bradshaw, the culture secretary, insisted that the party had been right to
take tough action against MPs over their expenses despite today's result.

Jo Swinson, the 29-year-old Liberal Democrat MP had held the unofficial title of
"baby of the house" until today.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 24, 2009 Friday

Norwich North byelection: A grim result for Brown - a pretty good one for the
Tories

LENGTH: 672 words

ABSTRACT

Prime minister being blamed for defeat after deselection of popular local MP
over expenses

FULL TEXT

A grim result in Norwich North for Labour, even without its candidate's bout of
swine flu. But what about for David Cameron? Pretty good actually. He took a
punt on East Anglia, an area with radical traditions and a streak of
bloodymindedness, even visited the campaign six times himself.

The result? A thumping majority of 7,348, a swing of 16%, all on a contest
caused by a Gordon Brown own goal. This on top of a recession that trumped even
a booming region.

Cameron's new MP, 27-year-old Chloe Smith, won the byelection triggered by Ian
Gibson's resignation over the expenses row. He felt hard done by in being
deselected as Labour's candidate during the expenses crisis. Yet - as one
visiting Labour MP pointed out - Gibson was so popular locally as a maverick
with charm that he would have walked it as an independent.

Even Smith paid tribute to him as she declared "a victory for honest politics" -
and urged voters to eject her if she fails to deliver them herself. Looming
boundary changes make that a brave challenge. Wealthier suburban wards outside
the city that helped delivery Tory victories here in the 80s are now being
uncoupled again from poorer Labour wards and council estates.

But that is for another day. The Tory share of vote today on a 45% turnout
(about average in this situation) was 39.54% compared with 33.2% in 2005 when
Gibson, a leftwing troublemaker from the local university, took 44.9%.

Today his successor, 28-year-old Chris Ostrowski, took 18.16% - down 26.7% - as
the Lib Dems failed to push Labour into third place and Ukip squeezed the Greens
(well entrenched locally) into fifth. A self-styled "Nutter" candidate garnered
59 votes, barely half the Monster Raving Looney's 144.

Tory statisticians are saying the result would deliver a 100-seat majority for
Cameron nationwide. Labour voters defected straight to the Tories, MPs were
quick to claim (and Labour to deny). "We were honest about public spending," in
contrast to Labour smears, says Theresa May. Norwich North was the
Conservatives' 162nd target seat - after Alistair Darling's in Edinburgh.

Professor Vernon Bogdador, "Bogbrush" to some academic colleagues, has been on
TV today in his role as constitutional firefighter, rightly reminding us all
that since Labour lost badly at Crewe and Nantwich last summer - worse than in
Norwich - normal service has been resumed after the years in which Tony Blair's
smile kept it (mostly) at bay.

Brown is already being blamed ("Brown is blamed for poll turmoil" shouted the
London Evening Standard, well before the result) on the grounds that he let
party officials running what Gibson's friends called "a kangaroo court" deselect
him after the expenses row found he had sold his taxpayer-funded flat to his
daughter below market price.

In their anxiety to show that they were as tough as Cameron (presumably tipped
off by the Daily Telegraph) over expenses, the apparatchiks picked on the wrong
man. Gibson is old enough (70), bouncy enough and self-confident enough not to
be pushed around. Local activists supported him. He stood down, backed
Ostrowski, but did not campaign for him. Voters of all parties said they like
him - so do most of us in the Westminster village. Unless you are a whip he is
hard to dislike.

Yet it is normal for voters to give governments a kicking at byelections. The
Tories did not win one after Epping in December 1988, but they hung on to power
for another nine years - including John Major's unexpected general election win
in 1992. Brown loyalists cling to this analogy.

"I do not despair yet, but if I ever saw a government determined to throw its
life away this is it. Our disunity is so damaging," one ex-cabinet member said
this morning.

Smith is now the youngest MP, a symbol of change after a period of dreadful
shame for politics. She called for extra capital public expenditure for Norwich,
not quite on Cameron message yet. Some things don't change.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 24, 2009 Friday 2:10 PM GMT

Norwich North shows UKIP could be a real force (if they wanted to be)

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 300 words


Despite the massive and disproportionate attention given by the press to the
loony left Green party, the media's favourites were easily beaten into fifth
place.As Sian Berry, Green London mayoral candidate in 2008, and "founder of
Alliance Against Urban 4x4s", tweeted a few minutes ago: "Can't believe crappy
UKIP still beat us in NN - grrr! Con 39.54% Lab 18.16% LD 13.97% UKIP 11.83%
Green 9.74% Others 6.75%."

Indeed, but as I always say to lefties who are shocked to find someone
disagreeing with them - get out some more and speak to people outside your
circle, because most of them don't agree with your world view. So why did
"crappy" UKIP do so well? The Common Agricultural Policy might have given East
Anglians a particular grudge against the EU, but I wonder how many of those
people were actually voting against the EU (since the Euro-elections are over)
and how many were making a broader conservative protest against the big three?
This was not a safe Tory seat, by any means; most people were predicting a
majority of at most 3,000, and usually at the first sight of the Tories being
threatened most of their UKIP-curious voters come back in the fold. For UKIP to
get almost 12 per cent of the vote shows there is a real thirst for a genuinely
conservative party.

As I've written before, UKIP could become a genuine national party but they have
to drop their single-issue tag and offer an alternative to the big three, the
BBC and the liberal consensus. It no longer matters that the culture war is over
and the Left controls all the institutions, from universities to the police to
the media - the internet has changed everything. The overwhelmingly conservative
UK blogosphere has given conservatives a chance to wage a culture insurgence -
and win.

So, what are you waiting for, Nigel?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Good works are all very well, George, but we're
nervous. Can't you just read the news?

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 661 words


* Happy times for the Fairtrade movement as Cadbury's jumps on board, making
Dairy Milk and Fruit & Nut important components both in the fight to uplift the
developing world. But the news is not all good. Not at all. For we learn that
our newsreader of choice, George Alagiah (pictured), has been required by the
BBC functionaries to resign as patron of the Fairtrade Foundation. George is
extremely upset about this and fought the decision, but to no avail. He believes
his role and profile helps developing-world farmers get a decent price for their
produce, but the Beeb is adamant that enough's enough, as the role leaves
Alagiah conflicted. So Jeremy Clarkson can take the Murdoch shilling for penning
articles in the Sunday Times. John Humphrys can write commentaries for YouGov.
But Alagiah can't be a figurehead for a movement connecting British shoppers
with farmers in the developing world. Oh dear. Auntie is all confused again.

* Yet more anguish in Brussels as Marta Andreassen, the acclaimed uncoverer of
financial wrongs at the EU, sacked by Lord Kinnock and now a Ukip MEP, is
thwarted in her bid to take the vice-presidency of the budget committee. A
secret ballot was held. Marta, once chief accounting officer of the European
commission, came off worse. You're all frit that she will lift the lid, says
Ukip, at once aggrieved and triumphant. No, we're frit that she will use the
position to score cheap headlines of the "Ukip halts the gravy train" variety,
say others. But what's done is done. Her bid for the limelight will just have to
wait.

* A good time was had by all at the National Liberal Club on Monday as Lib Dem
heavyweights congregated to celebrate the founding of the Liberal party 150
years ago. Among those present were Charles Kennedy, Lord Steel, Bob Maclennan,
party president Ros Scott and Brian Sedgemore. Slightly awkward to all there as
Lord Steel recalled that he'd "attended a centenary bash in 1976". Perhaps the
party historians had got it wrong. "Well, I think it was 1976 - Jeremy Thorpe
organised it, I believe - but my memory may be faulty," he told us afterwards.
Still, forget the calendar, those Liberal Democrats love a party. Any excuse.

* With Lord Malloch-Brown initially appearing to suggest that the war in
Afghanistan is being fought with too few helicopters and then saying that, on
reflection, they have enough, and Lord Foulkes upping the ante by accusing the
chief of the general staff, General Sir Richard Dannatt, of giving succour to
the Taliban, some are wondering what is the strategy for the conflict. What is
the playbook, as the Americans say? Is it based on conflicts past? Indeed, some
see the general chaos of it all as reminiscent of the closing scenes in the Marx
Brothers classic Duck Soup, where Groucho as Freedonian war leader Rufus T
Firefly despairs of the way in which his war is being prosecuted. "Message from
the front, Sir!" says a lieutenant, fresh from the fighting. "I'm sick of
messages from the front," says Firefly. "Don't we ever get a message from the
side?" Gordon gets messages from all directions. All bad.

* Yes there are too few helicopters, some would argue, but yesterday the PM
promised more will be sent by the end of the year. Last week, he and five of his
security officers were spied in London's Hamleys, the toy shop, and they left
the store with supplies of Lego. He will equip our troops in any way he can.

* Finally, because we are all searching for something but few of us really know
what it is, we announce the arrival of the perfect product: God Trumps. A
24-card pack - an initiative from New Humanist magazine, or as they put it "the
headquarters of British blasphemy". Are you "struggling to choose the top
religion?" it asks. "Can't decide between Bible-thumping evangelism and soaraway
Scientology, Mormanism or Methodism?" We practise them all, but then we are at
ease with this, our modern Britain. We limit ourselves to one a day.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Brown braced for defeat as polls open in Norwich North byelection

LENGTH: 597 words

ABSTRACT

Tory candidate expected to win in poll triggered by resignation of MP caught up
in expenses scandal

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown is bracing himself for electoral defeat as polls opened today in
the Norwich North byelection.

Labour has held the seat comfortably since 1997 but the party is expected to pay
a heavy price for the MPs' expenses controversy in the first Westminster
byelection since the Commons was rocked by the scandal.

David Cameron is due to visit the constituency for the sixth time this morning,
giving a final boost to a campaign seen by Conservative headquarters as an
important test of the party's ability to withstand a Labour attack based on a
"Tory cuts" message.

Unusually, the votes will be counted tomorrow rather than at the close of the
polls this evening, partly because staffing a daytime count is easier. This has
not happened at a byelection in recent years.

The byelection was caused by the resignation of Ian Gibson, a leftwinger who
quit parliament after Labour ruled that he would not be allowed to stand at the
next election because he used parliamentary expenses to fund a flat which he
subsequently sold at a discount to his daughter.

Gibson, who was popular in the constituency, had a majority of 5,459 in 2005,
and Labour's decision to ban him as a candidate appears to have backfired, with
some voters telling the party that they will not vote for his replacement,
28-year-old Chris Ostrowski, because they think Gibson was treated unfairly.

The Conservatives seem confident of victory. But they are nervous of comparisons
with the Crewe and Nantwich byelection last year, when the Tories overturned a
Labour majority of more than 7,000, winning by 7,860 with a swing of 17.6%.

"Crewe and Nantwich took place against the backdrop of the abolition of the 10p
rate of tax and voters were so angry that they came straight over to us. Norwich
North is different because, as a result of expenses, the voters are angry with
all parties," said one senior Tory.

Chloe Smith, the 27-year-old Conservative candidate, has responded to the
challenge of campaigning in a climate of scepticism about politicians by issuing
her own "contract with the people of Norwich North" containing various promises
on policy and expenses.

The Liberal Democrats, who were well behind the Tories in 2005, claimed
yesterday that it was now a Tory-Lib Dem contest, and that Labour could come
third behind their candidate, April Pond.

At the start of the byelection, Labour campaigned aggressively on the theme of
"Tory cuts", in what was seen as a dry run for the general election strategy
being planned by Brown. But the Tories believe that this tactic has been
unsuccessful in Norwich North because they are winning the argument on public
spending nationally.

Labour's campaign suffered a blow when Ostrowski was taken to hospital with
swine flu yesterday. He was recuperating today, but cabinet ministers Andy
Burnham and Alan Johnson were in Norwich North campaigning on his behalf.

"I am very confident that we can win this byelection," said Burnham. Privately,
Labour was trying to make life difficult for Cameron by suggesting that anything
less than a 10,000 majority would be a disappointment for the Tory leader.

The other candidates are: Peter Baggs (Independent), Thomas Burridge
(Libertarian party), Anne Fryatt (None of the Above party), Bill Holden
(Independent), Laud Howling (The Official Monster Raving Loony party), Craig
Murray (Put An Honest Man into Parliament), Rupert Read (Green), Glenn Tingle (
UK Independence party) and Robert West (British National party).

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Your verdict please, Norwich;
Tomorrow's by-election gives voters their first chance since the MPs' expenses
scandal;
broke to tell the parties what they think.

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1251  words


Labour suffered two collapses in Norwich North yesterday. First to go was Chris
Ostrowski, the party's candidate in tomorrow's by-election, who caught a nasty
dose of swine flu and had to be carted off to hospital, and second was his
expected share of the vote. Labour insiders are privately predicting a meltdown
in what is supposed to be a reasonably safe seat, with just 8 per cent of voters
expected to back Gordon Brown. At least Mr Ostrowski has a 24-carat excuse to
avoid what is bound to be one of the most humiliating counts for a Labour
candidate in recent years.

While he wallows in justifiable self-pity, sipping orange squash and adding to
the mountain of used tissues on his bedside table, the Greens, Liberal Democrats
and Ukip will all be enjoying the benefits of Labour's implosion. But it will be
David Cameron, who has invested his personal credibility in the contest,
visiting the constituency no fewer than five times, who will be happiest
tomorrow night. Norwich North (majority 5,549) is the kind of seat the
Conservatives must win if they are to command a majority after the next general
election, and Cameron has spared no effort in securing victory for Tory
candidate Chloe Smith.

Even the Tories, however, should feel some disquiet. The by-election is a direct
result of The Daily Telegraph's investigation into MPs' expenses, and there was
a mood of resentment in the constituency yesterday.

The contest follows the resignation of Ian Gibson, who had represented the seat
since 1997. He claimed thousands of pounds on a flat in London he had designated
as his second home, before selling it at a knock-down price to his daughter. Mr
Gibson, who was widely respected in his constituency, was by no means the most
serious offender in the Labour ranks, but his reputation as a maverick - he is a
traditional Left-winger - earned him few friends in the hierarchy.

He resigned his seat after Labour's National Executive Committee barred him from
standing at the next general election. His action was widely seen as an act of
revenge against Brown - provoking a by-election that will provide more proof of
the Prime Minister's vulnerability, and which may even act as the catalyst for a
leadership challenge.

Charles Clarke, Mr Brown's arch critic and MP for the neighbouring Norwich
South, accused his party's leadership of acting like a "kangaroo court''.
"People do feel that Ian was unfairly treated and many of our voters on the
doorsteps are concerned and are raising that question.''

Like the Tories, Labour has deployed its big guns in an effort to minimise the
scale of defeat, but to little effect. It was Lord Mandelson's turn yesterday,
and what a lonely figure he cut arriving at Norwich railway station. Following
Mr Ostrowski's admission to hospital - where, Labour informed us, he was
receiving "world-class care'' - his campaign team placed itself into voluntary
quarantine.

There was therefore no reception committee for the second most powerful man in
the government. Alan Johnson was expected in the city today, following in the
wake of Alastair Darling, Jack Straw and Harriet Harman. But of Mr Brown there
has, predictably, been no sign.

The Tories will win but turnout is less certain. The expenses scandal still
hangs heavily over Norwich North, and many voters appear to have turned their
backs on all the parties. "I'm not giving any of them my vote,'' said Laurie
Tungate. "They are all as bad as each other.''

Ray Downing voted Labour and may switch to the Tories at the next general
election, but he is not inclined to vote tomorrow. "I struggle on a pension and
this lot line their pockets. Pathetic. They all have their hands in the till.''

Ellen Green has always voted Labour but is dismayed by the treatment of Mr
Gibson, who has voiced support for Mr Ostrowski but signally failed to campaign
on his behalf. "Ian Gibson was a great MP - he always stood up for his
constituents. What he did was wrong morally but he was by no means the worst and
I do not believe he is a man motivated by money. Mr Ostrowski is not an ideal
candidate, and as for Chloe Smith, I find her terribly insincere.'' There is a
feeling here that Labour has shot itself in the foot in its treatment of Mr
Gibson. Defeat will deprive the party of a seat it has held since the Blair
landslide.

Labour held the seat in 1979 but succumbed in 1983. Fourteen years of Tory
ownership followed before Mr Gibson swept in with a majority of 9,470. It fell
to 5,861 in 2001 but stabilised in 2005.

Norwich North is primarily a residential district, mostly comfortable but
containing patches of deprivation. The Norwich area is showing signs of growth,
but the recession still threatens, and crime and anti-social behaviour are a
source of concern. Affordable housing is in short supply. Norwich is a
stronghold of the Green Party, which is the main opposition party in the city
council.

The final days of the campaign have seen increasing acrimony between the
parties. Labour issued a 10-page dossier attacking "Tory smears'' and
counter-attacked by claiming that secret Tory spending plans would result in
cuts in Surestart centres and police numbers in Norwich. The Tories, meanwhile,
accuse Labour of dishonesty.

During his visit, Mr Darling said that voters needed to be aware of the clear
differences between the two on public spending. "Everyone knows that the next
few years are going to be tough, and all political parties are going to have to
make difficult decisions. What's important is that people understand where the
parties' priorities lie. There is a clear difference. The Tories are using the
current problems as cover for what they are going to cut. That's what people
need to think about when they go to the polling booths. People will want to
know, whether it's the Tories, Labour or the Liberal Democrats, where you stand
on the issues that make a difference to people's quality of life.''

Mr Cameron accused his rivals of "desperate stuff'' in their election
literature, praising Miss Smith, who worked in finance before joining the
backroom team at Tory central office, for mounting a positive campaign.
Addressing the expenses issue, he went on: "People are angry with all political
parties and they are quite rightly making the people who want to get elected
work hard. I'm not being complacent, we have to get out there and win every
vote.''

The Lib Dems turned their fire on Mr Ostrowski, who works as a business
development manager for John Lewis, using leaflets to highlight his Tory past
while a student at the University of East Anglia, and accusing him of being a
"London Labour politician''. The Lib Dem candidate, April Pond, suffers a
disadvantage in being in possession of that most unfashionable of political
acoutrements, a moat.

Mr Johnson has let slip that he believes the general election is now eight
months away, with polling day on May 6. That leaves his leader precious little
time to reverse the seemingly inexorable decline in his party's fortunes.

Two national polls give the Tories leads of 15 and 17 points, with Labour
struggling to hold on to second place - with just a single-point margin over the
Lib Dems in one survey. YouGov put the Tories on 42 per cent, Labour on 25 per
cent and the Lib Dems on 18, while ComRes has Conservatives on 38, Labour on 23
and the Lib Dems on 22.

Mr Ostrowski was back at home last night, in bed drinking soup. At 28 years of
age, he should make a speedy recovery. The same cannot be said for his leader
and party.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Could it get any worse for Labour at Norwich North?;
LEADER

BYLINE: Macer Hall Political Editor in Norwich North

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 866  words


A DOSE of swine flu is as close to election fever as the political battle for
Norwich North is going to get. Voters in the East Anglian constituency go to the
polls tomorrow in the last showdown of the political season. So far what should
be a hard-fought contest has been eerily quiet.

But close to polling day there was a dramatic twist yesterday when Labour
candidate Chris Ostrowski became a suspected victim of the pandemic.

Thankfully he was reported last night to be recovering. The same cannot be said
of Labour's dire campaign to defend its 5,459 majority.

Unfortunate Mr Ostrowski's illness is a metaphor for his party's predicament.
Like him Labour is laid low with exhaustion and at the mercy of events beyond
its control.

"Now there's symbolism for you, " Lib Dem treasury spokesman Vince Cable
shrugged yesterday when told about the Labour candidate's illness during a
campaign visit to Norwich. Mr Cable's verdict on the by-election battle so far?

"Labour just seem to have given up."

I spent a rain-soaked day on the stump yesterday and found little evidence of
Labour life in this once stronghold seat.

OPINION polls are tipping 27-year-old Tory candidate Chloe Smith to win the seat
that has been held by Labour since 1997.

Bookmakers have stopped taking bets on her winning tomorrow's by-election, which
was sparked by the resignation of Labour MP Ian Gibson in the row over expenses.

Tory activists are bemused by Labour's lifeless campaign.

"We've been waiting for them to throw everything they've got at us but it just
hasn't happened, " said one insider.

Labour ministers used to refer to their election campaigns operation as a
"killing machine". In this campaign the rusting Labour bandwagon is truly up on
brick supports with all the wheels off.

Norwich may be famous as the home of Colman's Mustard but the Labour campaign
has all the zing of watery custard.

This should be a crucial swing voter battleground yet Labour insiders are
muttering about being shoved into third place or even fourth place behind the
Green Party and the Lib Dems.

Labour insiders blame the "Gibbo" factor for their miserable prospects and dire
lack of enthusiasm, a reference to the departing Dr Gibson. He quit after being
stripped of his candidacy by Labour officials probing MPs' expenses claims.

Dr Gibson had claimed GBP 80,000 from the taxpayerfunded second homes allowance
on a London flat he later sold to his daughter at a knockdown price. Yet despite
his disgrace the former MP remains a popular figure locally and many voters -
and Labour activists - believe he has been victimised.

Every candidate in the byelection is paying tribute to Dr Gibson and trying to
claim his mantle as a maverick champion of local folk. Tory frontbencher Kenneth
Clarke, a seasoned veteran of many elections, detected the lack of political
electricity on a visit to Norwich yesterday.

"Because of recent events there probably is an air of weariness, " he said.
Privately the Conservatives admit their by-election campaign lacks the momentum
of their last triumph in Crewe and Nantwich.

Leaving nothing to chance David Cameron has made a record five visits to the
campaign. Anything less than a significant margin of victory will raise new
doubts about his Downing Street hopes.

But the MPs' expenses saga has stolen momentum from all the main parties. On the
doorsteps the putrid stench of the scandal is a constant theme with voters that
all candidates are struggling to address. Tory Ms Smith is campaigning as the
"clean" candidate. "What people want here is someone who is clean. I want to be
a fresh face in politics, " she said.

The Lib Dems have had to overcome the embarrassment of their candidate April
Pond who has a moat around her Norfolk farmhouse, unfortunate given recent
revelations about some wealthy MPs. "I was born in a council house and led part
of my life in a caravan in a field. As a councillor I've never claimed expenses,
" Ms Pond says. Certainly Westminster's expenses shame is fuelling the
anti-politics rage: the disenchantment reflected in an absence of blue, yellow
or red posters in Norwich windows.

Instead posters of the UK Independence Party and the occasional Green were a far
more common sight yesterday.

BUT for all the antiWestminster fury the biggest target of voters' anger remains
the record o f Gordon Brown. Locals grumble about Government debt, the twin
threats of tax rises and public service cuts, poor schooling and immigration. No
wonder the PM's raddled mugshot has been left off all the party's election
leaflets.

Mr Brown has kept well away from Norwich North. Alistair Darling is one of few
senior Cabinet ministers to have paid a visit. Lord Mandelson was forced to beat
a hasty retreat in the face of the swine flu threat.

When the by-election result is declared on Friday expect ministers to blame
local concerns. But don't be fooled by the "Gibbo" smokescreen. It is the
"Gordo" factor that is really doing for Labour. Friday's result is almost
certain to be grim for Labour. But this chill blast from the edge the Norfolk
Broads is only the first gust in a devastating electoral whirlwind that seems to
be whipping up for Mr Brown as the next general election looms.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN TRAIL: Tory leader David Cameron supports candidate Chloe
Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Undecided in Norwich North

LENGTH: 963 words

ABSTRACT

Cath Elliott: Despite the money and media attention focused on the Norwich North
byelection, for the first time ever I'm a floating voter

FULL TEXT

Since  as my constituency MP in early June this year, I've been taking a keen
interest in the upcoming . It's not a byelection I ever wanted to see happen,
and like a lot of the constituents I'm still angry at the , but as it's
happening I need to decide who to vote for. As someone who has adopted as one of
their mantras "Women died to get you the vote!", refusing to vote, or boycotting
the election in protest at Gibson's treatment simply isn't an option for me.

In the past I haven't had much of a problem deciding who to vote for, because
despite my opposition to the Iraq war, and my concerns about the  that's been
taking place under the careful watch of New Labour, I've always known that
Gibson was on my side. I've been able to tell myself when putting that all
important cross next to the Labour candidate that it's not the odious Labour
government I've been voting for, but a hard-working constituency MP who shares
my political views on near enough every issue.

But now it's all change. Now, for the first time ever in an election, I'm a
floating voter. Even as I write this, with ballot boxes due to open tomorrow, I
still don't know for sure who I'm going to endorse. I have managed to whittle it
down to a choice between two candidates: the Green party's Rupert Read, and ,
the former British ambassador to Uzbekistan who was removed from his post after
complaining about human rights abuses there, and who's standing as an
independent under the banner "Put an honest man in parliament". It feels like
it's been a tortuously long process even getting this far, and I'm someone who
takes an interest in politics. I wouldn't be surprised if this election sees one
of the lowest turnouts ever, if my own experience of trying to let the
candidates persuade me with the strength of their arguments is anything to go
by.

In all there are  standing in Norwich North, but the serious race is between
just five of them. Like most people I ruled out some contenders right at the
start, as I did with the more rightwing and extreme parties such as UKIP and the
. So that left me with a choice between the Conservative candidate Chloe Smith,
the Green candidate Rupert Read, the Lib Dems' April Pond, Chris Ostrowski of
Labour, and the allegedly honest man Craig Murray.

I already  why I wouldn't be voting Conservative and that was before  became a
source of some controversy. But had I not already decided against the Tories,
the overkill of their campaign would have been enough to put me off. I've never
seen so many election leaflets from one political party in any election
campaign, but all that's managed to do is convince me that the Tories have way
too much money to spend. I'm not impressed with slick and expensive
electioneering, to me it's the candidate and the policies that matter, and
charming as she is Smith hasn't been impressive once the spinners and minders
have been taken away and she's been left on her own to debate the issues
alongside the other candidates.

It's the same with Chris Ostrowski, who didn't come across at all well in the
earlier this week. I understand now that some of that may have been down to him
having , but with so much anger still in the air over Gibson's forced departure,
and with the big guns like Gordon Brown staying well clear of Norwich, the
Labour campaign is at best unconvincing and at worst half-hearted. It's almost
as though they'd given up before they'd begun, which given Gibson's popularity
among the local voters is perfectly understandable but not likely to get them
anywhere near first place in this election.

April Pond has been impressive, but once again the Liberal Democrats have let
themselves down by running a dirty tricks campaign. The  where they attempted to
paint Rupert Read as some kind of terrorist sympathiser echoed some of the worst
excesses of the tabloid press, and when  on her initial opposition to academy
schools any chance of her getting my vote was well and truly lost.

Which brings me back to  and , the two candidates who were the first to respond
to the Twitter challenge I set them of laying out for me in 140 characters why I
should vote for them, and the two candidates who, despite not having anything
like the financial backing enjoyed by the Conservative candidate, have still
found ways of getting their messages across to the local electorate. Read has
been particularly impressive with his attempts to schmooze me over the last few
days, which I realise is probably a cynical attempt on his part to get me to
write nice things about him, and which as you can see has worked.

For an undecided voter, the build-up to tomorrow's byelection has been a
fascinating experience. It's been great to see so many candidates embracing new
media, extending their campaigns beyond leafleting and door knocking to Twitter,
and the . It's been interesting to observe the difference between a general
election campaign, where someone such as Cameron would probably only make one
appearance in the area, if that, and a byelection campaign, when the entire
party machinery is set in motion for a single candidate.

But however I do eventually decide to vote one thing's for sure, having kept
such a close eye on things over the past few weeks, whoever wins the seat had
better stick to their election promises - because I will be holding them to
account.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Dropping a name;
City Diary ; In the blue corner Nigel Farage

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 129 words


Nigel Farage, the ebullient leader of UKIP, is discussing with a colleague
booking a Mayfair gastropub. "If you mention the name Farage, it usually helps."
As the leader of a fast-growing political party? No, it seems they remember him
well and tend to laugh.

Before his political career, Farage was a successful commodities broker and used
the pub for client dinners. Two were especially memorable. After one, the bank
returned his cheque. Plenty of funds; but it was indecipherable.

At another, a client jumped out of the window. Appalled, his fellow diners
looked out at this apparent suicide. The client had worked out that there was a
small balcony outside, so he was in no danger. Very droll. He did, though, land
on the Victorian pub sign and break it.

Farage had to pay.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Voters back Tories on spending cuts;
Voters back the Tories over big cuts in spending

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13,31

LENGTH: 713 words


More voters trust the Conservatives than Labour on public spending, according to
a poll that severely undermines Gordon Brown's election plans.

The exclusive Populus poll for The Times shows that four in five voters believe
that significant cuts in public spending are inevitable after the next election,
regardless of who wins.

People have also become more pessimistic over the past few weeks about the
economic outlook.

The poll suggests that Labour is heading for certain defeat to the Tories in the
by-election in Norwich North on Thursday. Nationally, the Conservatives are on
38 per cent, up two points since June 9-10. Labour is on 26 per cent, up two
points. If these trends are repeated locally, the Tories should win easily.

Parliament starts its summer recess today. The poll, undertaken over the
weekend, shows that half the public expects an overall Conservative majority
after the next election, with only 15 per cent thinking that Labour can win a
fourth term.

The real blow to Labour is on public spending. Mr Brown is determined to fight
the election on a platform of Labour investment versus Tory cuts and on the
claim that if there has to be a spending squeeze Labour will be more
compassionate in its approach.

Public spending has dominated recent clashes with David Cameron, with the Prime
Minister seizing on the admission last month from Andrew Lansley, the Shadow
Health Secretary, that the Tories would have to cut spending by 10 per cent
after 2011 in all areas apart from the NHS, schools and international aid.

Since then the Tories have fastened on differences between ministers over
spending plans.

Last week Lord Mandelson sought to reshape Mr Brown's argument of "Labour
investment against Tory cuts" by admitting that there would be spending
constraints after the election, although Labour would protect frontline
services. He said last week that this debate on spending would be the fulcrum of
the campaign.

Today's poll raises serious questions over whether that campaign can work.

Only 28 per cent say that if there have to be cuts they would trust Labour most
to cut in ways that do not harm important public services and minimise the
negative impact on ordinary people. This compares with 38 per cent trusting the
Tories. A quarter said that they trusted neither party. The Tories do best among
women, professionals and managers.

Nearly two fifths of voters (38 per cent) favour a roughly equal split between
tax increases and cuts in  spending in order to reduce government borrowing and
debt. Just over a fifth back tax increases with fewer or no increases in public
spending. By contrast, a third put more emphasis on spending cuts with fewer or
no tax increases. These figures are virtually the same as in mid-April, when the
spring Budget was presented.

Optimism about the economy has declined sharply since the middle of June after a
clear upward trend earlier this year. The balance of voters thinking that the
economy will do well rather than badly has shifted from 32 per cent and 63 per
cent respectively last month to 25 per cent and 73 per cent now. It is still
better than the spring's 20 per cent and 78 per cent.

Women are much less optimistic than men. However, the fluctuations on the
general economic outlook contrast with much greater optimism about how people
see their own prospects, with 46 per cent hopeful and 52 per cent pessimistic .

Today's findings come amid further evidence of the perilious state of the public
finances. The Treasury's tax take fell by £32 billion in the past financial year
to £303 billion. Revenue from income tax, national insurance, VAT, stamp duty,
corporation tax and other levies fell by £21.7 billion as the economic downturn
took its toll.

The latest poll puts the Liberal Democrats one point up on the month at 20 per
cent, with other parties down 5 points at 16 per cent. These figures show the
unwinding of some of the support for smaller parties such as the UK Independence
Party in the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal and the European elections.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,504 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between July 17 and 19. The results have been weighted to be representative of
all adults. For more detailsvisit www.populus.co.uk.

73% were pessimistic about the economy

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Voters back Tories over big cuts in spending;
Huge majority take tough line on public finances Voters back the Tories over big
cuts in spending

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 730 words


More voters trust the Conservatives than Labour on public spending, according to
a poll that severely undermines Gordon Brown's election plans.

The exclusive Populus poll for The Times shows that four in five voters believe
that significant cuts in public spending are inevitable after the next election,
regardless of who wins.

People have also become more pessimistic over the past few weeks about the
economic outlook.

The poll suggests that Labour is heading for certain defeat to the Tories in the
by-election in Norwich North on Thursday. Nationally, the Conservatives are on
38 per cent, up two points since June 9-10. Labour is on 26 per cent, up two
points. If these trends are repeated locally, the Tories should win easily.

The findings come amid further evidence of the perilious state of the public
finances. The Treasury's tax take fell by £32 billion in the past finan-ciayear
to £303 billion. Revenue from income tax, national insurance, VAT, stamp duty,
corporation tax and other levies fell by £21.7 billion as the economic downturn
took its toll.

Parliament starts its summer recess today. The poll, undertaken over the
weekend, shows that half the public expects an overall Conservative majority
after the next election, with only 15 per cent thinking that Labour can win a
fourth term.

The real blow to Labour is on public spending. Mr Brown is determined to fight
the election on a platform of Labour investment versus Tory cuts and on the
claim that if there has to be a spending squeeze Labour will be more
compassionate in its approach.

Public spending has dominated recent clashes with David Cameron, with the Prime
Minister seizing on the admission last month from Andrew Lansley, the Shadow
Health Secretary, that the Tories would have to cut spending by 10 per cent
after 2011 in all areas apart from the NHS, schools and international aid.

Since then the Tories have fastened on differences between ministers over
spending plans.

Last week Lord Mandelson sought to reshape Mr Brown's argument of "Labour
investment against Tory cuts" by admitting that there would be spending
constraints after the election, although Labour would protect frontline
services. He said last week that this debate on spending would be the fulcrum of
the campaign.

Today's poll raises serious questions over whether that campaign can work. Only
28 per cent say that if there have to be cuts they would trust Labour most to
cut in ways that do not harm important public services and  minimise the
negative impact on ordinary people. This compares with 38 per cent trusting the
Tories. A quarter said that they trusted neither party. The Tories do best among
women, professionals and managers.

Nearly two fifths of voters (38 per cent) favour a roughly equal split between
tax increases and cuts in spending in order to reduce government borrowing and
debt. Just over a fifth back tax increases with fewer or no increases in public
spending. By contrast, a third put more emphasis on spending cuts with fewer or
no tax increases. These figures are virtually the same as in mid-April, when the
spring Budget was presented.

Optimism about the economy has declined sharply since the middle of June. The
balance of voters thinking that the economy will do well rather than badly has
shifted from 32 per cent and 63 per cent respectively last month to 25 per cent
and 73 per cent now. Women are much less optimistic than me n. However, people
were more positive about their own pros-pectswith 46 per cent hopeful and 52 per
cent pessimistic .

The Liberal Democrats are one point up at 20 per cent, with other parties down 5
points at 16 per cent. Support has been falling for smaller parties such as the
UK Independence Party following the MPs' expenses scandal and the European
elections. 6Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,504 adults aged over 18 by
telephone between July 17 and 19. The results have been weighted to be
representative of all adults. For more details visit www.populus.co.uk.

6 David Cameron suggested that several grandees could serve in a future
Conservative government. "It's often said that I wanted to get rid of old MPs,"
he told The Daily Telegraph. "That is not true." He said that he valued the
advice of politicians such as Stephen Dorrell, Sir George Young, James
Arbuthnot, Peter Lilley and John Gummer.

Government buries a mountain of bad news Report, page 11

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 20, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French delay closure of Jungle camp

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 234  words


FRENCH authorities are refusing to clear an illegal immigrant camp in Calais
which provides a springboard for Britain - because it must be closed "with
dignity".

Critics said hundreds of asylum seekers will enter Britain this year to milk the
system because of France's failure.

Despite pledges to make the Channel ports "watertight, " officials in Paris
admit the notorious shanty known as The Jungle will not be closed until next
year.

A London journalist was raped in the litter-strewn camp last year. French
immigration minister Eric Besson says: "To remove the camp is easy, but to
remove it with dignity is much more complicated."

Every night hundreds from Asia, Africa and the Middle East try to break into
lorries and trains heading to Britain. An estimated 200 migrants make it across
the Channel every month.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:

"The French will always act in their own interest and continue to pass the
problem of illegal immigrants over to us. This is why we must have our own
policy on immigration and asylum to protect our borders."

Last night however the Home Office claimed Britain was protected by a "ring of
steel".

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We have one of the strongest borders in the
world and we recently agreed with our French counterparts to make it even more
secure.

"Last year we stopped 28,000 individual attempts to cross the Channel and
searched one million lorries."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tent in the migrants' Jungle camp

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 20, 2009 Monday

Sport: Lies, damn lies

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 107 words


Made-up statistics that should be true

95

Percentage of known terms of abuse in the Anglo-Australian demotic, from 'dirty
dobber' and 'drongo' up, uttered under Ricky Ponting's breath during the morning
session at Lord's yesterday

4,000

Shots so far of Sirs Trevor McDonald and David Frost somehow in the best seats
at the summer's biggest events

400

Viagra marketing executives resolving to stop chasing Nelson Mandela and to get
on to Tom Watson's people instead

76

Percentage of cars at Turnberry seen sporting Ukip 'Keep the Pound' stickers

3

Days until the newly crowned WBA world champion Amir Khan starts referring to
himself in the third person

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 20, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

By-election hopefuls mask their Westminster links;
Tories confident but voters are underwhelmed

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 732 words


It seems likely that Chloe Smith will, at the tender age of 27, become the new
MP for Norwich North this Thursday. If she does, David Cameron - who has thrown
everything at winning, including a record number of visits - will declare a
famous victory.

But the by-election - the first parliamentary contest after the MPs' expenses
scandal - shows how candidates are being forced to camouflage their Westminster
credentials.

Ms Smith prepared to canvass in Thorpe Marriott, a well-heeled estate on the
edge of the city. "I expect people will want to talk about the northern
distributor road," she said. Ms Smith is campaigning as a Norfolk woman on
determinedly local issues.

She describes herself as a "business consultant" but is vague about what she
does for Deloitte. Perhaps this is because she is on secondment to the
Conservatives' implementation unit. Ms Smith, who is registered as an assistant
to James Clappison, a Shadow Work and Pensions Minister, is drawing up plans on
how the party would govern once in power.

The reason for her reticence is not hard to divine. On the doorstep Lisa Dixon,
a mother of two, voiced a familiar sentiment. "The trouble is the trust has
gone. When it goes you can't get it back, can you? I feel guilty. My great-aunt
was a suffragette, but I don't think I am going to vote for any of you. Go on,
do your job - why should I vote Tory?" she demanded of an activist from Boston,
Lincolnshire, called Andrea. The activist started talking about immigration
policy.

Norman Lamb, the North Norfolk Liberal Democrat MP running the party's campaign,
sensed a potential voter. He went through his patter - Labour can't win; the
Tories are favourites and only the Liberal Democrats can provide a challenge;
the candidate, April Pond, is an established Norwich figure (she runs a
jewellery shop) and not a professional politician.

Mr Lamb said that Ms Pond has momentum. Unfortunately for her she also has a
moat. The expenses saga has evolved a new weaponry of political abuse. But a
more serious difficulty is posed by the Greens and UKIP.

Labour's campaign chiefs contend that the party's vote is holding up but, when
challenged, privately admit that the "Gibbo" factor has made it
virtual-limpossible for it to win. The morose shade of Ian Gibson, the maverick
left-wing Labour MP who triggered the by-election after being deselected
following controversy over his second-home allowance, haunts the whole contest.

Mr Gibson had his candidacy rescinded after revelations that he claimed almost
£80,000 in second home expenses on a London flat that he later sold at a reduced
price to his daughter. He announced his decision to quit as an MP immediately
rather than wait for the general election.

The Conservatives hope that the Gibson factor will depress Labour's vote,
concentrated around a number of estates in the city, and that simply turning out
their own supporters in the constituency's wealthier suburbs will be enough to
deliver victory.

The strategy may be simple enough but implementing it is anything but. All Tory
MPs have been told to visit at least three times and have to register with the
Opposition Chief Whip.

Senior Tories acknowledge the danger of overkill, while others complain about a
lack of impetus in a campaign that is formally directed by Theresa May but
overseen by both Eric Pickles and Gillian Shepherd.

A Shadow cabinet minister fretted at the contrast with other by-elections.
"There was a real buzz about Crewe - that's not how Norwich feels."

Its voters, who had this by-election forced on them, are managing to contain
their enthusiasm.

Signs of change 6 In 2005 Norwich North returned Ian Gibson, the Labour MP since
1997, with 45 per cent of the vote, ahead of a Conservative challenger on 33 per
cent 6 The constituency straddles two councils - four wards fall under Norwich
City Council, six under Broadland District Council 6 All six Broadland wards
remained or turned Conservative in the local elections with significant margins
of victory 6 The amalgamated local results for the wards wholly or partly in
Norwich North constituency make for a dramatic Conservative victory with over 40
per cent of the vote 6 Labour polled 18 per cent across the ten wards, Lib Dems
17 per cent, Greens 16 and UKIP - who contested 4 wards - 8 per cent

Online

Norwich by-election

Read the Red Box on Westminster, politics and spin timesonline.co.uk/redbox

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron and his candidate, Chloe Smith, on the stump in Norwich
PAUL ROGERS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 July 19, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Feel that - it's the voter rumble building up;
THE FIRST BY-ELECTION SINCE THE EXPENSES SCANDAL THREATENS SEISMIC CHANGE

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1330 words


THERE could be a revolution in Norwich, a casting-off of the old order - a
"political earthquake", as Peter Tatchell, the gay rights campaigner, puts it,
addressing his audience in a frowsy community hall tucked away in one of the
city's neat and colourless 1920s suburbs, building to a climax.

A vote for the Green party would put Norwich on the map, this recent
environmental convert enthuses.

It is a close, clammy, breezeless night; the heavy blue drapes around the opened
windows lie unperturbed. There are 26 of us, including me and Chris, the
photographer, and at least five Green party organisers. It feels vaguely
reminiscent of far-left meetings in the mid-1970s, a few devout souls, two
certifiable maniacs, a nice old lady who has wandered in by mistake because she
thought that it was something to do with gardening. A politi-cal earthquake? You
put your ear to the ground and there is not much of a rumbling to be heard. And
yet ...

The Norwich North by-election this week, the first West-minsteparliamentary
contest since the MPs' expenses scandal, is perceived (by the pun-dits, by the
bookies, by most of the candidates) to be a four-way fight between Labour, the
incumbents, the Tories, the Liberal Democrats and the Green party, with the
Tories established as fairly clear favourites.

This in itself is a small earthquake - that the Greens should be in with even
the slightest chance of winning is remarkable: in 2005 they notched up nearly 3%
here. But they did well during the Euro elections, have a raft of respected
councillors in city hall and, in Rupert Read, a candidate the main parties would
kill for: youthful, good-looking, self-deprecating and charismatic - a lecturer
in philosophy at the University of East Anglia.

He has an easy manner that goes down well with the electorate. The Greens have
that other important thing on their side: circumstance. Many of the voters here
are still sick to death of all that expenses business, the moats and the
flipping, and still of a mind for revenge on the three Westminster parties. And
then there is the baleful clanking of chains in the middle distance, another
factor to complicate proceedings ... Banquo's Ghost.

"Ian has said privately that he supports me. He told Ben Bradshaw [the culture
secretary]," says the Labour candidate, Chris Ostrowski, who has been
desperately trying, these past few weeks, to be Banquo's Ghost's Best Mate.

"Ian" is the former MP, Dr Ian Gibson, rightly revered as a first-rate
constituency politician and an independently minded voice of conscience on the
diminished Labour left.

He was kicked out by a committee appointed by Gordon Brown for having sold a
flat - upon which he had claimed parliamentary expenses - to his daughter at a
reduced price. It is not lost upon the electorate here that his supposed crimes
are far less than those committed by some existing members of the cabinet; that
he was penalised primarily for his oppositionism.

It was touch and go as to whether he would stand as an independent, having
resigned his seat in disgust; in the end, he decided not to. But a public
endorsement of the beleaguered Ostrowski has not been forthcoming.

Ostrowski is in the hideous position of having to pay obeisance to the
brilliance of Gibson while not dissing his leader too much for having
defenestrated him. It is an excruciating and, you have to say, untenable
position. "I wish that this by-election had not happened," Ostrowski told me
last week - and you suspect that he might well be telling the truth.

In any other circumstances, he would be a fine candidate: derided as a Labour
apparatchik by his opponents and, worse, a Londoner, he may indeed be both of
these things, but he has a laconic wit and a certain chutzpah.

Still in his twenties, he is whippet-thin and affable, constantly chaperoned by
his ubiquitously Scottish Labour minder, Kenny Young. Ostrowski is a product
manager and, reputedly, a fairly large percentage of his clientele can be found
among those whom he wishes to make colleagues in the House of Commons: he works
for John Lewis. Keep those sofas comin', boy.

I tried to help out Ostrowski by getting him a personal endorsement from Gibson,
but I failed: no calls were returned, and I rang him about 14 times, leaving
messages expressing unreserved adoration. I even left him a final text message
saying: "Do u think pple should vote Labour nex week, doc?" But no reply was
forthcoming, not even a "lol".

In the only poll to be conducted in the constituency, a few weeks back, Labour
was running in second place behind the Tories. It will be a minor miracle if
Ostrowski remains there - although Norwich North could do far worse than put
this carpetbagger in the Commons.

Last Thursday morning, in the starved gloom of a Victorian chapel, I bump into
Theresa May, the shadow work and pensions secretary, who is up to support the
frontrunner, Chloe Smith, a management consultant. Most of the top Tories are
dropping in - George Osborne last Wednesday, David Cameron very soon: this seat
is theirs to win. Some charismatic Labour people have clambered onto the train
at Liverpool Street, too, mind. Vernon Coaker, for example. But no Brown, no
Mandelson, no Miliband. Too busy, you know how it is; hell, things happening
every day.

Smith is slightly robotic, in the manner of someone who knows that the election
is hers to lose and is thus determined not to put a foot wrong. She does not
flinch when I ask her a stupid question about whether people throw rotten fruit
at her for being both a management consultant and a Tory, two wholly unnecessary
evils in our world; there is a blink of eyelids (that's how they breathe -
remember Men in Black?) and a fluent exposition of Conservative party policy.

May claims that voters think the Tories have dealt with the expenses issue
better than Labour; they're hearing this on the doorstep every day. Smith has
about her the air of someone who knows they are going to win, right down to
refusing to take part in a hustings on local TV with the other candidates. Prior
engagements, she says.

Beyond this bunch there are the usual convocation of monomaniacs, racists and
mirthless lunatics crowded together on the ballot paper. And, as a curiosity,
Craig Murray, the former UK ambassador to Uzbekistan, who feels himself to be
cloaked in Martin Bell's shining white armour and wishes to clean up the
political system.

But back to Tatchell for a moment. I wonder if this byelection will have the
same dramatic effect as the one in which he stood, and that he lost, as a Labour
candidate in Bermondsey, south London, 26 years ago? It could do, if the Greens
win. In a sense, Bermondsey was more tumultuous than Margaret Thatcher's general
election victory that preceded it. If Labour loses Bermondsey, you thought at
the time, it can lose anything and everything - and then the 1983 general
election came along to prove the point.

But Tatchell lost after a homophobic campaign against him by the Liberal party
and Simon Hughes was elected. Oh, the irony - it took Hughes a quarter of a
century to apologise to Tatchell for the vile campaign and, at the same time, to
admit that he was bisexual.

What a strange and rather wonderful symmetry if, after this admission,
Tatchell's new party won in Norwich, with equally tumultuous effect.

Open fight

At the last general election, Ian Gibson, the MP since 1997, secured Norwich
North for Labour with a majority of 5,459.

Gibson attracted 21,097 votes, giving Labour almost a 45% share of the poll.

The Conservative candidate, James Tumbridge, came second with 33% of the vote.

The Liberal Democrats trailed in third place with 16%, followed by the Greens
(2.7%) and the UK Independence party (2.4%).

Thursday's by-election is being billed as a four-way fight, with the Lib Dems
and the Green party, which has a strong candidate in Rupert Read, expecting firm
support. The Greens have 13 councillors in Norwich and took 25% of the city's
vote in June's European elections.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Read: charismatic
Chloe Smith, the Tory candidate, is the favourite in the Norwich North
by-election
CHRIS BOURCHIER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday

Thrillers

BYLINE: Jeremy Jehu

SECTION: BOOKS; GENRE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 703  words


The Budapest Protocol

by Adam Lebor

327pp, Reportage,  pounds 11.99

T  pounds 10.99 (plus  pounds 1.25 p&p) 0844 871 1515

The Increment

by David Ignatius

393pp, Quercus,  pounds 17.99

T  pounds 15.99 (plus  pounds 1.25 p&p) 0844 871 1515

City of Thieves:

the Controversial City Thriller

by Cyrus Moore

405pp, Sphere,  pounds 12.99

T  pounds 11.99 (plus  pounds 1.25 p&p) 0844 871 1515

Assassin

by Tom Cain

364pp, Bantam,  pounds 12.99

T  pounds 11.99 (plus  pounds 1.25 p&p) 0844 871 1515

So that's UKIP's Novel of the Year, if not the decade, sewn up, then. On the eve
of the first EU presidential election, and in a Hungary lurching towards
fascism, Alex, a journalist, finds his grandfather murdered and himself an
overnight enemy of the state.

Grandpa has left a secret legacy - proof (and this spoils nothing, it's in the
blurb) that the EU has always been part of an evil Nazi plot, funded by looted
wartime billions, to reconquer Europe by economic, not military, blitzkrieg.

A curtain-raising murder? A flawed, hunted hero chasing a world-wobbling secret
while falling for his beautiful sidekick? Baddies lifted right off the "gloating
supervillain'' shelf? Yes. Adam Lebor, a foreign correspondent, has cheerfully
hijacked the eternal blueprint for countless thrillers from the sublime Robert
Harris to the ridiculous Dan Brown. But he has deployed the format with
delicacy, reverence, expertise and (the acid test for even the darkest plots)
charm.

T RATING þþþþþ

When Harry Pappas of the CIA is given proof of an Iranian nuclear bomb
programme, he has to seek British help to stop the hawks on his own side from
barrelling into a catastrophic war.

Harry realises the programme is no immediate threat - largely because MI6 is
already discreetly sabotaging it. But the reason he has to commit treason by
enlisting the Brits to prove his point is - and this is the book's unexpectedly
topical theme - that MI6's capabilities in the region are vastly superior to
those of the CIA.

As a journalist, David Ignatius has covered the CIA for 25 years. He is the
thriller writer CIA officers most admire for his authenticity. Presumably they
talk to him. So the rueful "Brits do better'' admission underpinning this
typically compelling tragedy of Faustian pacts, complex betrayals and botched
compromises is doubly intriguing given that Iran was ridiculed for suggesting
much the same recently.

T RATING þþþþþ

Investment bank analysts sell share tips to clients - but if they abuse their
positions to boost clients' own shares, the FSA will descend on them like a ton
of blancmange.

When brilliant Nic Lamparelli becomes a US bank's star analyst, he slowly
discovers that he is the target of a billion-dollar conspiracy to blackmail him
into rigging the markets. The barely imaginable consequence of refusing to
co-operate is that he'll... er... lose his job.

Though you wish it otherwise, that's about all there is to the plot of this
supposedly whistle-blowing "thriller'' by a real-life analyst. It's set before
the banking crisis and so it feels outdated. It's exceedingly leisurely. The
villains' identities are never in doubt and their evil plan is insanely flabby.
The sheer perversity of Nic's insistence on staying honest might itself be a
potent indictment of the City's mindless, reflexive greed, but thrilling it
isn't.

T RATING þþþþþ

Tom Cain (aka the journalist David Thomas) made his name with his daring action
debut, The Accident Man, about the moralising hitman Sam Carver who is duped
into killing Diana and Dodi. But the sequel revealed the trap that Cain had set
himself - that Carver was stuck in a pre-9/11 era of little happening.

Depending on how charitable you feel, his solution in this third Carver romp is
an act of either outrageous chutzpah or unmitigated cheek. Suddenly Carver is in
the here-and-now, struggling to save the life of America's first black president
after spending, apparently, some years as a security consultant. Some years?
That's 12 actually, yet his physical prowess has waned not a jot when he should
be looking forward to buying his bullets on a senior citizen discount. Cain
still rattles out a punchy yarn, but fans might well feel taken for a ride -
albeit an exciting one.

T RATING þþþþþ

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday

Feature - CPB extends a hand to the wider left;
John Haylett on how Britain's communists are looking to build up maximum
progressive unity

BYLINE: John Haylett

LENGTH: 839 words


The Communist Party of Britain (CPB) announced earlier this week that it is
ready to discuss the possibility of joining other left-wing and labour movement
organisations in a united front to build the maximum possible unity to defend
working people.

The CPB hammered out its approach at its bimonthly executive committee meeting
in Croydon last weekend, basing itself on the decisions of last year's biennial
national congress.

The executive agreed to build upon the "positive experiences" of the No2 EU
initiative, when the CPB, the RMT union, the Socialist Party, the Indian Workers
Association and other left-wing groups intervened in the June 4 EU parliamentary
election.

No2 EU put forward a full candidate list in every polling region, qualifying for
election broadcasts on TV and radio, in English and Welsh. It exposed the big
business-backed, continent-wide drive for privatisation and took on the racism
and xenophobia of the British National Party.

Despite the extremely late entry by No2 EU into the lists and the systematic
mass media blanking of its message, it scored a creditable 153,000 votes -
around 1 per cent.

And for all the efforts of some on the left to blame its involvement for the
election of fascist leader Nick Griffin in north-west England, the fact is that
it was the collapse of Labour's vote by 200,000 in that region that enabled the
BNP fuhrer to swan off to Strasbourg.

There is also no way of knowing the extent to which the uncompromising No2 EU
anti-fascist propaganda may have persuaded voters previously planning to abstain
to cast their ballots for No2 EU or, for that matter, Labour, the Green Party or
UKIP.

Mass abstention by working-class, erstwhile Labour voters continues to be a
massive problem, which can be exploited by the racist far-right.

Yet there are many within the labour movement who believe that these
disillusioned refugees from Labour will return home at the general election on
being told that the Tories will be worse than new Labour or being persuaded that
Brown and co might ditch neoliberalism and return to traditional social
democratic policies.

One recent correspondent to the Morning Star letters page suggested that
"working for a Labour victory alongside ordinary Labour Party members, using
slogans such as Make the bankers pay," could revitalise the movement.

Well, why not add "Soak the rich" and "Bring the troops home?" They too are
valid slogans and they are equally doomed to being rejected by the Labour
leadership.

The labour movement faces a dilemma of either issuing a blanket call for a
Labour vote - to be met by another wave of abstentionism or, worse still,
protest votes cast for the BNP - or of making the political case to back
anti-war, pro-worker Labour MPs together with representatives from other
formations.

In some areas, these may be Green, Respect or left Plaid Cymru or they may be
communist or socialist candidates endorsed by a united front, forming the basis
of a coherent counterpoint to new Labour's destructive policies.

The CPB plans to proceed swiftly to the selection of at least 10 candidates
standing in the names of the Communist Party and Unity For Peace and Socialism
and to seek support for them from other sections of the left and labour
movement.

Nothing has been settled over any united front. Nothing is set in stone. The
party is open to discussions and will make further decisions arising from those
talks. In fact, the main priority in the coming months will be to move out of
committee rooms and onto the streets to engage with people.

The CPB leadership identified a number of key campaigning issues for the party
in the autumn and future months.

These include action to win backing for the People's Charter for Change and the
Charter for Women, supporting Stop the War Coalition and other peace movement
initiatives for immediate withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, raising the
issues of monopoly profit, public ownership and the Left-Wing Programme to win
new party members and mobilising in the trade unions and local communities to
build more effective and united anti-fascist work.

The left and the trade unions are engaged in constant battles at all levels to
oppose new Labour's attempts to make working people pay for the bail-out of the
banks and big business.

What sense does it make to criticise new Labour's neglect of manufacturing, a
Civil Service jobs cull, ongoing privatisation, failure to build council houses,
imperialist wars, scapegoating of refugees and attacks on democratic rights and
then say: "But, despite that, we urge a vote for every last single
sticky-fingered, warmongering, privatising one of them?"

The greater the active resistance to new Labour neoliberalism and the more
likely a challenge to the most abject apologists of this anti-people agenda, the
stronger hand that progressive forces in Labour, including the unions, will hold
in demanding a change of political direction.

- The full text of the CPB July EC resolution can be accessed on the CPB website
(www.communist-party.org.uk).

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Comment and debate: Diary: Don't interrupt the bobby on the beat. They're busy.
They have a lot on their minds

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 667 words


Spare a kind thought for the rank-and-file police officer. It can be a
fulfilling job but, boy, it's challenging. Especially right now. They are loth
to complain, but if one considers the lot of PC Plod in London, they are being
told that they must lead the fight against terrorism, by spotting irregularities
and reaping the on-the-ground intelligence. As neighbourhood patrollers, they
are also the first line of attack in the fight against antisocial crime:
collaring miscreants, meeting, greeting, escorting, reassuring the local
populace. And, as of this week, PCs have been told they must now also be the key
weapon in the battle against organised crime. You know who the gangsters are,
the bosses have told them. Keep your eye on them. Tell us what they're up to.
Nick 'em when you get the chance. And in general that's fine, but where's the
incentive? For their bosses, by contrast, have plenty of incentives: perks worth
hundreds of thousands of pounds on top of their declared salaries; sweeteners,
honoraria, school fees taken care of. Best not to think about it, our man in the
pointy hat tells us. Wouldn't be time to think about anything else.

Fear grips Labour's heartlands as swaths of councillors find themselves facing
examination - in many cases de-selection. The shock of the party's showing in
recent elections has worn off. The reckoning has begun. Already a scythe has cut
through Barking and Dagenham council, where officials believe that time-servers
contributed to the rise there of the racist British National party. Sitting
councillors are being rubber-hosed in Waltham Forest and Newham. Many have
already lodged appeals. Rough justice is also on its way to Tower Hamlets, where
too many appear to concentrate on sectional politics when they should be
organising bin collections and the like. Some of the re-interviews are being
conducted by local parties themselves, but others involve officials from the
region. "When you ask a councillor what he has done and what the council does
and he can't tell you, you have a problem," says a rubber-hoser. So is it the
great terror or a necessary corrective? Could be both.

The milk of human kindness curdles on impact with the letters page of the
Financial Times of yesterday. Months to go until the panto season but already,
in correspondent Trevor Pateman of Brighton, we have the perfect villain. Ready,
steady, boooo. Time to look at the "array of 'concessions' that kick in at 60,"
he says. "Free bus passes, prescriptions, swimming, the winter fuel payment and,
of course, old age pensions for women. The private sector is also hot for
concessions at 60: cinema tickets, haircuts, train tickets. The list is very
long. Both government and the private sector have conspired to give benefits
scrounging a good name provided it is done by those over 60. Time to put an end
to this saga," says Trevor. Don't laugh. He'll be a minister before long.

And so, at last, the day arrived; lunch with the Ukip MEP, Godfrey "eight pints"
Bloom. And immediately the first disappointment. No pints on this occasion. Just
gin and tonic, and claret. Pints on another, less pressured, day, he promised.
We will hold him to his word. But the occasion was not wasted, for we did have
the opportunity to quiz him about reports of his appalling behaviour the
previous evening in Brussels when he led the heckling of Europe minister Glenys
Kinnock. Marvellous to have more women in the European parliament, she said.
More people to make the tea, said Godders. Unacceptable, we told him, as did
Labour members reacting to the comment at the event itself, but there was little
sign of contrition. One feels the ire of liberal folk is all that's keeping him
alive.

Finally, with all the excitements surrounding the News of the World this week,
isn't this just the perfect, perfect weekend for Sarah Brown (pictured) to be
guest-editing Fabulous, the tabloid's glossy magazine? An accident of timing.
Sometimes things just turn out well.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Reply: Letters and emails: Shock and awe over President Blair

BYLINE: Roy Stilling

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 24 words


Has the Labour party been infiltrated by Ukip? I can't think of anything more
likely to result in Britain leaving the EU.

Roy Stilling

Gillingham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Comment and debate: Diary: Don't interrupt the bobby on the beat. They're busy.
They have a lot on their minds

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 667 words


Spare a kind thought for the rank-and-file police officer. It can be a
fulfilling job but, boy, it's challenging. Especially right now. They are loth
to complain, but if one considers the lot of PC Plod in London, they are being
told that they must lead the fight against terrorism, by spotting irregularities
and reaping the on-the-ground intelligence. As neighbourhood patrollers, they
are also the first line of attack in the fight against antisocial crime:
collaring miscreants, meeting, greeting, escorting, reassuring the local
populace. And, as of this week, PCs have been told they must now also be the key
weapon in the battle against organised crime. You know who the gangsters are,
the bosses have told them. Keep your eye on them. Tell us what they're up to.
Nick 'em when you get the chance. And in general that's fine, but where's the
incentive? For their bosses, by contrast, have plenty of incentives: perks worth
hundreds of thousands of pounds on top of their declared salaries; sweeteners,
honoraria, school fees taken care of. Best not to think about it, our man in the
pointy hat tells us. Wouldn't be time to think about anything else.

Fear grips Labour's heartlands as swaths of councillors find themselves facing
examination - in many cases de-selection. The shock of the party's showing in
recent elections has worn off. The reckoning has begun. Already a scythe has cut
through Barking and Dagenham council, where officials believe that time-servers
contributed to the rise there of the racist British National party. Sitting
councillors are being rubber-hosed in Waltham Forest and Newham. Many have
already lodged appeals. Rough justice is also on its way to Tower Hamlets, where
too many appear to concentrate on sectional politics when they should be
organising bin collections and the like. Some of the re-interviews are being
conducted by local parties themselves, but others involve officials from the
region. "When you ask a councillor what he has done and what the council does
and he can't tell you, you have a problem," says a rubber-hoser. So is it the
great terror or a necessary corrective? Could be both.

The milk of human kindness curdles on impact with the letters page of the
Financial Times of yesterday. Months to go until the panto season but already,
in correspondent Trevor Pateman of Brighton, we have the perfect villain. Ready,
steady, boooo. Time to look at the "array of 'concessions' that kick in at 60,"
he says. "Free bus passes, prescriptions, swimming, the winter fuel payment and,
of course, old age pensions for women. The private sector is also hot for
concessions at 60: cinema tickets, haircuts, train tickets. The list is very
long. Both government and the private sector have conspired to give benefits
scrounging a good name provided it is done by those over 60. Time to put an end
to this saga," says Trevor. Don't laugh. He'll be a minister before long.

And so, at last, the day arrived; lunch with the Ukip MEP, Godfrey "eight pints"
Bloom. And immediately the first disappointment. No pints on this occasion. Just
gin and tonic, and claret. Pints on another, less pressured, day, he promised.
We will hold him to his word. But the occasion was not wasted, for we did have
the opportunity to quiz him about reports of his appalling behaviour the
previous evening in Brussels when he led the heckling of Europe minister Glenys
Kinnock. Marvellous to have more women in the European parliament, she said.
More people to make the tea, said Godders. Unacceptable, we told him, as did
Labour members reacting to the comment at the event itself, but there was little
sign of contrition. One feels the ire of liberal folk is all that's keeping him
alive.

Finally, with all the excitements surrounding the News of the World this week,
isn't this just the perfect, perfect weekend for Sarah Brown (pictured) to be
guest-editing Fabulous, the tabloid's glossy magazine? An accident of timing.
Sometimes things just turn out well.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Reply: Letters and emails: Shock and awe over President Blair

BYLINE: Roy Stilling

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 24 words


Has the Labour party been infiltrated by Ukip? I can't think of anything more
likely to result in Britain leaving the EU.

Roy Stilling

Gillingham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 17, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Thanksgiving service

BYLINE: Tim Brinton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 266 words


A service of thanksgiving for the life of Tim Brinton was held on Wednesday,
July 15, at St Bride's Church, Fleet Street.

Canon David Meara, rector, officiated and said the bidding prayer.

Mr Adam Holloway, MP, and Mr Jimmie Ferard read the lessons. Mr Michael Howard,
QC, MP, Mr Jonathan Balcon and Mr Jeffery Dench gave the addresses.

Among others present were: Mrs Brinton (widow), Mr Howard Brinton (son), Mr Tim
Whittaker and Ms Sal Brinton (son-in-law and daughter), Mrs Fran
Brinton-Martinez, Mrs Tracy Twell, Mrs Caroline Brinton-Ballester, Miss
Madeleine Brinton (daughters), Mr Chris Whittaker, Mr Joe Whittaker, Miss Jess
Brinton, Miss Rosi Martinez-Brinton, Mr Alex Ballester-Brinton (grandchildren),
Miss Veronica Brinton, Miss Meg Brinton, Mr and Mrs Charles Giles, Mr and Mrs
Ian McNeil, Mrs Catriona Bourdillon, Mrs Margaret Whittaker, Mr and Mrs Ian Powe
with other members of the family.

Sir David Nicholas, Miss Diana Edwards-Jones (ITN), Sir Anthony and Lady
Garrett, Sir Nicholas Winterton, MP, Mr and Mrs Peter Sissons, Mr Keith
McDowall, Mr Peter Bottomley, MP, Mr Roger Ordish, Miss Adrienne Reynolds, Mr
David Walter, Mr and Mrs Jacques Arnold, Mr and Mrs Armstrong-Wright, Mr George
Nissen, Mrs Brenda Arnold, Mrs Joanne Reader, Miss Amanda Oates, Mr and Mrs
Brian Lewis, Mr David Wharton, Mrs Nan Higgs, Miss Kay Cadell, Miss Sarah
McCombie, Mr Alan Macdonald, Mr and Mrs Bill Sheldrake, Mr Michael Green, Mrs
Anne Smith, Mr Paul Stevens, Mr Simon Dixon, Mr T. Harris (UKIP) with
representatives of Gravesham Conservative Party with many more friends and
former colleagues.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday

Norwich ponders a Green future as byelection looms: Ian Gibson's seat is first
test for nervous political parties after the expenses scandal

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 504 words


On the doorsteps of Norwich, voters are sick to death of government sleaze. So
every prospective MP tiptoeing towards them, from the Conservatives to the
Greens, claims to represent a clean break from corrupt Westminster.

But in the Norwich North byelection next week, the first test for nervous
political parties after the expenses scandal, the only person who seems certain
to win -had he stood - is their Labour MP, Ian Gibson, who resigned after his
party deselected him over his expenses.

"Dr Ian Gibson was just about the best MP in the country," said one voter.

Gibson, a respected backbencher, was bitterly disappointed when Labour's
expenses disciplinary committee barred him from standing at the next election
for selling the London flat he part-funded from his second home allowance to his
daughter at below-market rates.

But Gibson will not stand as an independent against his party. Instead, the race
for Norwich North is the clearest demonstration yet of a new era multi-party
politics.

The Conservatives are favourites to recapture a seat they lost in 1997 but the
election is a four-way fight and could be a political watershed for the Green
party, which has built up a uniquely strong base in Norwich.

The Greens have 13 city councillors and seven Norfolk county council seats, five
of which they won - from Labour and the Liberal Democrats - in Norwich in June.
They took a 25% share of the Norwich vote in the European election and, with so
many parties standing, including the maverick Norfolk-born independent Craig
Murray, 25% could be enough to win Norwich North.

"We've never had a strong local base or councillors when fighting a byelection
before," said the Green candidate, Rupert Read, a city councillor and philosophy
lecturer. "Now the public and the media have got reasons to take us seriously,
who knows what will happen?"

The Greens may be helped by the well-funded Ukip, who will take votes from the
Tories and are putting billboards up across the city promising a "clean start".
But the Greens may end up doing the Conservatives a favour, according to Norman
Lamb, Lib Dem MP for North Norfolk. "The risk is that they let the Tories in by
dividing non-Tory voters," he said, arguing that the Lib Dem candidate, April
Pond, was a free-thinking politician in the mould of Gibson. "We've got a local
businesswoman who is Norfolk to the core. She is a natural successor to Ian," he
said.

Labour hopes that by choosing Chris Ostrowski - a 28-year-old John Lewis
employee with ties to Norwich from his university days - it can shrug off the
controversy over the treatment of Gibson, who had a 5,459 majority, and hold the
seat.

Three centre-left parties competing for votes and little enthusiasm for the BNP
has left the Tory byelection frontrunner, Chloe Smith, 27, a Norfolk-born
business consultant who has been campaigning in the constituency for 18 months,
needing a 5.9% swing. Even she paid tribute to the "strength" of Gibson -
disgraced in Labour's eyes but currently the most popular man in Norwich.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BBC 'BIAS' LICENCE FEE REBEL QUIDS IN

BYLINE: JOHN COLES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 243 words


A PROTESTER who refused to pay the "biased" BBC his licence fee for seven years
was fined yesterday - but was still quids in.

John Kelly, 70, was told to pay £315 - but saved more than £600 as a TV licence
for the period would have cost £997.

The retired engineer claimed the Beeb's news coverage was too Left-wing - and
too much in favour of the European Union. He was among 2,000 people who began
refusing to pay the £142.50-a-year fee in 2002. Defiant Mr Kelly was the first
of the group to be taken to court - and was supported by banner-waving
campaigners outside.

He accused the BBC of a "crackdown" on critics after public fury over top execs'
expenses and prank phone calls by Jonathan Ross and Russell Brand to actor
Andrew Sachs.

Mr Kelly told magistrates in Exeter, Devon, that the BBC was break-inits Royal
Charter which required a balance of opinions.

But JP chairman David Young told him: "We are here to determine whether or not
you paid your licence fee."

Mr Kelly was fined £240 and told to pay £60 costs and a £15 victim surcharge.

The UK Independence Party member said outside court: "The BBC is inherently
Left-wing, which is wrong.

"They should have no political persuasion - they should be squeaky clean.

"I get a choice which newspaper I buy, but not what channels I have to pay for.
It's a form of institutionalised bullying."

He refused to say if he would now buy a licence. Not having one can mean a fine
of up to £1,000.

j.coles@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Saved cash . . Mr Kelly yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

BNP pair can't find enough friends for a Strasbourg party

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 438 words


As the strains of Beethoven's Ode to Joy faded, the British National Party
arrived on the international stage yesterday when its two MEPs took their seats
in the European Parliament.

The new members, Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons, avoided the European anthem and
were allocated places 780 and 781, towards the back of the Strasbourg chamber
with kindred MEPs from the neo-fascist parties of Belgium, Bulgaria, France and
Hungary.

They were immediately shunned by their fellow non-aligned MEP, Diane Dodds, the
Democratic Unionist, who refused to take up seat 782 next to Mr Brons. It
remained empty throughout the opening session of the ninth directly elected
European Parliament.

The BNP has failed to find enough like-minded MEPs to form an official group,
which would have brought extra funding and staff, but will work informally with
neo-fascist parties including Jean-Marie Le Pen's Front National in France,
Attack from Bulgaria, Flemish Interest from Belgium and Jobbik, the Hungarian
nationalists with their own militia.

Csanád Szegedi, a Jobbik MEP, turned up dressed in the party's black and white
uniform, which is banned in his country. Less sinister was Edvard Kozusnik, the
Czech Civic Democrat MEP, who attended in full Lycra cycling gear, having
pedalled to Strasbourg from Prague.

The BNP pair were swiftly outdone in the publicity stakes by the UK Independence
Party, seated a few rows forward and even farther to the right of the chamber.
The UKIP MEPs won a battle over the Union Jack by displaying three prominently
on their desks. "We have been flying Union Jacks here for years - we have them
on our desks every single day," said Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader. "We will not
be deterred from that by a couple of members of the BNP, because it is not their
flag any more than it is UKIP's flag."

Mr Griffin, MEP for the North West of England, showed that he was prepared to
match UKIP in the headlinemaking stakes when he attacked Baroness Kinnock of
Holyhead, the Europe Minister, for refusing to invite the BNP pair to a
reception for new MEPs today. "I would not want to share a drink with Glenys
Kinnock," Mr Griffin told The Times outside the chamber. "She is a political
prostitute, simple as that. She and her husband started off their careers as
anti-Common Market and now they are there not just with their noses in the
trough, they are in the trough."

Mr Griffin also alleged that civil servants were being instructed to treat the
BNP MEPs differently by denying them access to some information. A government
spokeswoman confirmed that there would not be consultations with the BNP MEPs
over some matters.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons take their places in the European
Parliament
YVES HERMAN / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

Federalists accused of hijacking EU parliament opening

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Strasbourg

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 524  words


FEDERALISTS were accused of hijacking the opening of the new European Parliament
session yesterday after soldiers raised the EU flag to the tune of Europe's
official anthem Ode to Joy.

Critics said they used the event to uphold the flag and anthem, symbols of
European Union statehood that were officially dropped when the  French and Dutch
rejected Europe's Constitution at referendums in 2005.

Leading the ceremony in Strasbourg, a detachment of combat troops marched to the
overture of The Force of Destiny by Verdi, before raising an EU flag twice the
size of the national flags around it to a military bugle call.

The troops - drawn from the Eurocorps member states of Germany, France, Spain,
Belgium and Luxembourg - then stood to attention to a full orchestral and choral
rendition of Ode to Joy.

The corps was created in 1992 as a self-styled "force for the European Union''
and is regarded as an expression of ambitions to create a Euro-army as part of a
federal continent. Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said:
"Today is the EU's equivalent of Trooping the Colour. There is no pretence any
more. The EU is to be a fully militarised state.'' British MEPs have been
angered by the parliament's defiance in clinging on to EU symbols of statehood
that were cut from the Lisbon Treaty after the constitution's rejection.

Timothy Kirkhope, the leader of Conservative MEPs in the EU assembly, accused
European federalists of hijacking the event. "The parliament should focus on its
efforts to increase democracy and accountability in the EU, rather than its
attempt to create a federal Europe,'' he said. "These displays are Europe
attempting to take upon itself a character that the vast majority of its
citizens do not want.''

The link between the EU and military ambitions to create a European army is
deeply controversial in Ireland as the country, which has remained outside Nato,
gears up for a second referendum on the treaty on Oct 2. Joe Higgins, a
Socialist Party MEP for Dublin, said: "Why should there be military involvement
in the European Parliament? I object to that. Is this part of a process of
trying to get people used to the idea of a military EU?''

Fears of "militarism'' played a major part in last year's Irish rejection of the
treaty and the Eurocorps involvement in the parliament's opening will be taken
up by Ireland's "No'' campaigners over the next three months.

"Drafting in combat soldiers to raise the European flag is politically explosive
as Ireland prepares to hold a second Lisbon Treaty vote and after the Irish
government denied any link between the EU and militarism,'' said Roger Cole of
Dublin's Peace and Neutrality Alliance.

Troops from Eurocorps form part of Nato's rapid response forces and have served
during operations in Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan over the past 14 years.
Major Juan Billon, the Spanish Eurocorps officer leading the honours squad in
Strasbourg, insisted that his troops were proud to be present at an EU political
ceremony.

"It is very important for us. It is what Eurocorps is about. The EU is really
what we belong to. It is our first vocation,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

National: Voters want Tory spending axe to fall, poll shows: Brown fails to put
across message on recession: Cameron's majority would be more than 50 seats

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 560 words


The Conservatives have won round one in the party battle over spending, the
latest Guardian/ICM poll suggests. Voters are keener on the Tory message that
spending must fall than the Labour one that increases will help to fight the
recession.

The figures suggest the prime minister's efforts to define the political battle
around the issue of Labour spending v Tory cuts has failed.

Today's Guardian/ICM poll shows that 64% of voters think the government should
be reducing spending now, against only 28% who want to see it increase.

It is no surprise that Tory voters are most enthusiastic about reductions: 73%
back them. More significant is the about-turn in Labour and Liberal Democrat
attitudes. A majority of Labour voters, 55%, and of Lib Dems, 57%, pick cuts.
Even among Labour voters only 38% want to see spending continue to rise.

Attitudes are consistent among different ages, regions and social groups. Voters
in the poorest DE category pick cuts over spending by 63% to 28%.

For the Conservatives this may be only a theoretical victory. People are more
likely to support cuts when they do not know the details, or how they will be
affected.

But the poll also suggests that among the two-thirds of voters who want cuts,
the Conservatives are more trusted to carry them out than Labour. More of these
voters think Labour would cut spending too little, 46%, than think it would cut
too much, 21%, or get the total about right, 26%.

People see the Tories as tougher, which today may be an advantage. While 22%
think the Tories would cut too little, and 30% say too much, 42% think the
Conservatives would get the total about right.

The figures represent a shift in public attitudes since Labour won three
election victories while promising investment in public services. Now 29% of
those Labour supporters who want cuts fear even the Tories would not go far
enough in controlling public spending.

These results suggest the next election may be fought around the question of
which party is better placed to make savings, rather than invest in services.

The Conservatives would easily win if there was a contest tomorrow, the poll
suggests. Their 14-point lead and 41% share would mean a Westminster majority of
well over 50 seats. That lead is the largest in a Guardian/ICM poll this year
and the seventh month in a row it has been in double figures.

Tory support is lower than in many polls before the expenses crisis, and lower
than Labour achieved in ICM polls before its landslide 1997 win. But Labour,
unchanged at 27%, is not benefiting from the decline in support for other
smaller parties, down three points to 12%. Joint support for nationalist parties
is 3%, the Greens are at 3% and Ukip at 3%.

Labour's score is the joint worst in a Guardian/ICM poll for over a year. Only
twice in the 25-year history of the Guardian series has Labour support been
lower.

Only 54% of people who voted Labour at the last election plan to vote for it
next time; 16% have defected to the Tories. By contrast, 88% of past Tories and
63% of 2005 Lib Dem voters are staying loyal.

Voters are hostile to the Conservatives over David Cameron's decision to retain
his communications director, Andy Coulson, after last week's Guardian report
into activities at the newspaper he used to edit, the News of the World. Most,
61%, think Coulson should resign; only 30% want him to stay.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

'A sad day for Britain' as BNP members take European parliament seats

LENGTH: 726 words

ABSTRACT

Labour party's leader in Europe laments arrival of Nick Grifffin and Andrew
Brons in Strasbourg chamber

FULL TEXT

Eight minutes after most of Europe's class of 2009 stood for Beethoven's Ode to
Joyearlier today, the new MEPs for North West England and Yorkshire and
Humberside sidled to their black leather seats at the back of the Strasbourg
chamber.

"Just finding our feet, new boys at a very large school," Nick Griffin, the
British National party leader, said after he and his colleague, Andrew Brons,
had occupied seats 780 and 781 in the second row from the rear of the large blue
and white hall.

They missed the Beethoven, skulked at the back of the class. Brons fiddled with
a blue and white Samsonite bag on his desk, apparently nonplussed by the
electronic voting gadgetry in front of him.

Griffin took the little credit card-like piece of plastic, slipped it in the
slot, pointed to the small screen and showed his colleague how democracy works
in the European parliament.

The duo were surrounded by likeminded colleagues - a trio of Hungarian
gypsy-haters, a quartet of Dutch Islam-baiters, a pair of Austrians elected on a
platform of antisemitism, a French father and daughter team with the elder
believing the Holocaust is a myth, and a sprinkling of Italian racists.

"A sad day for Britain," Glenis Willmott, the Labour party's leader in Europe,
said. "Two UK fascists are taking their seats in this parliament for the first
time."

Timothy Kirkhope, a leading Tory MEP, said he was "not particularly
uncomfortable" sitting in the Strasbourg assembly with two British extremists at
his back.

"I'm not happy - but they were elected by the people of Britain," he added. "If
enough people in Yorkshire decide they want the BNP as part of the system,
that's their choice."

While Wilmott vowed that "we will not let matters rest", it was Glenys rather
then Glenis who was the target of Griffin's fury.

The new UK Europe minister, Glenys Kinnock, is to host a drinks reception in
Strasbourg tonight for 70 of the 72 members of the new parliamentary intake from
Britain.

Griffin and Brons are the sole British MEPs not to have been invited.

"They said we couldn't join in the champagne trough," Brons complained.

Griffin sounded like the new boy at school who had not been allowed to take part
in the football game.

"I wouldn't want to share a drink with Glenys Kinnock anyway," he said. "They
[the Kinnocks] haven't got their noses in the trough, they're in the trough."

While Griffin parades as a true-blue patriot, at times yesterday he sounded
fonder of the continental Europeans than his countrymen.

"We're speaking happily with European nationalists. I even spoke to several
German Greens," he said. "But there is very childish behaviour from some of the
British."

He complained that the Democratic Unionist Diane Dodds, a Northern Ireland MEP,
had abandoned her seat when she discovered she had been put next to Brons.

Sure enough, the seat to the left of the former Harrogate lecturer was vacant.

Griffin sounded a tad chippy when he said: "We're here as second class citizens
as far as the British government is concerned. Unfortunate, but not a surprise."

For MEPs who detest the EU and all its works, Griffin and Brons also sounded as
though they were catching a mild dose of Euro fever.

Brons said he was looking for a small flat in Brussels to share with his party
leader and said both men would be assiduous attendees at the parliament in
Brussels and Strasbourg, where they have been allocated seats on the environment
and constitutional affairs committees.

His acknowledgment - or otherwise - of Brussels' legitimacy was confused.

"Our default position is that this place and Brussels have no right whatsoever
to legislate on Britain. But since they also have that power, we're not here as
total abstentionists," he said.

The two new members were on their best behaviour, wary of creating a British
nationalist rumpus. Instead, they were upstaged on that score by Nigel Farage,
the UK Independence party leader.

"There's no more pretending," thundered Farage about the Beethoven, flagwaving,
and ceremonies that ushered in the new parliament. "They [Europe] want to be a
global military superpower."

And the Tory Geoffrey Van Orden noted of the complexion of the new class of
2009: "The British members were elected overwhelmingly on a Eurosceptic wave."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

An ode, but not much joy as new Euro MPs turn up for work

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words


Accompanied by a militaristic flagraising ceremony and the strains of
Beethoven's Ode to Joy - the European anthem - the new members of the most
Eurosceptic European Parliament gathered in Strasbourg yesterday to begin work.

Hans-Gert Pöttering, the outgoing President of the Parliament, urged MEPs to
unite to freeze "anti-Europeans" out of the decision-making process for the next
five years.

About a fifth of the 736 MEPs will be in groups that favour either less EU
integration or withdrawal - including the 25 Conservatives, 13 UK Independence
Party and two BNP members from Britain.

"I think it is very important that the pro-European MEPs co-operate well so the
anti-Europeans cannot make their voices heard so strongly," Mr Pöttering, said.
The former President, who is furious at David Cameron's decision to leave the
main centre-right group and form an anti-federalist bloc, told The Times: "[The
Parliament] depends on those who are willing to unite Europe."

References to the flag and anthem were removed from the EU constitution to tone
down its trappings of statehood when it was redrafted as the Lisbon treaty after
it was rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands.

The Irish Republic will vote in a second referendum on the treaty on October 2.
That did not stop troops from the 1,000-strong Eurocorps garrison - consisting
of soldiers from France, Germany, Belgium, Spain and Luxembourg - raising the
gold-starred blue EU flag yesterday.

"Soldiers are part of the defence of our values of human rights, democracy and
the law, and this is part of our value system of the European Union," Mr
Pöttering said.

"We do not want a European superstate - we want a European Union that is strong
because no country alone can defend its interests.

"We respect the identity of our regions and our villages and counties and this
makes Europe rich."

Eurosceptics were unimpressed and members of UKIP sang the British national
anthem during Ode to Joy.

Senior Conservative MEPs were dismayed at the prospect of the main centre-right
group, the European People's Party (EPP), co-ordinating with the main
centre-left bloc to exclude Eurosceptics from key decisions.

Nirj Deva, a Conservative MEP, said: "What has distressed me is that the EPP is
doing deals with the Socialists and the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats,
rather than doing deals with us.

"On policy areas we should work together."

In a ceremony last night to give medals to the 400 retiring MEPs Mr Pöttering
said: "You were responsible for uniting the European people."

'Parliament depends on those who are willing to unite Europe'

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              July 12, 2009 Sunday

THE ZAPPER

BYLINE: BY MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

LENGTH: 594 words


WHAT THEY'RE REALLY SAYING WHEN THE CREDITS START TO ROLL...

Discussions are taking place at the highest levels of the BBC to tackle 'the BNP
problem'. Now that the far-Right party has two MEPs, it has been lobbying the
Corporation for a presence on programmes such as Question Time on BBC1 and Radio
4's Any Questions. A senior BBC source says that it is no longer possible to bat
away the BNP because the party has a strong legal case for representation:
'There is a precedent. When UKIP first gained a presence in Brussels, we had to
include them on Question Time. We have to consider all recognised parties.'

It was good of the BBC to help Adrian Chiles and Christine Bleakley, right,
confirm the rumours that they are ... tennis fans. During the Wimbledon ladies'
final last weekend, a camera homed in on The One Show presenters for a few
seconds sitting side by side. Both were wearing dark glasses. The collar of
Chiles's shirt was also turned up. What's with the disguises?

Still no transmission date for An Englishman In New York, the sequel to the 1975
classic The Naked Civil Servant, starring John Hurt as author Quentin Crisp. ITV
spent a considerable amount of time and money last year on the production, which
also features Sex And The City's Cynthia Nixon, but there's been an inexplicable
delay. The film was shown at a US festival several months ago where it was well
received.

Rumours persist that Margaret Mountford, one of Sir Alan Sugar's sidekicks on
The Apprentice, did not leave the show voluntarily. The lawyer, who became a
huge hit thanks to her withering glances towards contestants, is to pursue her
academic studies at University College London. But a source who is helping to
prepare the next Apprentice series claims the circumstances surrounding her
departure remain unclear. Still, Margaret clearly has her fans among the BBC
hierarchy ñ the Corporation is running a series of adverts promoting its Ashes
coverage on radio and online which feature the lady herself, alongside
presenters such as Emily Maitlis.

At least ITV cannot be accused of burning money the way other broadcasters do.
Those attending the relaunch of The Bill were given toy police cars with
stickers on the bonnet proclaiming 'The Bill, 9pm, ITV1' to draw attention to
the drama's new start time. Closer inspection of the vehicles revealed they were
ageing Vauxhalls carrying registration plates dating from

1995. An insider says they had been lying in a cupboard for several years
waiting to be 'moved on'.

Pop will eat itself - and leftovers can always be reheated. A new television
quiz called As Seen On TV is a 'highlight' of the BBC's forthcoming autumn
schedule. The show pits two teams of celebrities (yes, them again) against each
other to see who will be crowned the kings of TV trivia. Fern Britton, right,
and Jason Manford (who?) are the captains. Doesn't this format sound identical
to Telly Addicts, the series hosted by Noel Edmonds between 1985 and 1998? But
whereas Telly Addicts was cheap because the teams were members of the public,
this revamped version will cost the BBC money because the 'celebrities' will be
paid. Oh, the irony.

It's the end of an era in the TV industry. John Beyer, successor to Mary
Whitehouse as director of the Viewers' and Listeners' Association (which he
renamed Mediawatch), has announced his retirement as the self-appointed
conscience of broadcasting. Any producers thinking that's the end of the matter
do so in vain. Mr Beyer's successor will be appointed to take up 'the cause'
shortly.

thezapper@mailonsunday.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 975 words


OH MY, HOW SPOOKY! IS MI5 SPYING ON THE EUROSCEPTICS?

HACKING and tapping are in vogue, but what about old-fashioned infiltration of a
legitimate political party?

Just as celebrities claim they have been spied on by Fleet Street's dirty mac
brigade, Eurosceptics fear they are being watched by MI5.

Good grief. At this rate we are going to have to invent a villainous figure
called General Sleuthing and insert him in some schloss in the Peak District,
complete with ravens and pipe organ.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a UKIP peer, put down a parliamentary question this
week. It asked the Government if 'the Security Service has been or is active
inside or towards the United Kingdom Independence Party or any of its members'.

Were the spooks or police collaborating with European investigators in relation
to UKIP? Back came a 'no comment' from Home Office minister Lord West, a bluff
former admiral who might know how to park a frigate on a sixpence, but is less
convincing as a dealer of unvarnished truths.

He said MI5 is prohibited from 'doing anything in furtherance of the interests
of a political party'.

True, skipper, but not quite an answer to Lord Pearson's question.

Here's the nub. The Government states that European Union membership is in the
national interest. UKIP disagrees. Might not MI5, applying logic, therefore say
it should put a tail on UKIP's wilder elements? After all, the spooks exist to
protect our national interest. Pearson is a member of pukka White's club in St
James's. He was schooled at Eton, stalks some of the finest acres in the
Highlands and fishes their streams. He is not one of your flapping-trouser geeks
who can easily be bullied. He is also a friend of Lord Tebbit, who recently
asked a parliamentary question about the criteria MI5 uses when monitoring
'political organisations regarded as working against the national interest'.
Tebbit, too, received a dead bat from Westy.

Me smells rat. Would it not be unwise of John Prescott and Charles Clarke to
create a hoo-hah about Press intrusion if their Government has been using MI5 to
spy on Eurosceptics?

OLD soldiers campaigning for a National Defence Medal for all veterans have long
been perplexed. Why do their pleas to ministers bear no fruit? Now comes a
possible explanation: petty-minded officials at the Ministry of Defence.

Former Defence Secretary Des Browne, after losing office, recently met some of
the valiant lads supporting the idea of the medal. He bridled when they
criticised him for failing to support their campaign in his Cabinet days. 'I
never saw your letters,' said Des. Several messages had been sent. None got
through.

Whitehall regards medals as its territory. It hates the thought of politicians
interfering. It was the same story a few years ago when Suez Emergency veterans
were seeking a decoration.

The ministers were kept out of the loop by obstructive, patch-defending
secretaries and pen-pushers.

Bob 'Bollocks' Ainsworth, our new Defence Secretary, is not the brightest or
boldest man to hold that high office. Apart from his comedy moustache, he
appears to have little to commend him to the job.

He could do his reputation a power of good, however, if he demanded to see the
National Defence Medal paperwork, pronto, and put his medals and decorations
officials on a charge.

MAIDEN OVER

LET'S not have future Test matches open with national anthems, as the Cardiff
Test did this week. Cricket is not a game of brutal bone on bone and there is
little need for adrenalinepumping nationalism.

Anthems are OK for soccer and rugby, but please let us return to Test matches
opening with no more fuss than a toss of the coin and some polite applause as
the fielding side welcomes the opening batsmen.

Some say it is good to have national pride. I agree, but only if it represents
the political truth.

If we're to be brutally honest about where the power lies, should the Welsh,
Aussie and British anthems warbled by Katherine Jenkins (pictured) in Cardiff on
Wednesday morning not have been joined by a rendition of the European Union's
Ode To Joy?

THE SQUEAKER'S FOUND A FRIEND

TROUBLING new details about John Bercow, Speaker of the Commons. When plotting
for the job, he used a public relations man with connections to Rupert Murdoch's
newspapers.

Tim Hames, a former leader writer on The Times, is going round town boasting of
his connections to Squeaker Bercow.

This is not good for the Speakership. Hames, a short, rotund yes-man whose
political beliefs bend like young hazel, has washed up at a London PR outfit
called the British Venture Capital Association. Hames was not universally loved
at The Times. Bercow might have found his natural spokesman.

AT THE Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester, they have a jolly new play about
bingo and the audience actually gets to play. Prizes of 620 and 6200 are
dispensed.

On the first night, the 620 was won by a critic, Glenn Meads, and the 6200 went
to an actors' agent, Phillipa Howell. Fix!

FURTHER to my note last week about clan chieftains with repeater names, I am
told that Lachlan

Maclachlan of Maclachlan lives at Castle Lachlan, Loch Lachlan. He may well be
cross-eyed.

There was also the late Sir Gregor Mac-Gregor of MacGregor, Chief of Clan
Gregor.

It's not just the bagpipes that send them mad, you know.

MY DAUGHTER (aged 11) came back from the Royal Show with a colouring book for
our youngest (aged 6). 'It was free!' she squealed.

Not quite, darling. The book was a creepy little propaganda job handed out by
the EC, complete with 42 little logos showing the blue stars of Europe.

We pay for this sort of thing through our taxes.

BARRISTER Alistair Walker, prosecuting this week in the case of the Kent gym
teacher who was a gigolo, described the defendant as having a 'hands-on
position' in his brothel business. Well, I hope so, too. There's not much point
in a ' handsoff' gigolo, is there?

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 10, 2009 Friday

Our call to arms for voters

LENGTH: 568 words

ABSTRACT

Polly Toynbee: Change in the voting system will not come from parliament - we
have to galvanise popular anger, and drive change through

FULL TEXT

Last night's in Westminster Central Hall launched the campaign for a referendum
on a new voting system, to be held at the same time as the next general
election. An alliance of a wide range of parties and groups was there: odd to
see Lib Dems, Greens, climate change activists, pensioners groups, votes-at-16
campaigners, fair traders and a plethora of others sharing a platform with a
Ukip MEP. Who wasn't there? The two old parties whose stranglehold on
Westminster is only maintained by the first past the post electoral system -
though Labour has always had some reformers, and spoke for them. Not one Tory
can be found, alas, in or out of the Commons.

KT Tunstall and Billy Bragg sang, and Blur's drummer  made a foot-stamping
speech. This campaign can only work if it can galvanise all the popular anger
against the current political system and direct it towards an unstoppable demand
for constructive change. Can it be done? It's a tall order in a short time. If
you support it, text Change to 60013 and recruit as many others as you can. Go
to  for news on events being set up around the country. Help is needed now.

I  to send in questions for the Vote for a Change platform and these were
chosen. Here they are, with a few answers:

: What does the panel think about making voting compulsory? Peter Tatchell
replied "No. If politicians can't persuade voters, then voters have a right not
to turn up." Dave Rowntree (though Blur's drummer, he is now a Labour candidate,
radical rat-joins-sinking-ship), says: "No. It sounds too Soviet to me. I'd go
for votes at 16, get people used to the habit of voting young." Ken Ritchie,
head of the Electoral Reform Society: "I'd want no part in forcing people to
vote, especially under the present system where most people's votes are useless
anyway. I want people to vote because it's important, not because they'll be
fined if they don't."

asked: How can you get MPs to have more allegiance to their constituency than
their party?'s question amounted to the same: Are there any proposals for the
removal of an MP by their constituents?

Tatchell replied: If 30% of constituents sign a petition, the MP should have to
submit themselves to a vote.

Rowntree: PR would go some way to help, especially with STV in multi-member
constituencies, where several MPs compete to represent their voters.

Ritchie: Under PR if your MP is, say, some fox-hunting Tory, at least you have
another choice, either with STV or with the AV-plus system, where you can choose
someone else from an open list.

asked: "What would be the question asked in such a referendum?"

Tatchell and Rowntree said: Ask two questions on the referendum paper. First,
should there be a change in the voting system so the number of seats more
closely corresponds to the number of votes? The second question lays out several
options including STV and AV-plus.

Ritchie said: Politicians will be partisan, so we need a citizens convention to
hear all the evidence and choose the best questions for the referendum ballot
paper.

Sign up now! No pressure for change will come from parliament where the
beneficiaries of the present system sit.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

National: BNP leader urges EU to sink boats with migrants on board: Block off
Mediterranean, crossing, says Griffin: Party fails to form alliance in European
parliament

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 420 words


Boats carrying illegal migrants to Europe should be sunk Nick Griffin, the
leader of the British National party, said yesterday.

In a provocative intervention, Griffin, elected to the European parliament last
month, called on the EU to introduce "very tough" measures to prevent illegal
migrants entering Europe from Africa.

"If there's measures to set up some kind of force or to help, say the Italians,
set up a force which actually blocks the Mediterranean then we'd support that,"
Griffin told BBC Parliament's The Record Europe.

"But the only measure, sooner or later, which is going to stop immigration and
stop large numbers of sub-Saharan Africans dying on the way to get over here is
to get very tough with those coming over. Frankly, they need to sink several of
those boats. Anyone coming up with measures like that, we'll support, but
anything which is there as a 'oh, we need to do something about it' but in the
end doing something about it means bringing them into Europe we will oppose."

Shirin Wheeler, the programme's presenter, interrupted him to say the EU did not
murder people. "I didn't say anyone should be murdered at sea - I say boats
should be sunk, they can throw them a life raft and they can go back to Libya,"
Griffin said. "But Europe has, sooner or later, to close its borders or it's
simply going to be swamped by the third world."

Griffin's comments were especially controversial because many thousands of
migrants from sub-Saharan Africa attempt to make the crossing to Europe on
rickety boats during the summer. Many land on Lampedusa, the Italian island less
than 100 miles from Tunisia. The BBC said 37,000 migrants landed on Italian
shores last year, a 75% increase on the year before.

Italy gave Libya three patrol boats in May to help control the number of
migrants crossing the Mediterranean. The BBC reported that Roberto Maroni, the
Italian interior minister, a member of the anti-immigration Northern League, had
described the first 200 migrants returned to Libya as a "historic" moment.

Griffin also said the BNP failed to form an alliance in the European parliament
with parties from other EU countries. He said talks with the French National
Front and Italy's Northern League had broken down after the Italian party
decided to sit with the UK Independence party.

"No one was prepared to commit themselves knowing that we had not got (the
Northern League) on board," Griffin told parliament.com. "Even so, we will
continue to work together with these other groups and share ideas."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

UK diplomats shun BNP officials in Europe

LENGTH: 660 words

ABSTRACT

Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons will be denied some of the access and socialising
afforded to 70 other British representatives

FULL TEXT

The government is to single out Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons, the British
National party's two newly elected representatives in the European parliament,
for special treatment, denying them some of the access and information afforded
to all the other 70 UK MEPs.

Under new guidelines drafted in Whitehall and in the Foreign Office following
the June elections to the European parliament, the two BNP leaders will be kept
at arms' length from the kind of routine contacts and socialising that take
place between British civil servants and MEPs in Brussels and Strasbourg.

When the new parliament convenes next week in Strasbourg, Glenys Kinnock, the
new Europe minister, is to host a reception for all British MEPs. Only Griffin
and Brons have not been invited.

"Officials will not engage in any other contact with elected representatives of
any nationality who represent extremist or racist views, unless specific
permission has been granted to do so on a particular occasion from the FCO
permanent under-secretary and the minister for Europe," said a government
spokesperson.

The official said that the BNP duo would be subject to the "same general
principles governing official impartiality" and they would receive "standard
written briefings as appropriate from time to time."

But British diplomats made plain that they would not be "proactive" in dealing
with the BNP MEPs and that any requests for policy briefings from Griffin or
Brons would be treated differently and on a discretionary basis.

A Brussels-based civil servant said it was acceptable for him to meet MEPs
across the party spectrum for a drink, but that any such meetings with Griffin
or Brons would be frowned upon.

The MEPs of the anti-EU UK Independence Party have been invited to next week's
government reception.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said he was satisfied that he was treated equally
by the 155 diplomats and civil servants working at the British mission to the
EU, known as Ukrep, in Brussels.

"During the British [EU] presidency in 2005, I remember Jack Straw telling me
that we'll be treated the same as all the others," said Farage. "If we ring
Ukrep, we would expect to be treated fairly by them. If we contact them, they
help us even though they're almost certainly closer to the other parties. We've
not found them to withhold stuff from us if we ask."

Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat MEP, said that the BNP represented a special
case and that the government was entitled to differentiate in its dealings with
elected representatives.

"A line has been crossed [with the BNP]. It's a difference of degree. It's not
surprising that the government has to draw up guidelines to deal with a
different situation."

Following the European elections, the civil service and government officials
considered a range of options for dealing with the BNP, from an inclusive
non-discriminatory approach to total quarantine, effectively ostracising them.
David Miliband, the foreign secretary, is said to have signed off a decision
that would bar the BNP people from government and embassy events in Brussels,
while providing the extremists with some policy information.

"I don't think the policy of isolating them, of a cordon sanitaire, will work at
all," said Farage. "It's a mistake. They're elected representatives, whether we
like it or not."

The isolation has been compounded by Griffin's failure over the past week to
cobble together an alliance of extremists in the parliament in order to qualify
for official caucus status and thus benefit from better funding, speaking time,
and committee positions.

To qualify, a parliamentary fraction needs to muster 25 MEPs from at least seven
EU countries. Griffin's signature failure was not persuading Italy's
anti-immigration party, Liga Nord, to join him. Instead the Italians linked up
with Farage's Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 6, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Freedom of speech can't be unlimited

BYLINE: Yasmin Alibhai-Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1018 words


Libertarians and free expression campaigners were jubilant last week. An
obscenity case was due to be heard against Darryn Walker, a 35-year-old civil
servant who had posted an essay on a website, titled Girls (scream) Aloud,
imagining the sexual torture and mutilation of each of the women who make up the
pop group.

In his fantasy, they are slashed and dismembered and, according to Don Grubin, a
consultant psychiatrist, the singers "are sexually aroused in spite of and,
indeed, because of the humiliation, pain and domination". This apparently modern
erotica is known as "popslash". Cool, man.

The case was dropped and is celebrated as another important knock-back for
censorship. Sadly I felt unable to join in with the good cheer. Something is
deeply troubling about the validation given to Walker and those who think they
have the right to say whatever they wish and excitedly share with others the
thrills of extreme violence against women.

The formidable Geoffrey Robertson QC (who rose to fame fighting the case brought
against Oz) is very pleased indeed. Jo Glanville, editor of Index Against
Censorship (an organisation I support but not blindly), righteously asserts:
"The prosecution should not have been brought in the first place. Since the
landmark obscenity cases of the 1960s and 1970s, writers have been protected so
they can explore the extremes of human behaviour. This case posed a serious
threat to that freedom."

Hmmm. Is that so? So if Walker had written, say, the same fantasy but on the
sexual torture of Anne Frank, would Index have backed him? Or if a wannabe
Muslim fiction writer had done the same, would he have the right to "explore the
extremes of human behaviour"? I hope the answer to both these hypothetical
questions is No.

Freedom of speech is a precious right, fought for in Europe over many centuries,
and still denied to billions of humans - as we have just witnessed in Iran and
know to be true of China, African and Arab nations, Burma, and so on. Granted
that in countries where the state oppresses and totally controls its
populations, the people must find ways to subvert the controllers and criticise
their oppressors.

Whistleblowers in institutions must also grab that freedom, so too family
members thwarted by their own. But it is never an absolute entitlement, not
unless you believe it is worth the resulting social discord and terrible
individual wreckage.

We all exercise judgements on what we say or don't say in public. You stop
yourself because you don't want to hurt people, or to instigate a street brawl.
There are laws that sacrifice freedom of speech for a greater good - harmony
between races, public safety, social gentility and so on. We accept libel and
defamation laws (hated by hacks of course), national security injunctions and
establishment secrets (loved by politicians) and underpinning all that is a
general understanding of what would be inappropriate and hateful if expressed in
public.

Not everybody agrees on where the lines should be, but most know there are
lines. These restraints belong to a pre-internet era and cannot contain or
temper the limitlessness of the web. And yet we must, over the next few years,
define the boundaries of what is acceptable in this brazen new world.

It is all very well for Mr Walker to feel like a champion of human rights but
what about the women in Girls Aloud, who are real, not imagined, and whose slow
death can be enjoyed by pervs and killers? They have families, mums, perhaps,
lovers, who too will be feeling caught in a web of horrors. The legal state is
unsettled. Meanwhile the internet is exploding and explosive, having a real
impact on real lives.

Last week I found myself being tailed through town by a weird bloke, who kept
stopping me, once or twice seizing my elbow. Why, he demanded, did I want
British soldiers killed and hurt? This question has been coming at me via email
for a few months. I couldn't understand why.

Someone told me my Wikipedia entry had quoted the NeoCon Doug Murray, who had
attacked me in a book for writing: "There have been times when I have wanted
more chaos, more shocks, more disorder to teach our side a lesson". To put this
in context, what I actually wrote was: "The past months have been disquieting
and challenging for many of us in the anti-war camp. I know and am ashamed to
admit this that there have been times when I have wanted more chaos, more
shocks, more disorder to teach our side a lesson ... The decent people of Iraq
need optimism now not my distasteful ill-wishes for the only hope they have for
the future." If this attack had stayed in Murray's book it would have passed but
bloggers recently picked it up and it has been hell since.

Peter Tatchell tells me that lies are circulated about him and he receives
constant threats. Polly Toynbee and others are subjected to mob fury for no good
reason. Are we just supposed to put up with this behaviour because the web must
be free?

Internet libel law is building up and internet service providers are put under
pressure to remove sites where material is defamatory. Chatrooms and blogs are
increasingly expected to be moderated. The defence of "innocent dissemination"
may not survive.

In 2006, Ukip's Michael Keith won damages after joining a chatroom where
anonymous postings smeared his character and in 2008 a CEO of a housing business
got a large payout after a rival company carried out a malicious personal smear
campaign against him. As the internet is transnational, awareness is growing
that extraordinary care is needed to prevent legal action. Corporate liability,
third party culpability are encouraging mechanisms for self-regulation. In my
view some of this is necessary.

We don't yet have a really effective way of restraining material promoting
racism, sexism, violence (except against children), homophobia, and other group
hatreds. It must come if we are to make the best use of this amazing technology
and not let it pull us down to a barbarism posing as freedom. That, I fear, is
what has happened with Mr Walker and his spurious victory.

y.alibhaibrown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              July 6, 2009 Monday

Letters - Labour implosion

LENGTH: 301 words


Is the British working class waiting for Labour to go back "to representing
their interests" as Graham Day claims (M Star June 16)? It might be a long wait.

Labour faces devastation at the next election. All the major contenders to
replace Brown were involved in the new Labour "project" and have responsibility
for implementing the pro-market, pro-war agenda of both the Blair and Brown
governments.

Labour voters did not switch to the Tories, BNP or UKIP, they simply did not
vote. But they cannot be left in such limbo. There are over 200,000 people who
have quit Labour, a figure greater than the party's membership. The vast
majority have not joined another party. Campaigns like Stop the War provide a
focus of activity, but there remains a strong desire for a united, effective
left alternative.

Many trade unionists must bridle at the idea that their money will be used to
help fraudsters like Hazel Blears or James Purnell seek re-election. PCS leader
Mark Serwotka's idea that trade union-backed candidates should run against
Purnell and Pat McFadden, who is steering postal privatisation through the
Commons, is a sensible one.

What Graham does not explain is how we could change Labour from within when its
members have been effectively disenfranchised.

On Tom Burr's point (M Star June 16) that we need working-class unity to fight
the recession and much else, yes. But while it is true that the unions need to
embrace all workers of whatever opinion, surely we need to build a political
pole of attraction which is 100 per cent anti-racist, anti-war and
anti-capitalist in order to win a majority of the working class, in action, to
such ideas.

For that reason I endorse Chris Bambery's appeal (M Star June 10) for left unity
against the BNP, for jobs for all and on polling day.

DAN MAYER, London N1.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday

Primary logic

LENGTH: 710 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Luckhurst: Britons need to choose who will represent us in parliament. That
means choosing the candidates, not just the parties

FULL TEXT

If voters in Norwich North are determined to kick the government, and team
Cameron is diligent, the constituency will soon be represented in the House of
Commons by . To people who care deeply about representative democracy her age
will be among the least significant aspects of 27-year-old Chloe Smith's
victory.

What really stinks about this Conservative candidate applies equally to her
counterparts in all the other parties contesting this byelection and to all
those preparing to fight a general election: each was chosen by a minuscule
minority of the electorate consisting of people whose choice of social activity
identifies them as implausible barometers of local opinion.

, Smith writes, "I was first chosen to be the Conservative candidate for the
constituency of Norwich North by local people 18 months ago." A candid version
would acknowledge that she was actually chosen by active members of the Norwich
North Conservative Association. They are among the vanishingly small minority of
approximately 290,000 British subjects who pay to be members of the Conservative
party.

To find rarer creatures, look no further than Labour and the Liberal Democrats -
they can muster only about 200,000 and 70,000 members respectively. Not all of
these members are actively involved in key decisions such as the choice of
parliamentary candidates. A selection meeting in which half the local members of
a political party participates is rarer than teddy bear's blood.

So, in normal general elections, when the government is chosen by a handful of
floating voters in marginal constituencies, this means that the majority of MPs
is chosen by the tiny coterie who can be bothered to take part in local
politics. I admire these folk (unless they work for the BNP or UKIP), but to
pretend they are representative of the electorate at large is demented.

That was almost true when political parties were huge organisations, millions
strong, with representatives in workplaces throughout the land. But by
preserving the selection powers of political parties in the era of disengagement
we are using a 19th century mechanism to address a 21st century problem.

Making representative democracy work demands more than a  and steam cleaning of
. Britons need to choose who will represent us in parliament. That means
choosing the candidates not just the parties. The exhausted old pantomime in
which we troop to the polls once every five years to express a preference for
one colour of rosette over another is no longer fit for purpose.

Would people participate in ? Almost certainly not at first, but that is no
reason to dismiss their potential. Competitive primaries might promote the
careers of candidates who do not stand a chance in conventional selection
procedures. They would certainly encourage such people to recruit local
supporters to fight their cause. If that happened primaries could loosen the
grip of the moribund party machines that have helped to bring parliament into
disrepute.

So, there is even an outside chance that lively primary battles might attract
young people to politics, and so revive parties. And primary elections should
become still more attractive if proportional representation is forced onto the
parliamentary agenda. List systems in which parties make every decision about
the calibre and character of candidates are an atrocious flaw in many
superficially fair voting systems.

Granted, mandatory primaries will not immediately give this country hundreds of
local battles to compare with Barack Obama's victory over Hilary Clinton. But
they would make such contests possible by offering voters a chance to
participate in local politics in a directly and obviously meaningful way.

Call me naive, but it takes egregious cynicism to dismiss the simple virtue of
letting the people decide who will hold the executive to account on their
behalf. Similar cynicism within all our major parties treated the flipping of
second home allowances as so common as to be not worth mentioning. Look where
that got British politics.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  July 5, 2009
                                 First Edition

The IoS Diary;
Unrivalled for its backhanders

BYLINE: Matthew Bell

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 721 words


It could be grounds for divorce. Anthony Seldon has reneged on a promise to his
wife never to write another book about a prime minister. The headmaster of
Wellington made the pledge on the final page of Blair Unbound, his 2007
biography of Tony Blair, apologising for the 18-hour days he worked, but I can
reveal he is embarking on a book about Gordon Brown, called Brown at Ten, to be
published in October 2010. Seldon says his book is not a biography but will be
about the 10 turning points in Brown's premiership: "Oh my goodness, I thought I
said I wouldn't write a biography," he splutters when I call, "I have some work
to do with Joanna. Although she seemed all right about the book when I mentioned
it. There will be a lot of flowers coming her way."

?????????

The BBC has got it in for Craig Murray - so says the former ambassador to
Uzbekistan, who is standing as an independent candidate for Norwich North. He
claims he was deliberately left out of a report on Newsnight last week, in which
political editor Michael Crick profiled the main candidates in the by-election.
The package ended with a list of the candidates on screen, from which Murray was
again excluded. "I am truly shocked," he says, "Michael Crick certainly knows I
am standing." Linened flâneur Martin Bell is outraged too: "It is very wrong
that Craig Murray was not featured on Newsnight. He is a serious candidate, and
serious independents must be given fair coverage by the media alongside the
major political parties." But Michael Crick laughs it off when I call: "Oh yes,
that's right, it's all a big conspiracy, ordered by the BBC governors. Of course
it's not. It was an accident. We're not obliged to report all the candidates.
He'll have to join the queue behind the BNP and Ukip candidates to be
interviewed. It's much ado about nothing." Whom to believe?

?????????

Veteran travel writer Colin Thubron caused a stir at architect Charles Jencks'
70th birthday party last week by fainting, waking up at the feet of The
Spectator's literary editor, Mark Amory. "I'm fine now," he tells me, "I had
just come back from Tibet the day before where I caught a stomach bug. It was
much worse for my poor girlfriend, who must have thought I'd had a stroke."
Having written books on Siberia and the Great Wall, Thubron now hopes to write
up his trip to Tibet, where he circumnavigated the Buddhist holy mountain of
Kailash and celebrated his own 70th birthday. "I spent it with a couple of
Sherpas, who made me an endearingly disgusting cake."

?????????

George Osborne may regret "flipping" his designated second home from his London
house to his Cheshire farmhouse, following news he is to be investigated for
sleaze. But neighbours in Notting Hill are delighted that he now calls W11 home.
"It's wonderful," says writer Duncan Fallowell, "I've been asking the council to
plant more trees here for 20 years, and they have done nothing. Other frustrated
residents have complained about the muggings and junkies, and the tarts
decorating Westbourne Park Road - although personally I don't mind them, I find
them picturesque. But now, mysteriously, the council has swung into action. It's
like the influence of a ghost nobody has yet seen."

?????????

To the Cafe Anglais, Rowley Leigh's cruise ship-inspired restaurant in
Bayswater, for the inaugural Scrabble Club. Organised by columnist Liza
Campbell, below, Thursday's event was sold out despite taking place on the
busiest night in London, clashing with David Frost's summer party, Lord
Weidenfeld's 90th, Faber's annual do and The Spectator summer party, to name a
few. Four Weddings writer Richard Curtis was among those battling for the Alfred
Butts Cup, named after Scrabble's inventor, which was won by Sue Swift. Sculptor
Aly van den Berg won the Rotorua Plate, named after the New Zealand town where
the only known Scrabble-related murder took place.

?????????

Jools Holland, Richard Adams and Candida Lycett Green were among those who gave
thanks for the life of the "radical traditionalist" John Michell at his memorial
service last week. Beat poet Michael Horowitz gave a rendition of William
Blake's poem "Ah! Sun-Flower". Michell, who died of lung cancer in May, was an
authority on crop circles and ley lines. He married and divorced a female druid
shortly before his death.

m.bell@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Curb on outdoor smoking

SECTION: NEWS; 36

LENGTH: 143  words


SMOKING could be banned in beer gardens, bus shelters and even parks under new
EU plans.

Smoking should be outlawed in all public places, the European Commission says.

Brussels wants bans on indoor smoking to include "any space covered by a roof or
enclosed by one or more walls or sides, regardless of the type of material used
and regardless of whether the structure is permanent or temporary".

This restriction could extend the smoking ban to any beer garden that has a wall
around it. The EU also wants to redefine "public places" to extend the ban to
include parks and music festivals.

Mark Hastings, of the British Beer and Pub Association, attacked the plans and
Godfrey Bloom, a Ukip MEP for Yorkshire, urged smokers to engage in "civil
disobedience" if further restrictions are brought in.

The smoking ban has already driven hundreds of pubs out of business.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Lithgow's punchy style is perfect for knocking sense into Lloyds bunglers;
The Insider

SECTION: FINANCE; 4

LENGTH: 172  words


WHO is behind Lloyds Action Now, one of the more vocal groups dedicated to
mounting a legal action on behalf of Lloyds TSB shareholders against directors
of the bank over what they see as a bungled merger with HBOS?

I can reveal it is none other than Adrian "Disco" Lithgow, who used to be head
of communications at the UK Independence Party and is former political editor of
The Mail on Sunday to boot.

If Disco's recent past is anything to go by, one wonders if he is a good man to
have on your side in a fight. In May 2007 he was fined GBP 60 and ordered to pay
GBP 400 compensation for aggravated harassment and threatening behaviour.

It seems that after a drinking session the PR man went to London's Victoria
station and got into an argument with railway staff.

The court heard Lithgow branded one rail worker "a piece of s**t" before
attacking another with an umbrella and hurling a hot pasty at someone else.

He could be just the chap to take on Sir Victor Blank and other former directors
of the bank for mismanaging the HBOS merger.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIERY: Adrian Lithgow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 3, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Angry city's disillusion with Labour turns Tory 'no-hoper' into a credible
contender

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 846 words


Norwich is a wounded, angry city. Its football team has been relegated, the
nearby coastline is in peril and one of the city's two much loved veteran MPs
has been humiliated over his expenses and has quit Parliament.

Now the responsibility of representing this proud capital of East Anglia looks
likely to fall, unexpectedly, to a 27-year-old management consultant.

Until last month Chloe Smith had been gently honing her political ambitions by
standing as a Tory candidate in a long-shot Labour seat - 163 on the target list
- and planning her next sponsored cycle ride. That was before the downfall of
her Labour rival in Norwich North, Ian Gibson. In three weeks a by-election may
send her to Westminster, not only as Parliament's youngest MP but also as the
first of a new breed untainted by the expenses scandal.

But first she must win over a constituency whose fury has focused not on Dr
Gibson's cut-price sale of a London flat to his daughter but on Labour's "silly
and vindictive" decision consequently to ban him from standing at the next
general election - which provoked his resignation.

Dr Gibson's independence from Government drew many local followers. "I put
people and sound judgment first, before political ambition," he tells
constituents on his website.

But in the month since Ms Smith was thrust into the spotlight, she has shown
that she has learnt the language of the loyal machine politician, promising
voters a "fresh" voice advocating "clean politics". She has already forsworn her
right to food and furniture on the taxpayer and promised to allow auditors to
crawl over her claims. "People finally have a great opportunity to vote for
change," she said when the by-election date was announced. "I urge people to
send a message to Gordon Brown about our economy and about cleaning up politics
by voting for me."

Already Ms Smith, who finished her English degree at York in 2004, is being
tipped for greater things. "With Chloe, you'll have something of a high flyer -
someone who, in a year's time, in a Conservative government, is going to have
some clout here," a wellconnected supporter said.

Outside the Asda supermarket where Dr Gibson once held his surger-iesthis has
not gone down well. "She's condescending and sounds a bit pompous. She's got a
lot of living to do. I don't think I will vote for anyone," said Gladys Lake,
79. Raymond Briggs, 70, a former Gibson supporter, said he hadn't made up his
mind, but said that Ms Smith was "a bit young".

The Labour Party faces an even harder task. It has chosen an unlikely candidate:
Chris Ostrowski, 28, a manager for John Lewis and the party's seventh-choice
candidate in the Eastern region in the European elections. The campaign had a
slow start, with the candidate spending two days this week in London working,
and a local spokesman saying that Bob Blizzard, the Labour whip and Suffolk MP
running the campaign, had not appeared in the office until yesterday.

By contrast the Tories are deploying the same "vast" team used to secure the
Crewe and Nantwich by-election, where the party achieved a swing from Labour to
Conservative of 17.6 per cent. It includes campaigners such as Stephen Gilbert,
from Lord Ashcroft's Target Seats team. According to one Labour source, the
Labour Party's only hope is to campaign on its record of local investment and
appeal to Gordon Brown to stay away from the constituency.

"If the party tries to make it a contest over Mr 10 Per Cent [the Labour
advertisement accusing David Cam-eroof planning 10 per cent cuts] it'll be a
disaster."

The Liberal Democrats are pinning their hopes on a charismatic candidate, April
Pond, although they admit they did not perform well in last month's local
elections.

The biggest unknowns are the Greens, who were virtually tied with Labour in a
poll of the constituency ten days ago. Their candidate, Rupert Read, an academic
at the University of East Anglia, is campaigning to limit vast housing
developments. He recognises that they are unlikely to beat the Conservatives.
"The interesting question is who is on the up and whether we will come second,"
he said.

Number crunching in Norwich North

2005 general election result Conservative 15,638 (33.2%); Labour 21,097 (44.9%);
Lib Dem 7,616 (16.2%); Green 1,252 (2.7%); UKIP 1,122 (2.4%); Other 308 (0.7%).
Majority 5,459 (11.6%).

The Conservatives need a 5.8% swing from Labour, although an increase in the
Green vote could lower this figure

Results for Norwich North wards in June 2009 county elections Conservative
10,656 (40.1%); Labour 4,953 (18.6%); Lib Dem 4,371 (16.5%); Green 4,251
(16.0%); UKIP - standing in only four seats - 2,106 (7.9%); BNP 228 (0.9%)

Constituency Total 2001 population 83,507: male 48.8%; female 51.2%; under-18s
20.4%; over-60s 24%; born outside UK 3.5%; white 98.3%; black 0.2%; Asian 0.5%;
Christian 69.2%; full-time students 2.2%; graduates under 75 12.4%; no
qualifications, 16-74, 33.1%; owner-occupiers 69.2%; social housing tenants
21.4%

Source: Eastern Daily Press, UK Polling report

Ian Gibson: many Labour voters are unhappy about his resignation

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victory would make Chloe Smith, 27, the country's youngest MP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday

Is the EU in the sway of Big Tobacco?

LENGTH: 826 words

ABSTRACT

David Cronin: The EU's timid anti-smoking legislation shows it is incapable of
standing up to the lobbying might of the tobacco industry

FULL TEXT

Maybe there's still hope for journalism when the News of the World manages to
squeeze in a story or two unrelated to Michael Jackson. "European zealots", the
paper told us on Sunday, are  outside pubs and offices. The ever-reliable ,
newly re-elected MEP for Ukip, was rolled out to fulminate against this latest
affront to his nation's sovereignty. "It's beyond the nanny state," he said.
"It's the bully state. Do they want to close down the English pub?"

The truth, as you may have guessed, is a little more complex. Yes, it's correct
that the European commission has  that will not go down too well with some
smokers. Citing estimates that more than one-quarter of the 79,000 EU citizens
who die annually from exposure to tobacco smoke are non-smokers, it has
recommended that lighting up should be banned in all "enclosed" or "indoor"
public places. As these would include a wide range of areas covered by roofs or
surrounded by walls, it's fair to assume that smoking both inside pubs and
within their immediate vicinity outside is being targeted.

Yet the insinuation by the commission's rightwing critics that the Brussels
bureaucracy is replete with meddlesome fitness freaks is wide of the mark. For
most of the EU's five-decade history, responsibility for health policy has been
guarded jealously by its individual governments. More recent experience suggests
that this was a good thing; the commission's formative forays into this domain
show how it is wedded to the same ideology that has fuelled catastrophic
inequalities in the US.

Last year the commission tabled a "patient's rights" law on receiving treatment
in an EU country other than the one where you live. This law ? still being
debated by MEPs ? seeks to have healthcare considered as an , rather than a
social, service. This could set a dangerous precedent whereby access to
high-quality treatment becomes more dependent on your ability to pay for it than
on your need.

Even worse, the union's business agenda has long been dictated by the behemoths
of the pharmaceutical industry. A  that Brussels officials want India to sign in
the near future would require the New Delhi government to introduce stringent
rules on drug patents. India's status as the world's leading provider of cheap
unbranded medicines to victims of Aids and other major killers would be
jeopardised as a result.

Back to smoking, and the sad fact is that EU officials have not been
sufficiently tough in standing up to the tobacco industry representatives that
have been strenuously lobbying against an EU-wide smoking ban. The lobbyists
have resorted to a sophisticated and sometimes duplicitous campaign in trying to
advance their threadbare case that smoking isn't really that harmful. Top-level
officials have been quite literally bought by the tobacco industry. , the former
EU commissioner for health, now works for British American Tobacco, setting up
appointments for the firm with his old colleagues in officialdom. Others have
been charmed into submission; one former commissioner told me he was convinced
that Philip Morris represented the progressive side of the industry. It never
dawned on him that the firm had sunk gargantuan sums into making him believe
just that by, for example,  bearing its name.

No national administration would allow paedophiles a say in setting child
welfare policies. So why should the views of Big Tobacco on issues of health be
taken seriously? And no, I don't think this analogy is too extreme. According to
the , half of the children on this planet have to breathe air polluted by smoke.

This week's move towards creating a "smoke-free environment" across the EU by
2012 is superficially positive, but in reality quite a timid move. The
commission's ban will not be legally binding but will rely on the goodwill of
national governments to put it into effect. It remains to be seen if any action
will be taken against those that don't. So far just 10 of the EU's 27 countries
have introduced comprehensive bans on smoking in the workplace. Some other
countries have claimed to have taken measures to shield their citizens from
smoke, but with so many ludicrous loopholes that the influence of
cigarette-makers over politicians is obvious. In Belgium, I've often had to wade
through a carcinogenic fog to find the non-smoking areas in cafes. This is
because its cowardly government decided against introducing a proper ban.

At the cost of five million lives each year, smoking is the top cause of
preventable death in the world. The industry that seeks to profit from this
misery is beneath contempt ? it's about time our policy-makers started treating
it that way.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Labour candidate faces mission impossible in Norwich by-election;
A seat held since 1997 seems certain to go Tory, says Andy McSmith

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 857 words


ONE OF the biggest draws at this week's Royal Norfolk Show is the human
cannonball. All human life was to be seen at the show yesterday, from scruffy
teenagers with ice cream dripping from their chins to ladies bedecked in finery
that would not look out of place in the Royal Box at Ascot.

At 2pm an ear splitting explosion silenced them all, fireworks threw up green
fireballs, and the human cannonball shot out of his cannon to execute a graceful
arc high up into the sky.

When Chris Ostrowski, Labour candidate in the impending Norwich North
by-election, visits the show this afternoon he may well reflect that there is
only one significant difference between his situation and the human cannonball's
- the human cannonball has a net to soften his landing.

Mr Ostrowski, who is a member of Labour's Christian Socialist movement, will
need the forbearance of a saint in the trials facing him until polling day, on
23 July. What he and his campaign team want is to spend three weeks talking
about everyday issues, particularly the petty crime that is a particular
irritant in Norwich. Instead, he can expect to be forced to talk over and over
again about MPs' expenses, and the resignation of Norwich North's sitting Labour
MP, Ian Gibson, and to be asked - where is Gordon Brown?

David Cameron has already visited Norwich North twice, in support of the
Conservative candidate, Chloe Smith, now the frontrunner in a seat Labour has
held since 1997. Yesterday Mr Brown was challenged to say whether he will visit
Norwich North at all, and tetchily changed the subject.

Of course the Prime Minister is not going to visit an impending disaster. Quite
apart from the convention that prime ministers do not generally take part in
by-elections - which Mr Brown cast aside when he scented victory in Glenrothes
last year - and the general undesirability of being near the scene of a defeat,
there is the extra problem that Ian Gibson's resignation has left only one
Labour MP remaining in Norwich. That is Charles Clarke, the former Home
Secretary, who is behind the plotting to oust Gordon Brown.

Until recently, Labour faced the additional threat that the aggrieved Mr Gibson
might run as an independent. He was popular locally, but was found to have sold
his taxpayer-subsidised second home to his daughter for well below the market
price. It was not the worst misdemeanour to come to light during the MPs'
expenses scandal, but Labour's star chamber thought it serious enough to tell Mr
Gibson that he was barred from standing as a Labour candidate again.

Many people who knew him thought this was unnecessarily harsh and possibly a way
of silencing an outspoken independent MP. The local chairman, Martin Booth,
resigned in disgust.

This is the legacy Mr Ostrowski, a product manager for the John Lewis Group,
must deal with. The first opinion poll gives Labour 30 per cent, five points
behind the Conservatives, but that almost certainly overstates Labour's current
support.

However, one small relief is that when Mr Ostrowski, 28, was a student at the
University of East Anglia, in Norwich, one of his lecturers was Mr Gibson, who
is not now expected to run against him.

In these messy circumstances, it is a safe bet that by the end of this month,
27-year-old Chloe Smith will be the new, Conservative MP for Norwich North. She
lives in the centre of Norwich, just outside the constituency border, grew up in
the town, and went to Swaffham comprehensive school, where she is a school
governor.

Her parents and grandparents also live locally. One of her grandmothers still
works, commissioning and marketing postcards. Her father was a furniture maker,
her mother was a state schoolteacher, and one grandfather was a vicar. She
dead-batted other questions about her personal circumstances with the comment:
"You can write up that particular part of the report as 'single'." She is
indisputably a Tory in the Cameron mould - young, clever, confident, and in a
well-paid job with one of the country's biggest consultancies. She even copies
Cameron's hand gestures, consciously or not. Just like a modern Conservative,
she speaks articulately, in a pleasant tone, and says absolutely nothing
controversial. She was adopted as a prospective candidate 18 months ago, with no
inkling then that she would have to fight a by-election. "It was good luck that
we had a candidate in place who does not look like she has a duck lake or a
moat," one of her supporters remarked.

An interesting side show at the campaign is how well the Green candidate, Rupert
Read, will do. The Greens are unusually strong in Norwich, with seven out of 13
of the city's seats on Norfolk County Council. They are the second biggest party
on Norwich council, with 13 seats out of 39, to Labour's 20.

Mr Read lectures in philosophy at East Anglia University, and if he were
elected, he would not only be the nation's first Green MP, but arguably the
greatest authority on Ludwig Wittgenstein ever to hold a Commons seat.

That would be deep and meaningful, but at present it is unlikely.

Norwich North

The result in 2005

Labour 44.8%

Conservative 33.2%

Liberal Democrat 16.2%

Green 2.7%

Ukip 2.4%

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 82 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday

Feature - We can't rely on others to beat the BNP;
Denis Fernando warns that the far-right advance demands a swift tactical rethink
by anti-fascists

BYLINE: Denis Fernando

LENGTH: 768 words


In June, the British National Party won the first ever seats for a fascist party
at a British national election.

Those who have tried to downplay the significance of its breakthrough in getting
MEPs elected in the North West and Yorkshire regions do a disservice to everyone
threatened by the rise of the extreme right.

It was wrong to promote complacency about BNP prospects before those elections
and it is even more dangerous to underestimate the significance of these
results.

In fact, the BNP has been steadily building electoral support over recent years,
first gaining seats on local councils, then a seat last year on the London
Assembly and now its first ever seats in a national election. That reality has
to be faced up to and understood if the trend is to be reversed.

As we have already seen on television, radio and in the press, these results
have enormously magnified the ability of the fascists to preach their doctrine
of hate.

There will be more racist attacks, more homophobic violence and more attacks on
Muslims as a result. This has been borne out by the recent hate crime
statistics, which show that racist attacks have increased up to 27-fold in areas
with an increased BNP presence.

Not only that, but MEPs receive massive financial resources which will now be
used by the BNP to target key seats in the next parliamentary and local
elections. And mainstream parties will bend to BNP politics in the mistaken
belief that this will stop its growth when it will only legitimise its ideology
of division and hate.

The anti-fascist movement must review its strategy to deal with the increased
fascist threat. There have been many debates in recent years and reality has now
put them to the test.

First, we must understand what fascism is. It stands for the destruction of the
trade unions, the left, democratic freedoms and rabid racism and homophobia,
posing a mortal threat to those it targets.

At any particular time its targets are selected to take advantage of the
prejudices that exist in society and are promoted by the media and mainstream
parties. In the 1930s, for example, a cutting edge of the nazis was
anti-semitism.

Today's fascists are as anti-semitic as ever, but the main prejudices they feed
upon and promote are racism and Islamophobia. Any strategy which does not
confront racism and Islamophobia head on will fail to defeat the fascists.

Equally, anyone who thinks you can have an anti-fascist movement in Britain
today without black, Asian and Muslim communities playing a central role
alongside trade unions, the left and the lesbian and gay communities is simply
splitting the forces that need to unite to defeat the fascists.

A united strategy which brings together all these social forces and challenges
the racist myths which are the cutting edge of the BNP is the key to success. It
successfully stopped the BNP in Oldham when it was on course to make a
breakthrough in 2001 and removed it from Tower Hamlets council in 1994.

The anti-fascist movement's strategy must be based on what works, not wasting
hundreds of thousands of pounds of trade union funds on a strategy that divides
and weakens the anti-fascist majority.

The BNP vote was based on real racist hatred, as shown in a Yougov poll for
Channel 4 on the European elections. The results indicated that a third of BNP
voters thought there was a difference in intelligence between black and white
people, compared to 14 per cent of general voters. Ninety-four per cent thought
that all further immigration should be halted. Forty-four peer cent disagreed
with gay and lesbian couples having civil partnerships equal to marriage.
Seventy-nine per cent thought Islam was a serious danger to western
civilisation.

The BNP courted these voters in the run-up to the election, stating that black
and Asian people in this country should be classified as "racial foreigners" to
be "repatriated" - something which would only be possible through violence and
destroying democracy.

Its website also targeted three MPs on a list of "liars, buggers and thieves,"
including Chris Bryant and Ron Davies, as part of a list of criminals that was
designed to whip up homophobia. Even with the option of voting UKIP, the BNP
used the fears and prejudices fanned by the economic crisis to consolidate a
racist vote.

The anti-fascist majority has received a wake-up call. We don't need puffed-up
claims of BNP crisis. We need an accurate assessment of what the BNP is and an
effective strategy to unite the core forces who can lead the majority to defeat
them.

- Denis Fernando is a spokesman for the Lesbian and Gay Coalition Against
Racism.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 2, 2009 Thursday 2:50 PM GMT

Why would anyone want to vote Tory? (pt II)

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 543 words


Tonight is the night of the Spectator's Summer Party and since I am likely to
bump into lots of old university friends who now happen to be either members of
the Tory shadow cabinet or the future Prime Minister, I'd just like to clarify
why it is that I devote so much blog space to slagging them and their party off.

"Why don't you have a go at Labour?" I can imagine some of them saying. "They're
the ones doing the damage, after all."

To which my reply would be: "Only till next Summer at the latest, after which
the ball's in your court. The key question is: 'Are you just going to spend your
five years in office treading water, papering cracks? Or are you going to spend
ten, or perhaps fifteen, years in power actually making a real difference?"

I honestly doubt there are many readers of this blog who don't want the Tories
to win the next election and David Cameron to be our next Prime Minister. But I
know there are lots who feel as I do that there's absolutely no point in their
winning if they're just going to behave like a bunch of Tinos. (Not like proper
Conservatives, in other words, but like Tories In Name Only)

"Look never mind the detail. Let's get Labour out first, then see what the
Tories can do," you'll hear many natural Tories arguing.

To which I say: "No. No and thrice No. Don't you see, you poor naive fools, that
by then it will be too late?"

It will be too late for two reasons. Firstly, because if the Tories carry on as
they are, they won't have a decent working majority. The reason for this, as we
saw in the Euro elections, is that the vote for the three main parties is
atomising. No longer does it make sense, as it might have done five years ago,
for the Tories to be praising Polly Toynbee and chasing huskies across melting
ice shelves in order to capture those all-important soft-liberal-left swing
votes in the key marginals. All this does now is to further irritate and
alienate all those natural Tory supporters who have been driven into the arms of
UKIP or, worse, the BNP. The Tories now have far many more votes to lose than
they do to gain by this "let's make everyone like us by abandoning every core
principle we used to stand for" routine.

The second reason it won't work is because if the Tories' strategists are led to
believe that natural Conservatives are willing to swallow their pride and vote
for them regardless, then what will be the incentive for them to buck up their
ideas and start working on some sound policies?

Britain is in an unspeakable mess. Our economy lies in ruins. The NHS is a
bloated monster with a gaping, insatiable maw. Immigration is out of control.
Social cohesion has broken down thanks to decades of state-enforced
multiculturalism. Our armed forces have been utterly humiliated in southern
Iraq. 85 per cent of all our new laws are decided by Brussels-based socialists,
gold-plated and rubber-stamped by British bureaucrats, and then rigidly enforced
by elf-n-safety-obsessed jobsworths. Our education system has been dumbed down
to the point of ruination. Our economic efficiency is circumscribed by
burdensome regulation. I could go on, as no doubt you could too, but all I want
to ask at this point is....

WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU USELESS RUDDY TORIES PLANNING ON DOING ABOUT IT?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 82 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday

EU treaty faces delay as German court blocks ratification

BYLINE: Martin Banks in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 465  words


GERMANY'S highest court set a new obstacle for the European Union's Lisbon
Treaty yesterday when it ordered a new law to be passed before  the
controversial document can be ratified.

In a ruling that could delay the treaty for several months, judges said it was
broadly compatible with German law but refused to grant it approval for
immediate ratification.

A new law was required to guarantee the rights of the German parliament in the
EU's decision-making process, said the federal constitutional court, because MPs
had "not been accorded sufficient rights of participation in European law-making
procedures and treaty amendment procedures''.

The case was brought to court by 50 German MPs who argued that approval of the
treaty would erode democracy and breach German law.

The ruling presented Sweden, which takes over the EU presidency today, with a
fresh challenge. It must already oversee a second referendum on the treaty
expected in Ireland in the autumn, while the presidents of the Czech Republic
and Poland have yet to formally endorse it.

Yesterday's ruling may buy more time for opponents of the treaty, potentially
undermining efforts to introduce it by Jan 1.

The judgment echoes a fierce debate in Britain between those who describe
proposed EU constitutional change as a "tidying up exercise'' and the treaty's
opponents, who see the text as part of a federalist agenda that threatens
national sovereignty.

The German parliament is expected to vote on the legislation demanded by the
court, including a guarantee that its parliament will have to vote on any
changes to the treaty or any expansion of EU competences, before the country's
general election on Sept 27.

Lorraine Mullally, the director of Open Europe, a British-based think tank,
said: "Nobody realistically expected the court to rule against Lisbon, but it is
hugely significant that judges have delayed ratification until the German
parliament is given greater powers to influence EU law-making.

"The judges have ruled that the transfer of powers to the EU level leaves a gap
between citizens and the EU.''

A poll by Open Europe found that 77 per cent of Germans wanted a referendum on
the treaty.

Currently, 23 of the 27 EU member states have ratified the treaty, which would
give the EU a full-time president and foreign minister and create a diplomatic
service.

Although José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said he
was "confident'' that yesterday's ruling would "clear the way for a swift
conclusion'' for German ratification it could delay the process for months.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The judgment will
not be greeted with joy in Germany. Just as in every other country, bar one, its
people have not been given the chance to express an opinion.''

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
