
                               1 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday

QUESTIONS OVER £75K CAMERON MORTGAGE PAY-OFF

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 1564 words


TORY LEADER TOOK OUT MAXIMUM TAXPAYER-FUNDED MORTGAGE-THEN PAID OFF OWN LOAN
FOUR MONTHS LATER

DAVID Cameron was dragged personally into the expenses row last night after it
was revealed that he paid off a loan on his London home shortly after taking out
a £350,000 taxpayer-funded mortgage on his constituency house.

The disclosure followed a powerful call by the Tory leader yesterday for the
OEfull force of the law¹ to be deployed against MPs who have abused allowances.

Following a Mail on Sunday investigation Mr Cameron could now face searching
questions about his own expense claims.

He took out the £350,000 mortgage - close to the maximum amount that can be
claimed for - to buy a large house in Oxfordshire in August 2001, two months
after winning his Witney seat in the General Election. By nominating it as his
second home, he was able to claim for the mortgage interest payments under the
now-infamous Commons¹ Additional Costs Allowance (ACA).

Just four months after securing the £350,000 mortgage, Mr Cameron paid off the
£75,000 loan on his London home, taken out only six years earlier.

There is no suggestion that he broke any rules. But mortgage experts say that if
he had kept the loan on his London home and borrowed £75,000 less on the
Oxfordshire property, taxpayers could have been saved more than £22,000 between
2002 and 2007.

The revelations came as Gordon Brown was warned that he faces a new threat to
his leadership if Labour is beaten by the UK Independence Party in Thursday¹s
European elections.

And in today¹s Mail on Sunday, Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable
calls for OEimmoral¹ Chancellor Alistair Darling to resign for OEbeing caught
with his fingers in the till¹ by abusing his expenses.

Last night, Mr Cameron insisted that his mortgage claims had been OEperfectly
reasonable¹ and denied that reducing his Oxfordshire loan would have helped the
taxpayer.

A statement said: OEDavid Cameron paid off his London mortgage with his own
money which came from the sale of shares and money built up while working at
Carlton TV. He bought a home in his constituency and claimed for mortgage
interest payments, which is perfectly reasonable and the intended use of the
second-home allowance. He later paid down a part of this mortgage and claimed
for some basic utility bills.

OEHe made it very clear several weeks ago that he would not claim for a second
home if he became Prime Minister and lived in No10.

OEWe are pleased that Gordon Brown and other members of the Cabinet have now
adopted this policy and will no longer be able to claim for their second homes
while living in grace-and-favour apartments.¹

A later statement said: OEIf he had paid £75,000 toward Oxfordshire it would not
have been cheaper for the taxpayer, as that mortgage is far higher than the
amount he was able to claim for - particularly in 2001, when the amount you were
able to claim for was much lower.¹

Ten days ago, at a meeting with his Witney constituents to answer their
questions on expenses, Mr Cameron candidly admitted claiming OEclose to the
maximum¹. But he failed to mention that he had paid off his London loan shortly
after he had secured it.

OEFrom 2001 to 2007, the only thing I really claimed for in respect of my second
home was the interest on a mortgage - not the repayments, but the interest,¹ he
told the meeting. OEIt was a very large mortgage. It was £350,000 worth of
mortgage. It was about £1,700 a month that I was claiming. That was quite close
to the maximum you could claim at the time but I did not at that stage claim for
anything else.

OEIn 2007, I was able to pay down the mortgage a little bit [by £100,000], so it
was a £250,000 mortgage, paying about £1,000 in mortgage interest every month,
and so I also claimed for what I would call some pretty straightforward
household bills - council tax, oil, gas and other utility type bills and
insurance on the property.

OEI now claim less than the maximum. I don¹t claim all of those utility bills. I
claim a percentage of them, because I think that¹s right and fair.¹

Today¹s disclosures may spark fresh criticism among some Conservatives about Mr
Cameron¹s forceful handling of the expenses row. They believe he is using the
scandal as an excuse to clear out traditionalists who stand in the way of his
modernising project, while largely protecting members of his inner circle.

Until now, Mr Cameron has made only one concession on his expenses - admitting
that he was wrong to claim £680 to have wisteria removed from the chimney of his
Oxfordshire home. He has repaid the money.

Now The Mail on Sunday can provide a more detailed account of his property
dealings and how they relate to his expenses.

According to Land Registry documents, in 1995 Mr Cameron paid £215,000 for a
house in Kensington, West London, which was part-funded with a £75,000 mortgage
from Alliance & Leicester.

In August 2001, just a month after the second home allowance went up by a
staggering £5,840 per annum - from £13,628 to £19,468 - and two months after he
entered the Commons, he paid £650,000 for the constituency house in Chipping
Norton, Oxfordshire, and used the property as security for a £350,000 loan from
HSBC.

Although the Land Registry records show that Mr Cameron took ownership of the
Oxfordshire property on August 10, 2001, his spokesman claimed last night that
he had completed on the property in May 2001. It is not clear how he financed
the purchase between May and August.

However, it is established that in December 2001, the Land Registry removed the
Alliance & Leicester charge from its records for the Kensington home after the
loan was OEdischarged by electronic means¹.

Mr Cameron sold the Kensington property in 2005 for £1,150,000 - a profit of
£935,000 - and bought another house nearby. His Oxfordshire home is estimated to
be worth just under £1million, a paper profit of more than £300,000.

His mortgage claim is potentially contentious because, coincidentally or not,
experts say that it corresponds approximately to the upper limit of the ACA,
which covers the costs of running an MP¹s second home. In the financial year
2002-03, the first full year Mr Cameron claimed under the ACA, he received the
maximum £19,722.

In 2003-04, he claimed £20,328, just £5 less than the maximum, and in 2004-05 he
took the maximum of £20,902.

In total, between 2002 and 2007 he claimed £102,874. If he had paid off £75,000
of the Oxfordshire loan, rather than clearing the mortgage on his London home,
the bill would have been around £22,500 lower.

In an interview yesterday, Mr Cameron said: OEWhen I was first elected, I was
renting rather than owning a home and I couldn¹t find my rent bill. The fees
office said, ³Don¹t worry, just claim for food.² I said, ³I haven¹t had any
food,² and I went and found my rent bill.¹

In the interview, Mr Cameron maintained his hardline stance by calling for any
MPs who have used taxpayers¹ money to pay for OEphantom¹ mortgages to be
investigated by the police.

He said he was outraged by Sir Peter Viggers, who claimed for a floating duck
house, Douglas Hogg, who claimed for his moat to be cleared, and Anthony Steen,
who recouped the cost of tree surgery and guarding his shrubs against rabbits.

All three - regarded by modernising Tories as anti-reform OEbed-blockers¹ - have
announced that they will stand down at the next Election.

Only one Cameron ally, his adviser Andrew MacKay, has been forced to leave the
Commons following revelations that he and his MP wife Julie Kirkbride had
claimed more than £250,000 in second-home allowances by OEdouble dipping¹.

On Friday, Mr Cameron said that Bill Cash, a veteran Eurosceptic regarded as a
troublemaker by the party leadership, had OEserious questions¹ to answer about
claiming for rent payments to his daughter.

One Tory MP last night attacked Mr Cameron¹s alleged OEdouble standards¹
crackdown on some MPs and soft handling of others. OEIt¹s like living through
one of Stalin¹s purges,¹ said the MP. OEIt¹s all deeply divisive. Some people
are being asked simply to apologise while others are being told they have
questions to answer. That¹s code for: let¹s get all the lunatics in a local
constituency to stage a public execution.

OEAlthough MPs have simply been obeying the rules as they were, Cameron is
saying that¹s not enough. He seems to want to make burnt offerings of other MPs.
Fine, but on that basis, why doesn¹t he repay years of mortgage interest claims
above £1,250 a month that he¹s claimed for?¹

In his defence, it could be argued that what Mr Cameron has done with Commons
expenses pales into insignificance next to Tony Blair. He used the ACA to help
pay for a £296,000 mortgage on a house that he had bought for £30,000 in 1983.
He claimed just under a third of the interest back from the taxpayer.

He remortgaged the constituency home in Trimdon, County Durham, in 2003 -
shortly before he paid £3.65 million for a London townhouse which became his
post-Downing Street home.

Gordon Brown has also been at the centre of controversy after claiming for
payments of £6,577 to his brother Andrew over a 26-month period for a cleaner
shared by the pair.

Moreover, Mr Cameron has said that if he enters Downing Street, and has use of
the official country residence of Chequers, he will give up his second-home
allowance completely, a ban that would extend to other Ministers who are
entitled to use grace-and-favour apartments.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday

MOVE TO TOPPLE BROWN IF UKIP BEAT LABOUR

BYLINE: BY MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

LENGTH: 288 words


REBEL Labour MPs are poised to mount a fresh bid to topple Gordon Brown if
Labour suffers the humiliation of being beaten by political minnows UKIP in
Thursday!s Euro elections.

The new threat to the Prime Minister came after a survey showed Labour trailing
in third place in the Euro poll with a dismal 16 per cent.

This put it three points behind the anti-EU Party UKIP on 19, while the Tories
were on 30. Labour MPs said privately that if the election result were to mirror
the opinion poll figures, it is certain to trigger moves to replace Mr Brown
with a new leader, probably Health Secretary Alan Johnson.

OELosing to UKIP would be too much to bear,! said one Labour MP. OEWe would be
left with no choice but to take a punt on a new leader.

OEWe can!t just sleepwalk to disaster under Gordon and pretend it is not
happening. If we carry on like this, Labour could be wiped out for good at the
General Election.!

A former Minister said: OEThe poll could be a freak. But if it isn!t, Gordon is
in serious difficulties. Being less popular than Michael Foot is no way to enter
the last 12 months before an Election.!

In a further sign of the panic at No10, Labour allies of Mr Brown spent much of
last week phoning backbenchers to find out if a coup against the Prime Minister
was planned.

If the Euro and local election results are as bad for Labour as many Ministers
privately fear, Mr Brown will have his work cut out to avoid his third major
leadership crisis in less than two years after succeeding Tony Blair.

The first came after a last-minute decision not to call a snap Election in
October 2007, and the second came after his popularity continued to plummet
before it recovered when he led moves to combat the recession last autumn.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday

6100K CHALLENGE TO CAMERON

BYLINE: BY MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

LENGTH: 153 words


TYCOON Stuart Wheeler has challenged David Cameron to accept a 6100,000 bet that
the Conservative leader will never deliver his pledge to hold a referendum on
the EU!s future.

Mr Wheeler, the spread-betting entrepreneur who once gave the Tories 6500,000,
recently quit the party to back UKIP in this week!s European elections.

A promise to hold a referendum on the EU!s Lisbon Treaty, which gives more power
to Brussels and seeks to establish the organisation!s first fully-fledged
president, has been the focal point of the Tories! Euro campaign.

But Mr Cameron has stopped short of committing himself to doing so if the treaty
has already been approved by Gordon Brown.

Millionaire Wheeler said: OEDavid Cameron is deceiving the British public over
his EU referendum pledge. I am prepared to bet him or anyone else 6100,000 that
if the EU constitution has already become law by the time he comes to power he
will not deliver.!

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday

NO QUESTIONS, NO RECEIPTS, TAKE YOUR CASH, PLEASE, COURTESY OF THE EU ...

BYLINE: BY DANIEL HANNAN

LENGTH: 1211 words


You may be shocked by the revelations about MPs! expenses ... but they are
nothing compared to the perks enjoyed by Members of the European Parliament.
Here, Daniel Hannan, the British MEP whose speech attacking Gordon Brown became
an international hit on YouTube, describes how appalled he is at the way cash is
thrust into the hands of European politicians.

Viewed from Brussels, the Westminster expenses crisis looks Lilliputian. Call
that a scandal? Bath plugs and massage chairs, patio heaters and lightbulbs? How
paltry. How quaint. How very British. Last week, I tried to explain to a French
MEP why there was so much anger in Britain about MPs! extravagant claims, but he
simply couldn!t grasp the argument. OEBien. So the money is to furnish a house,
and your MPs spend it on furniture. Et alors?!

You can see his point. Across much of the Continent, OEscandal! means briefcases
full of banknotes, mafia links and, preferably, an assassination or two. The
idea of resigning over a gardening bill strikes most Euro-MPs as downright
Pooterish. If you think I!m exaggerating, let me take you back to my first day
as an MEP ten years ago. I!d located my office (complete with shower and bed),
identified where the debating chamber was (it is used just 12 days a year) and
found my way to the travel bureau. I duly presented my ticket and a brick of
notes was pressed into my hand.

OEHang on, you!ve made a mistake,! I said. OEI!ve only come from London.!

OENo, monsieur, no mistake,! said the pretty official. OEThat is the standard
rate of kilometrage.!

I stared at her stupidly. OEBut it can!t be. I mean, no one can spend that much
travelling from London to Brussels.!

OEThat!s right, monsieur, it!s the maximum theoretical fare, plus an additional
sum. It doesn!t depend on how you make the journey.!

OEWhat, you mean I could fly Ryanair and I!d get the same amount?!

She smiled brightly: OEMais oui.!

In Brussels, expenses are not reimbursed on the basis of receipts. They are
dished out as lump sum allowances, no questions asked. Someone who took the
cheapest flight and banked the difference could easily make 6800 every week-
tax-free, of course, since it counts as expenses rather than income.

Indeed, you have no option but to claim the full amount: the computer is
configured so that it won!t pay at cost price. When I asked for such a facility,
I was told that it would put other MEPs under intolerable pressure.

What, then, is the correct thing to do? Nick Clegg, who was an MEP for six years
before coming to Westminster, is now under fire for using his excess to fund his
office. But the poor fellow was only trying to do the right thing: that is, not
to trouser the money himself.

Cleggie!s story shows us how the Brussels system can be literally corrupting: it
can make essentially good people act furtively. And once MEPs get into the habit
of behaving defensively with regard to their own finances, they become readier
to overlook the really monstrous scams: the regional aid boondoggles, the
fraudulent agricultural subsidies, the kickbacks in the overseas development
budget. They won!t lob rocks when their own houses are wrought of the flimsiest
crystal.

The reason MPs are being herded into tumbrils is that there was an audit trail:
every payment was made on the basis of an invoice. MEPs need fear no such
retrospective exposure: their own office allowances (around 63,500 a month) are,
like everything else, handed over unconditionally. Every attempt to introduce
receipts has been voted down.

Still, let me give credit where it is due. The European Parliament has made some
reforms. The travel scam, for example, is at last coming to an end. When we
reassemble next month, reimbursement will be on the basis of costs actually
incurred.

Not that everyone was happy about it. I treasure the memory of a hefty German
Christian Democrat, enraged because I had named him in a German newspaper as an
opponent of reform, hammering at my door, shouting: OEAch! Hannan! Come out!
This time too far you have gone!!

On the day of the relevant vote, a British MEP swerved over to me at a
reception, drunk, dripping and dribbling, shouting: OEHannan, you!re a ****, a
****, a, er, a ****.! (No one said you had to be Cicero to be an MEP).

Since the new system was approved, several MEPs have complained that it won!t
save taxpayers a penny: they will now all travel business class, so the extra
money will simply go to the airlines. Well, maybe: but they will be better
legislators in consequence, because their willingness to criticise the system
won!t be compromised.

At the same time, the European Parliament is about to ban the employment of
immediate family. Many MEPs keep their wives on the payroll, including around
half the British. OEWhat is it about you English?! a French colleague once asked
me. OEYou employ your wives and you sleep with your staff!! Yes, but at least
the Brits declare the fact: most MEPs refuse to disclose any information about
whom they employ.

It!s the same story with the office expenses. Although, as I say, there is
absolutely no reason to match them to expenditure, most British MEPs voluntarily
declare their accounts.

The Conservatives and the Greens publish their expenses online, as do most
LibDems. Labour and UKIP have pledged to follow suit.

Why did MEPs vote for reform? Partly because of public pressure in their home
constituencies, stirred up by irritating ticks like me touring the Continent and
telling audiences, in their own languages where I could, how the system worked.
Partly because there was a delay built in, and many MEPs knew that they would
stand down before the new rules came into force. Partly because, even in the
European Parliament, there are people of conscience. Oh, and partly because the
deal was sweetened with a pay rise.

MEPs benefit from a double standard because they are expected to be shysters.
When Derek Conway was found to be paying family members improperly, the Press
shoaled piranha-like around him for weeks. But dozens of MEPs have been doing
the same thing unremarked.

When two Labour peers were recorded offering to move amendments in return for
cash it was, quite rightly, a monstrous scandal.

When a British MEP actually took money from a company that had a direct interest
in legislation she was steering through, it went unreported.

Brussels sleaze simply isn!t a story. We take it for granted. It!s not news.
Like my French MEP friend, we give a Gallic shrug. Et alors? And, in a strange
way, I find our dismissiveness heartening. A friend who used to work as a
marriage guidance counsellor once told me that a relationship can survive any
number of rows. As long as you!re bickering, it means that you care enough to
want to change your spouse!s mind. But when the anger gives way to disdain, the
arguments to scorn, the relationship is over.

Britain!s relationship with the EU is like a doomed marriage. We rage and storm
about Westminster peccadilloes because, deep down, we want to look up to our
MPs.

But, when it comes to Brussels, we gave up long ago. We no longer expect
integrity and, frankly, we no longer care. It will only be a matter of time
before we initiate divorce proceedings.

lDaniel Hannan is a Conservative MEP for South-East England. He writes a blog at
www.hannan.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  May 31, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BNP VOTE IS A RIGHT TURN-OFF;
Parties in poll alert

BYLINE: by DOMINIK LEMANSKI

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 303 words


MPS battling public fury over expenses claims last night warned angry voters:
"If you think we're bad, imagine five years of the BNP."

With just days to go before millions of Brits head to the polls for Euro and
council elections, mainstream parties united in their condemnation of the
far-right group.

Its leader Nick Griffin is confident his party can gain its first-ever Euro seat
on Thursday as the main parties struggle to cope with the backlash from the
ongoing Westminster expenses scandal.

But last night the Tory's national chairman Eric Pickles - heckled on BBC1's
Question Time for defending the MPs "second homes" allowance - warned:

"Voters have to think very carefully before they vote for extremist parties such
as the BNP.

"Because you have to remember you will be stuck with them for five years."

He added: "The BNP have convictions ranging from assault to domestic violence.

"I really don't think people would be attracted to voting for them.

Voters have to think about what message this sends out about their country if
they vote the BNP in to represent us."

Labour's leader in Europe Glenis Willmott also condemned the BNP for their
divisive policies.

She said: "Our main opposition are the Tories but I am concerned about the
extremist parties such as the BNP and UKIP.

"If the BNP managed to get an MEP in Brussels they would push Britain on to the
fringes of the debate on the economy and many other issues.

"They are a real threat. You don't want that happening.

"In Britain we have a multicultural society with cities such as Leicester, where
people of all backgrounds get along with no problems."

She also warned that the BNP would use any MEP seat it captured to link up with
other far-right groups in Europe.

A recent poll suggested that the BNP had an 8% approval rating among voters in
the North of England.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNINGS: Eric Pickles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 31, 2009
                                 First Edition

Policy counts, not pique;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 768 words


This is utterly ridiculous, we know. But bear with us. Let us pretend, for a
moment, that the European Parliament elections on Thursday are about the future
of Europe. Let us put aside wanting to "send a message" to Gordon Brown or to
Westminster politicians generally. Put aside moats and Tudor beams, floating
duck houses and flipping second homes. Put aside, even, domestic politics - put
aside Labour's proposal to bring in a 50p tax rate for high earners or the
Conservative plan to cut inheritance tax for millionaires.

The Prime Minister invited us last week to cast a vote for Strasbourg on the
basis of his handling of the global financial crisis and £60 for British
pensioners. David Cameron used his first election broadcast to advertise his
assertiveness with his own MPs and their expenses. Even Nick Clegg, the
self-avowedly most pro-European leader, used the Liberal Democrat broadcast to
say, "I wanted to say something that hasn't been said before," before going on
to say roughly the same things that Mr Cameron said.

Ignore them. Read the party manifestos instead. Inform yourself about the powers
of the European Parliament. And then decide.

The opinion polls suggest that many people intend to punish the Westminster
parties by voting for parties that are not represented in the House of Commons.
In one survey last week, the UK Independence Party even overtook Labour. This
is, to put it politely, a paradox. Members of the European Parliament are hardly
ascetics when it comes to the perks of public life. And some of UKIP's
representatives have been exceptional in their generosity towards themselves.

That said, there is a democratic case for UKIP, in that it stands for a policy
of Britain's withdrawal from the EU, which, however much this newspaper
disagrees with it, is widely held. If people vote UKIP, though, it should be
because they want Britain to have the same status as Norway or Switzerland,
dominated by the rules of the EU but without a say in their making, and not
because they are angry about MPs' expenses.

Furthermore, a vote for UKIP is preferable to one for the British National
Party, a party that has racism written into its constitution. The fact that the
BNP might win a seat is not, however, an argument against proportional
representation - a suddenly fashionable topic of political debate. PR is not the
answer to the abuse of expenses, as Lord Adonis observes on page 26, with all
the authority of his mentor, Roy Jenkins, who reported on the issue a decade
ago. But PR does allow a wider range of democratic expression, although this
week's particular system of closed lists, in which voters are unable to express
a preference between candidates of the same party, is far from ideal.

One other party that might benefit from a desire for a new politics, and which
would deserve to do so, is the Green Party. Under Caroline Lucas, its new leader
(new in the sense that the party now has a leader, which it refused to have
before), it has moved away from its fundamentalist anti-EU past - it used to
regard the EU as an anti-green capitalist conspiracy - and now favours positive
engagement.

The party that does not deserve to benefit from the voters taking the elections
seriously, however, is the Conservative Party. David Cameron ought still to be
paying the price for the Faustian pact that he made with the Tory Eurosceptics
in order to secure the leadership three and a half years ago. He promised then
to pull the party out of the main centre-right grouping in the European
Parliament. Now, finally, after Thursday's elections, he is actually going to do
it. When challenged about who the Tories' new partners will be, he names the
Czech Civic Democrats. They are the most respectable of the mere handful of
possible partners. But who else is there? Yesterday, Mr Cameron met the leaders
of the Polish Law and Justice party that is hostile to equal rights for gay
people. This is not grown-up politics.

Whatever else might be said about the two main pro-European parties, Labour and
the Liberal Democrats, their engagement with the Strasbourg Parliament is the
mature politics of co-operation and compromise. They offer a meaningful choice
of degrees of enthusiasm, with the Liberal Democrats having long been the most
pro-European of the main parties.

The Independent on Sunday is never so crude as to advise its readers how to
vote. But on this occasion we urge our readers (a) to vote, and (b) to make
their decision not on the basis of Westminster MPs' expenses but what they think
is right for the future of Britain's relationship with the rest of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 31, 2009
                                 First Edition

Labour set to suffer a total meltdown in council elections;
Fresh allegations about Chancellor's expenses expected as Vince Cable calls for
him to resign

BYLINE: Jane Merrick POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words


Labour faces being virtually wiped off the map in the county council elections
this week, marking one of the lowest points in the party's history. Last night a
poll of voting intentions at the next general election put Labour in third
place.

In the ICM poll for the Sunday Telegraph, just 22 per cent said they intended to
vote Labour, against 25 per cent for the Lib Dems and 40 for the Conservatives.

Senior Tory sources claimed last night that they are confident Labour's last
remaining shire councils will fall to the Conservatives or to no overall control
in polling day on Thursday.

Cabinet ministers also privately warned that the 4 June poll will be one of the
worst in memory for Labour, going beyond the usual lowering of expectations by
the governing party. It would leave Labour with no control of England's county
council seats.

The claim by Tory officials that they could unseat Labour's grip in northern
counties of Lancashire and Staffordshire, and leave Derbyshire and
Nottinghamshire with no overall control, confirms the worst fears of ministers.
It followed a poll in The Times yesterday suggesting Labour will come third in
the European elections after the Tories and Ukip.

Meanwhile, last night's fresh expenses allegations were spread evenly between
the two main parties. Former Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy claimed for
three tins of mints and two teddy bears from the House of Commons shop; Labour
MP Frank Cook, Stockton-on-Tees, claimed a £5 donation at a church service
commemorating the Battle of Britain; Shadow Scottish secretary David Mundell
spent £3,000 on equipment for publicity pictures; Roger Godsiff, Labour MP for
Birmingham Small Heath and Sparkbrook, claimed a bath mat, gardening equipment
and more than £7,000 of repairs on office expenses; Tim Yeo, Tory MP for South
Suffolk, claimed £900 for a pink laptop "in the weeks leading up to Christmas";
and Tory Bob Walter, MP for North Dorset, claimed more than £1,000 for handmade
carpets.

And Conservative leader David Cameron faces questions of his own. The Mail on
Sunday claimed he repaid a £75,000 loan on his London home - taken out six years
before - shortly after taking out a £350,000 mortgage on a house in his
Oxfordshire constituency, at public expense.

The election disaster that could be looming for the Prime Minister on Thursday
makes it all the more likely that he will have to carry out a radical reshuffle
of his Cabinet to try to reassert control. Alan Johnson, who is being urged by
allies to prepare himself for an emergency Labour leadership if Mr Brown is
toppled, could be promoted to Home Secretary in an effort to appease supporters,
replacing Jacqui Smith who is already on the casualty list over her expenses.

Hazel Blears, Secretary of State for the Communities, is likely to pay the price
for her highly critical article last month in which she ridiculed Mr Brown,
although the Prime Minister has been warned by some ministers that, if sacked,
she could "go nuclear" and call on him to go.

Further pressure on Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, is expected this week over
his expenses claims. Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable called for
Mr Darling to be sacked for "flipping" his second home and having tax advice
paid for by public funds. In an article for The Mail on Sunday, Mr Cable wrote:
"Here is the company finance director caught with his fingers in the till. He
doesn't explain. He doesn't apologise. He just blames his colleagues for not
stopping him. His moral authority has vanished. He must go, now." Tipped to
replace Mr Darling is Ed Balls, the Prime Minister's closest aide, who is
currently Secretary of State for Schools.

Mr Cable dismissed reports that he could be in line for a job in the Cabinet
under Mr Brown as a blatant strategy by Downing Street to try to stabilise the
Prime Minister. He added: "I would not agree to be co-opted into a Labour
government in its dying days."

In a separate development, MPs who have abused their expenses could be recalled
by constituents. The measure looked more likely after David Cameron said he
supported the move, which is already backed by the Lib Dems and under
consideration by Labour. In an interview with Sky News to be broadcast today, Mr
Cameron said he supports giving voters the power to recall their MPs.

But elsewhere there were warnings that other suggestions for reform, including
proportional representation, were the wrong response to the expenses scandal. In
an interview with the IoS, Lord Adonis, one of the leading proponents of PR,
said it was not the answer. He said: "You don't deal with flu by taking malaria
tablets."

MPS' FREEBIES PAGES 8-9

EURO ELECTIONS PAGES 16-17

INTERVIEW PAGES 26-27

COMMENT PAGES 39, 41 & 45

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 31, 2009
                                 First Edition

Is Cameron leading his MEPs astray?;
Special report The European elections Ties to far-right parties cloud prospects
A senior MEP has spoken out against the Tory leader's decision to pull his party
out of the main conservative grouping in Strasbourg and says he will 'bitterly
regret' it. Jane Merrick, James Ball and Emily Dugan report

BYLINE: Jane Merrick, James Ball and Emily Dugan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1665 words


David Cameron faced embarrassment over his hardline European policy yesterday as
one of his MEPs gave a warning that his stand was heading for "disaster".

Just days before the local and European elections, when all the major parties
expect a battering over the expenses scandal, the Tory leader was criticised for
his plan to leave the mainstream grouping in the European Parliament and join
forces with a party which is anti-gay rights.

Caroline Jackson, the Europhile MEP for South West England who is standing down
at the election, said Mr Cameron would "bitterly regret" the decision to
withdraw from the European People's Party (EPP), whose members include Angela
Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy.

At the same time, a string of senior Tory figures have given a warning that the
move risks damaging Britain's influence in the EU if the Conservatives win
power.

Last month, The Independent on Sunday revealed that senior Foreign Office
officials are also alarmed at the likelihood of a Cameron government leaving the
UK isolated in Europe.

Mr Cameron has also said his government could hold a referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty even if it has been ratified by every EU nation.

The criticism was all the more embarrassing for Mr Cameron, shifting the heat of
controversy on to his party at a time when Labour and a weakened Gordon Brown
government have been bearing the brunt of public anger over the expenses
scandal.

Mr Cameron was in Warsaw yesterday to share a platform with the Czech ODS and
Poland's Law and Justice (PiS) party. Leading members of the PiS have outspoken
views on homosexuality, including banning gay rights marches.

Writing in the European Voice, the European affairs weekly, Ms Jackson said: "If
you see an old friend about to drive full tilt into a brick wall, you will want
to try to stop him. Today the appalled bystanders are the British Conservative
MEPs who oppose David Cameron's pledge to leave the largest group in the
European Parliament and form a new group, set apart from the continent's
Christian Democrats and conservatives.

"The deed is done. Only those of us not standing again in June have the freedom
to advocate an alternative policy. Most of us regard Cameron's policy as a
disaster. Events are reinforcing our arguments."

Ms Jackson said the party's influence in the City would suffer, as well as in
Europe.

Lord Patten, the former cabinet minister who became a European Commissioner,
said: "It is an unwise decision and will reduce the Conservatives' influence in
the European Parliament."

The former home secretary Lord Brittan, who also became a commissioner, said:
"There is no doubt that the attempt to leave the EPP has annoyed a lot of the
European leaders who are members of the EPP and are in government. It will make
it more difficult to establish relations with them."

There was further criticism from outside the party. Tim King, the deputy editor
of European Voice, said: "This is ideological, not pragmatic. On financial
services legislation, for example, Conservative MEPs will be on the outside,
which was not the case in the past. Cameron has been so desperate to escape the
Christian Democrats that he is going to end up with far-right people, some of
whom are racists. All that social liberalism of Cameron Conservatism is not the
way that the Law and Justice party of the Poles goes."

Dr Anthony Zito, a European politics expert at Newcastle University, said: "If
they follow through with this - and I remain sceptical that they will once
they're elected - I think it would be extremely problematic. In terms of British
politics they are ceding the ground operating in the European process to Labour
and the Lib Dems."

Mr Cameron remained defiant yesterday over his plans, which he wants in place as
soon as possible after this week's poll.

A spokeswoman for Mr Cameron said: "Caroline Jackson has always held these
views, but these are not the views of the Conservative Party. None of this is
new. This is absolutely the right thing to do, to pull out of the EPP and form a
new grouping. You cannot say one thing in Britain and another thing in Europe."

Mr Cameron pledged to leave the EPP during his leadership campaign, winning over
many Tory MPs from the Eurosceptic right and helping win. In a highly risky
strategy, he has refused to order a U-turn despite the widespread condemnation.

The Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, Edward Davey, seized on reports
that the Tories have met members of a Latvian party with links to Nazi
sympathisers. Mr Davey urged the party to reveal with which parties they had
been engaged in talks ahead of Thursday's Euro elections.

In a letter to the shadow Foreign Secretary, William Hague, he said: "The
Conservative party's refusal to name its future partners in the European
Parliament denies the public the information they need to make their choice at
this election. This wall of silence, despite your many secret meetings with
potential partners, is utterly disingenuous."

He went on: "Political groups in the European Parliament are the platform for
joint political agendas. In Brussels and Strasbourg, the politics of the wider
group often informs the voting choice of the national delegation of MEPs. Is it
not then grossly hypocritical for you to leave the European People's Party on
the basis that they do not reflect your views, only to go about obscuring those
parties you will work with after 4 June?

"Is this because they are reportedly made up of homophobes, anti-Muslims,
climate change deniers and Nazi sympathisers?

"The electorate is entitled to know what secret deals have been made. What
manifestos have been prepared behind closed doors but not put before voters?
Where will you stand on climate change? On civil rights and equality? On the
economy?

"More radio silence from Conservative HQ will merely confirm the suspicions of
many that you are ashamed of your new partners and will do everything to keep
them hidden away until after the election."

Caroline Flint, the Europe minister, said: "The shadow Business Secretary, Ken
Clarke, has previously described David Cameron's Europe policy as 'head-banging'
and now other senior Conservative grandees have described it as a 'rigid
commitment to impotence', 'unwise' and 'a mistake'.

"David Cameron should listen to the experienced voices in his party, put the
national interest first, and re-think his decision to leave the European
People's Party.

"The choice for voters on Thursday could not now be any clearer: vote for
influence with Labour or isolation with the Conservatives."

The row came as research for The Independent on Sunday revealed that Labour and
Liberal Democrat MEPs have represented the best value for money for taxpayers,
while Ukip's members have been the worst.

All MEPs have netted themselves £700,000 each over the past five years in pay
and office expenses -not including staffing, travel and attendance allowances.
However, an examination of the amount of work each MEP has carried out,
including written questions, taking part in speeches and legislation, shows that
their work rate has varied considerably.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the maverick independent and ex-Ukip MEP, cost the most of
all British MEPs, at £5,965.71 per minute of speaking, based on the £41,760 he
claimed for signing in to the chamber. The cheapest was David Martin, Labour MEP
for Scotland, who cost £90.21 per minute. He spoke to the European Parliament
more times than all 10 Ukip MEPs combined.

In total, Ukip MEPs passed fewer motions, sat on no committees, filed fewer
questions per head and spoke less than any of the major parties. A typical
Labour MEP spoke twice as often and tabled five times more questions than a
typical Ukip MEP.

Conservative MEPs put in the least activity of the three major parties. They
spoke less, asked fewer questions and sat on fewer committees on average, yet
claimed more attendance allowance than the other major parties.

Labour MEPs were slightly ahead of the Liberal Democrats in how much they spoke,
while Lib Dem MEPs asked more questions. SNP MEPs beat both parties on these
counts.

JOHN RENTOUL PAGE 39

BRITAIN IN EUROPE

Ten leading MEPs

Robert Kilroy-Silk The former chat show host known for his stint in the I'm a
Celebrity jungle was elected with Ukip in 2004 but quit to form Veritas. He now
sits as an independent.

Daniel Hannan The Conservative MEP became an internet sensation in March when
his European Parliament tirade against Gordon Brown became YouTube's most-viewed
video.

Caroline Lucas One of two UK Green MEPs, she became the face of the political
organisation in England and Wales after being elected the party's first leader
last year.

Nigel Farage The Ukip leader has courted controversy, notably by remaining
seated during a standing ovation for the Prince of Wales when Prince Charles
addressed MEPs last year.

Roger Knapman Farage's predecessor as Ukip leader, who led the party when it
voted against admitting east European states into the EU, he was embarrassed in
2006 by the revelation that Polish workers he employed were sleeping in the
attic.

Michael Cashman The former Eastenders actor has been an MEP since 1999, but is
still better known as his on-screen character Colin Russell, famous for having
the first on-screen gay kiss in a soap opera.

Godfrey Bloom The Ukip MEP got off to a rocky start in 2004 after getting a seat
on the women's rights committee. He told journalists women did not 'clean behind
the fridge enough'.

Giles Chichester The South West member stepped down as the leader of
Conservative MEPs last year after an expenses scandal. An inquiry cleared him of
wrongdoing.

Tom Wise The Ukip MEP appeared in court with his researcher last month on
charges of false accounting and money laundering, charges that both deny.

Mary Honeyball The web-savvy Labour MEP spreads the 'Honeyball Buzz' and voices
her views on women's rights through her blog and regular Tweets.

Kate Youed

'Polls suggest many people intend to punish the Westminster parties'

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 41

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

Focus: Elections: LABOUR PARTY'S WORST SCENARIOS

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 189 words


Councils in the north of England

Labour is the largest party in only four of the English counties up for
election: Derbyshire, Staffordshire, Nottinghamshire and Lancashire. Last night
there were signs that it would lose all four.

Councils in the south

The Tories dominate the south and the Liberal Democrats the south-west. If
Labour were to lose its remaining seats in Surrey, Devon, Dorset, Hampshire or
Somerset, then a wipeout would be on the cards.

Share of the vote

Last year Labour won 24% of the vote, the lowest ever recorded for a governing
party. If it sinks below 20% this time, a disaster would have become a
catastrophe.

Number of seats

Last year the Conservatives, under party chairman Eric Pickles, pictured right,
made a net gain of 12 councils and 257 seats. Labour made a net loss of nine
councils and 334 seats. Many more will go this time.

European elections/BNP

Labour's worst fear is that the BNP will take one or more seats in the European
parliament.

Share of the vote

In 2004 Labour came second in the European elections, with less than 22.6%. Ukip
was on 16%. If it leapfrogs Labour, it will be seen as a humiliation.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

Leading article: On Europe, one party is showing the way

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 715 words


USUALLY, IT is lack of public interest in politics that sabotages European and
local elections. But this week's polls suffer from the opposite problem. Waves
of outrage over the expenses scandal are washing over the country, thrusting
other issues aside.

The worst possible consequence would be mass abstention. Failure to vote this
Thursday risks ceding the field to a tiny minority of well-mobilised zealots -
the racist BNP and scarcely less fanatical Ukip.

But who, then, to support? At local level, councillors are not MPs and should
not be punished for the sins of Parliament. A constructive reaction to
Westminster sleaze is to reward competence and punish ineptitude at street
level, regardless of party allegiance. Meanwhile, the European poll would,
ideally, give some recognition to the party with the most sensible EU agenda.

That rules out the Conservatives. David Cameron has preserved the visceral
hostility to the EU that defined Tory policy in its wilderness years. The
difference is that now he presents it as part of a modernising agenda to bring
Europe into the "post-bureaucratic age". He marred a mostly sensible speech on
political reform last week with the cynical insertion of a swipe at Brussels,
still caricatured as the distant enemy of our native democracy.

Mr Cameron has pledged to abandon his party's traditional centre-right allies in
the European Parliament and align himself with fringe cranks and nationalists.
This is not so much a policy as a posture, struck in deference to Ukip-minded
Tories. But that is a tendency he should be fighting, not indulging. In
government, it would lead to diminished influence inside the EU, leading to
deeper resentment of it and, ultimately, departure from it. Presumably Mr
Cameron does not aspire to make Britain an offshore service provider to a
continental trade superpower.

Just as sad as the Tories' failure to evolve a sensible line on Europe is
Labour's failure to change the terms of the debate. Gordon Brown has made no
serious effort to rebut the myth of Brussels conspiracy. Instead, he has
encouraged the parochial view of European negotiations as a zero sum game where
confected "red lines" protect our sovereignty from bureaucratic pilfering.

So the status of flagship pro-European party falls to the Liberal Democrats.
They sometimes seem embarrassed by it but they shouldn't be.

There is a pressing need in this country for advocacy of the EU as a good in
itself, as opposed to something distasteful that occasionally suits our
interests. That view does not preclude criticism of European institutions, but
it eschews wrecking tactics against them.

Nick Clegg is the most instinctively European leader at Westminster. That is
currently a lonely position, but the Lib Dems have a decent record of taking
minority stands that are later vindicated. On the environment, on civil
liberties and on the mounting debt bubble, the Lib Dems were quietly but
consistently ahead of the Westminster curve.

Likewise on transparency. In 2007, they opposed the Conservative move, tacitly
encouraged by Labour, to exempt Parliament from the Freedom of Information Act.
The Lib Dems alone took a party line for openness.

That is worth recalling as Mr Cameron and Mr Brown engage in an unseemly
scramble for reformist credentials. Also to the Lib Dems' credit is their
long-standing support for proportional representation. Of course, electoral
reform is patently in the interests of a third party seeking to disrupt a
duopoly, but that doesn't make it a bad policy.

The case for the current system generally coalesces around the idea that,
whatever its faults, it is a trusted old friend of stable government. But in the
wake of the expenses scandal, arguments that amount to defence of the status quo
ring especially hollow. And it is the expenses scandal that will decide how most
Britons vote on Thursday.

While MPs from all parties are tainted, the parties themselves are not equally
guilty. A credible record of support for transparency and for constitutional
reform reflects well on Nick Clegg's team.

This Thursday's vote is being held in a uniquely febrile climate. It should be
about Europe; it will be about the expenses scandal. On both counts, it is a
moment to reward the principled consistency of the Liberal Democrats.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

Comment: TOP 10 ONLINE LAST WEEK

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 102 words


Read them at observer.co.uk

1. Dick Cheney - Washington trembles at the return of Darth Vader World

2. I don't sleep around, if that's what you mean. . . Rosamund Pike, OM

3. The BNP's rise is a fantasy created by anti-democrats Comment

4. Live like a local in the Med Escape

5. Joanna Lumley's win is a national embarrassment Comment

6. Why having girls makes fathers more leftwing News

7. How one newspaper's 'shameful' questions have rattled Berlusconi World

8. How to cook like the Greeks OFM

9. Ukip leader Nigel Farage boasts of his £ 2m in expenses News

10. Former South Korea president leaps to death in ravine News


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

Focus: Elections: LABOUR LOSES OUT IN PEOPLE'S REVOLT: All the mainstream
parties have been hit by the expenses scandal but Labour is in freefall. Party
activists are predicting a wipeout in this week's European and local elections.
Toby Helm reports on the mood of anger across Britain and asks if a reshuffle
could help Gordon Brown regain authority as the first stirrings of a leadership
challenge begin to take shape

BYLINE: Toby Helm

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2155 words


Robin Lunn is charging around surbuban Redditch at breakneck speed on a hot
summer's evening, doing his best to drum up votes for Labour. Polling day in
council and European elections is fast approaching and his party is in deep
crisis. Soft-spoken and charming, Lunn has the air of a committed public
servant, one dedicated to improving local schools, hospitals and transport from
his position on Worcestershire county council. But as he rushes from doorstep to
doorstep on his desperate mission, it is clear he is also a victim of
extraordinary political events beyond his control.

He realised this recently when a voter had a go at him about politicians' duck
houses as if he must have one too (following revelations that MP Sir Peter
Viggers, a Tory who lives more than 100 miles away, claimed for a home for his
ducks on his parliamentary expenses). "There is a tendency to see all
politicians as the same," Lunn says. On occasions, he has been subject to abuse:
"I have had my parentage questioned a few times."

This part of the Midlands has featured heavily in the expenses saga that has
tainted Westminster - and the whole of British politics. Local people are well
up on the details of MPs' extravagances - and on many a doorstep it is clear
that they want revenge. What is happening is nothing short of a grassroots
revolution. Redditch is represented at Westminster by the home secretary, Jacqui
Smith, whose claims for housing and a pornographic video were front-page news in
April. Just down the road is Bromsgrove, the constituency of Tory MP Julie
Kirkbride, who announced on Thursday that she was standing down over her
expenses following a "Julie must go" petition signed by more than 4,000 local
people. To many local voters, she and Smith are part of a political class that
is beyond redemption.

Lunn tries his best to play down Westminster scandal and focus on local matters
on the doorstep - but too many of his voters won't let him. People young and old
open their doors, look suspiciously at the canvassers with their rosettes, and
politely express their disgust. No matter that Lunn is an upstanding fellow who
insists in his literature that he puts public service above private gain.

A few will stick with Labour, and a hardcore will stand by the Tories or Liberal
Democrats. But many say they will either not vote on Thursday or will desert to
a smaller party - the Greens, Ukip or the BNP. One retired person who had always
voted Labour said she didn't know who to support any more. "It is the expenses.
It's just gone too far," she said quietly, before shutting the door.

For a moment things look up as Lunn, one of 15 Labour councillors on the
Tory-controlled Worcestershire county council, enters a block of flats and bangs
on more doors. A young man emerges smiling and waving two £ 10 notes in the
councillor's direction. A gift for the Labour campaign? A supporter for the
cause? "No," the man says, laughing, as a whiff of curry fills the building.
"It's for my takeaway." He, too, was a Labour supporter, but no more. "They take
our money. I have to think about who to vote for now, but I think they are all
it, so what do you do?"

While the scandal over MPs' expenses is hurting all the main parties, for Labour
it threatens disaster this week. Alan Johnson, the health secretary, told the
Observer yesterday that Labour was bound to suffer more because it was the party
of government, the "brand leader". Incumbency, recession and expenses are
proving to be a lethal mix.

With Labour already so weak at council level after successive drubbings in
recent years, Thursday's results are dreaded by the high command. Last year's
local elections delivered the worst results on record for any ruling party. It
scored just 24% of the vote. Labour's total number of councillors dropped to
4,022, less than half that for the Tories, who reached 8,890. Labour was only
just ahead of the Lib Dems on 3,724. The results of the last European elections,
in 2004, were also appalling. Labour clocked 22.6% of the vote against the
background of a worsening situation in Iraq and the Hutton inquiry. It was seen
then as the low point. It couldn't get worse.

It now seems inevitable that it will. Labour supporters talk of "wipeout" on
Thursday. Records will be broken again. Anything above 20% in either election
will be seen as decent. Labour's position in local government is already dire.
It does not control a single county council across the south of England and only
three in the country as a whole.

In Buckinghamshire, Labour has no county councillors at all out of 57; in
Surrey, two out of 80; in Hampshire, Dorset and Devon, four out of 78, 45 and 62
respectively. Its only strongholds are further north in Lancashire, Derbyshire,
Staffordshire, and Nottinghamshire. Last night, senior Tory sources predicted
Labour's control would be ended in all four. The Conservatives believe they will
take Lancashire and Staffordshire and deprive Labour of overall control in the
other two. "Labour will be left with nothing, not a single county," said a Tory
party source after seeing canvassing returns.

The most recent polls confirm the trend. While the Tories and Liberal Democrats
have been hit by the expenses furore, Labour is in freefall and has dropped to
third place behind Ukip. Asked how they will vote on Thursday, 30% of those
polled in a survey for yesterday's Times said they would back the Conservatives,
19% will go for Ukip and just 16% will stick with Labour. The Lib Dems are on
12%, the Greens are up to 10% and the BNP is up three points on 5%.

More than a hundred miles away, in Basingstoke, the story of a losing struggle
against popular anger is the same. Sean Keating is defending one of the town's
two Labour seats on Hampshire county council. His majority is just 180. A
respected local figure with loyal supporters, he would, in normal times, be
confident of a win. But his team are worried because they can't tell what will
happen. Many people seem not to want to vote. Others may turn to the smaller
parties. "People tend to lump you all together," says Keating. "The general view
is 'a plague on all your houses. You are all politicians.' There is an added
uncertainty. It is no good pretending there isn't."

Pamela Harmsworth is 78 and has been a Labour activist since her youth, and she
smells trouble for the party she loves. "I think we are going to be tonked," she
says. Gordon Brown, she believes, has allowed David Cameron to make the running
on expenses. "Brown should have come out stronger. In the papers, it all seems
to be Cameron." The same wipeout that happened to the Tories in the north in the
90s is happening to Labour in the south.

Back in London, Labour is preparing its excuses and lowering expectations to the
floor. Johnson is promoting the line that Labour, the Tories and the Lib Dems
are all in it together, saying that Thursday will be "bad for all the mainstream
parties". To him and many Labour supporters, the immediate fear is that the BNP,
which already has more than 50 council seats across the country, will go one
better on Thursday and take one or more European seats under the PR system - an
outcome Johnson says would be "just so depressing". The idea of the UK
electorate sending "fascists" to represent them in Europe would be a vile
"distortion" of democracy.

Tony Travers, local government analyst at the London School of Economics,
believes we are seeing the end of the dominance of two parties in British
politics. The Tories were obliterated in the north and in Scotland; now Labour
is dying in the south. "All over southern England, Labour is already desperately
weak. Its real problem is that because it does not have many members and
activists any more, the loss of councillors means there is just nothing left at
local level.

"Exactly the same happened to the Tories in Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle.
Once you are down to such small numbers at local level, you have no chance of
gaining back the seat at national level. There is nothing there to do it with."
The sense that Labour's local base is disintegrating is compounded by
disenchantment within the union movement that supports Labour in the
communities, and provides the lion's share of the party's financial backing.

Increasingly, rank-and-file union members are questioning why they should give
money to a party whose MPs fritter public funds away on luxury lifestyles. One
senior official said: "The problem is not that Tories are claiming for duck
houses and moats, which is what our people expect Tories to do. But it is that
they see our MPs claiming for plasma TVs, which is aspirational stuff. It is
what they would like, and it makes them angry."

Paul Kenny, leader of the GMB union, is making it known to Downing Street that,
unless Brown takes a tougher line with his MPs over expenses, many of his
members will not want to fund the party any more. "More people are going to have
to fall on their sword for the good of the party," he said yesterday.

Later this month, the unions begin their conference season and several are
expected to hold votes on disaffiliating from Labour. The Communications Workers
Union says it will break its links and withdraw the £ 1m a year it gives to an
already virtually bankrupt party if Labour presses ahead with plans to
part-privatise Royal Mail. Billy Hayes, the general secretary, called on Brown
to reassure his members that he would clean up politics. "What we need is
decisive leadership and a real debate on electoral reform." Unison and the GMB
are also likely to hold disaffiliation votes at their conferences this month.

Against a background of decay and scandal, all party leaders are involved in a
frantic dash for ideas on how to clean up politics. Johnson led the charge for
Labour last weekend, when he made the case for an end to first-past-the-post.
Yesterday James Purnell, the work and pensions secretary, argued for state
funding of political parties. Cameron and Nick Clegg, for the Lib Dems, have
floated their own plans - Clegg pushing hard for a system under which
constituents would be able to sack their MPs.

The very fact that cabinet ministers have gone public with their own solutions
has highlighted what many see as a vacuum of leadership at Labour's centre. A
catastrophe on Thursday, many MPs believe, could well take the party back into a
leadership crisis and reopen questions about whether Brown can survive until the
next election.

As one senior Labour strategist put it: "We had all this a year ago, but this
time it looks as if something could happen. A year ago, Alan Johnson was not
even answering his phone. Now he seems to be everywhere. A year ago, most the
unions were behind Brown. Now I don't think they would run to his rescue."

David Miliband, the foreign secre tary, is said to be limbering up and will make
a major speech on democratic reform tomorrow. A senior Labour MP said: "They're
all setting out their stalls. Johnson is clearly up to something. The big
question is: where has Brown been in all of this up to now?"

As ever, though, no one in the party knows precisely how a change of leader
could come about because Brown - who will appear on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show
today - displays every sign of digging in. After the local and European votes,
he is likely to carry out a wide-ranging cabinet reshuffle in an attempt to give
his government a fresh look. The risks of a big clear-out are great, however,
with the likes of Hazel Blears said to be threatening to go nuclear if she is
singled out for the sack over her expenses.

MPs still believe a formal leadership challenge remains unlikely, as no one is
prepared to make the initial strike. The only way, MPs believe, is for Brown to
be persuaded to step down by the pressure of events and the realisation that his
party is collapsing almost beyond repair. A contest could be held before the
summer, giving a new leader nine months to turn round Labour' fortunes and limit
what is now seen as an inevitable Tory victory. What riles Labour people most is
that the Tories - equally embroiled in the expenses scandal - appear to be
heading towards government with no one in Labour's ranks taking the fight to
Cameron.

Today Johnson has put himself at the head of a move to save the party.
Increasingly he is talked about as the one to stop the people's revolt. "I never
thought we would get to this," said a Labour MP who now believes that Brown
should go. "And I still can't see how we do it. But my betting would be that
something will happen this summer. People out there are angry, they want change
- and we can no longer ignore that."

ON OTHER PAGES

The Lib Dems alone are truly serious about voting reform

Andrew Rawnsley, Comment, page 29

MPs may not act like Silvio, but they stink all the same

Catherine Bennett, Comment, page 31

ON THE WEB

Video: our pick of up-and-coming Labour candidates

guardian.co.uk/politics/series/can-labour-win


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

National: Johnson warns of disaster for Labour on election night: Johnson
predicts worst elections ever for Labour

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 564 words


Alan Johnson, the cabinet minister widely tipped as a successor to Gordon Brown,
prepared Labour for disaster at the polls as he predicted it would suffer the
worst local and European election results in its history.

In a candid admission last night, the health secretary said he expected all
three mainstream parties to do "badly" in Thursday's polls. But he believed that
Labour would be hit hardest by the overwhelming tide of public anger over the
MPs' expenses scandal. Raising his profile as a future leadership contender, he
told the Observer : "If you are asking me for an honest assessment about whether
recent events will have an effect, they are bound to, because we are the brand
leader, we are the party of government and it will have more of an effect on us
than the other parties."

Senior Tory sources predicted that Labour would suffer the humiliation of losing
control of all county councils across the whole of England after Thursday. The
Tory high command is confident of taking outright command of Lancashire and
Staffordshire -two of the four councils that remain under Labour's power, and of
depriving them of overall authority in the other two, Derbyshire and
Nottinghamshire.

With the BNP close to winning at least one seat in the European parliament and
Labour at risk of being pushed into third place by Ukip, activists are
questioning whether Brown can survive an electoral massacre on the scale being
predicted.

A Sunday Telegraph poll last night also revealed more people intend to vote Lib
Dem at the next general election than Labour. The ICM survey put Labour in third
place for the first time since 1987 on just 22% - three points adrift of the Lib
Dems and 18 behind the Conservatives.

Eric Pickles, the Conservative party chairman, said Johnson was "clearly doing
his best to lower expectations". But Labour did appear to have "given up"
serious campaigning across large parts of the country. In last year's council
elections, Labour slumped to the lowest level of support of any governing party
in history.

Johnson accepted that Labour would take yet more punishment on Thursday. But he
urged people to resist registering protest votes with extremists such as the
BNP. "My message to those people who would normally have voted for a mainstream
parties is 'don't change your mind because of allowances'. Registering your vote
at what has gone on for a protest would just lead to a far worse situation where
we have people who are full of hate representing us by default in the European
parliament."

Last night Tory leader David Cameron was forced to defend his expenses claims
after it was reported that he paid off a loan of £ 75,000 on his London home
shortly after taking out a £ 350,000 tax-payer funded mortgage to pay for his
constituency home in Oxfordshire. Cameron said his claims had been "perfectly
reasonable".

In a sign of his frustration at Labour's failure to land blows on Cameron and
Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg over the expenses scandal, Johnson said the
two, whom he dubbed the "self-righteous brothers", had been allowed to take the
moral high ground without being challenged over their own financial
arrangements. "I am amazed about what an easy ride Cameron and Clegg have had
over this whole issue," he said.

On other pages

Labour loses out in people's revolt, Focus, pages 24-25

Lib Dems show the way on Europe Leader Comment, page 28


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 31, 2009

Comment: For the record

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 255 words


In "Ukip leader Nigel Farage boasts of his £ 2m in expenses" (News, last week),
we said incorrectly that a debate between Farage and former Europe minister
Denis MacShane was "discreetly taped" by the hosts, the Foreign Press
Association. The FPA openly records all its briefings and in most cases puts
them on its website after the event.

Crossed consonants: the accidental substitution of an "r" for an "x" led to the
incorrect labelling of Paros and Antiparos as "Paxos" and "Antipaxos" in our map
of "Greece's Hidden Corners" (Escape, 10 May), thus relocating the latter from
the Ionian to the Aegean sea.

And, furthermore, the capital of Turkey is Ankara, not Istanbul, as we said in
"'Free holiday' scams abroad will catch out 400,000 Brits" (Cash, last week).

In "Now, let's try a little experiment. . .", an incorrect agency caption to an
image from Luke Fowler's film about a resident of RD Laing's therapeutic
community at Kingsley Hall described the subject as the psychiatrist but he was
David Bell, one of the clinic's patients. (Review, 10 May).

TS Eliot was born in St Louis, Missouri, so we were not technically correct in
"Revealed: the remarkable tale of TS Eliot's late love affair" (Review, last
week) when we described him as having "Mississippi roots", suggesting he hailed
from the Magnolia State. However, the Mississippi River meets the Missouri River
near St Louis.

Write to Stephen Pritchard, Readers' Editor, the Observer , Kings Place, 90 York
Way, London N1 9GU. Tel: 020 3353 4656 Email: reader@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 31, 2009, Sunday

DANGER OF A BNP VOTE

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 250 words


MILLIONS of voters will go to polling stations on Thursday unsure of which
political party to place their cross against.

Millions more may stay away because they do not want to vote for any party which
abuses expenses.

And that poses the biggest danger to our democracy since Hitler stood on the
docks at Calais planning his invasion of Britain.

Angry voters may even be tempted to support BNP racists or UKIP. Not voting at
all would give their fanatics a clear run.

To hand any power to either would be a mistake we would all live to regret.

Slick but slimy BNP leader Nick Griffin likes to portray his party as cuddly
nationalists who want nothing more than British jobs for British workers.

But they are no more the champions of hard-working families than the Gestapo
were bobbies on the beat.

As BNP whistleblower Chris Brennan tells The People today, underneath the smart
suits they are still the same bunch of black-hearted blackshirts who want
Britain ruled by jackboot.

The politically independent People believes that politics in this country needs
an urgent overhaul.

But in clearing corruption out of Parliament we must be careful not to replace
it with a Reichstag.

A European seat here or a council seat there would give the BNP a foothold on
power which could turn into a blitzkreig.

Any Labour, Lib Dem or Tory candidate would be better than that.

Your vote is not just your right. It is your duty to democracy.

Please use it wisely.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              16 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 31, 2009
                                   Edition 1

LABOUR FACES ELECTION MELTDOWN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 586 words


Politics dominates the news and there is an election on Thursday. But the two
seem barely connected. Even without the overwhelming impact of the expenses
scandal, when parties campaign for election to the European parliament they go,
as Willie Whitelaw once put it in another context, around the country stirring
up apathy. Even in normal circumstances there would be little chance of turnout
this week exceeding the 38% recorded in 2004.

These are not, however, normal circumstances. The country's attitude to
mainstream politicians is now one of contempt. The assumption of many
commentators is that this will have two main consequences. First, fewer voters
will bother to turn up at the polling station for an election that almost all of
them regard as a waste of time anyway. Second, many of those who do vote will
turn away from the mainstream parties.

The irony is that the two main receptacles of such votes are worse than the big
three parties. The British National party (BNP) is a racist group led by
convicted criminals, which has spent the past few years camouflaging its true
identity in order to attract protest votes from people who feel the political
mainstream is a dead end. And when it comes to party finances, the BNP leads the
way in murkiness.

The same could be said for the United Kingdom Independence party (UKIP). Two of
its 12 MEPs, who were elected in 2004, have been expelled for corruption. Tom
Wise has been charged with money laundering and false accounting after allegedly
siphoning nearly £40,000 of public money into his personal bank account, having
claimed that it was for an assistant's salary. Ashley Mote was jailed for
benefit fraud in 2007. And Nigel Farage, the party leader, has boasted of taking
£2m of taxpayers' money in expenses and allowances on top of his MEP's salary.

Even if there is a switch away from the three main parties, the real impact of
Thursday's vote could be more immediate. It may spark a revolt against Gordon
Brown, especially if Labour were to finish third or even fourth behind UKIP. Low
turnout and the febrile atmosphere may provide him with an alibi, but the
humiliation will be great.

Far more likely is another blow to Mr Brown's standing, but not a mortal one.
Labour is starting from a low base, having won just 22.6% of the vote in 2004.
Even his closest allies speak publicly of further collapse. On Thursday Ed
Balls, the children's secretary, said: "That is what is going to happen to us,
of course it is." Such a meltdown could bring out into the open the private view
of many Labour MPs that with Mr Brown as leader, defeat in the general election
is certain.

If the opinion polls are anywhere close to accurate, Labour could also lose its
four councils up for election and up to half of its 500 council seats. The
fightback has begun with Mr Brown's announcement of a new code of conduct for
MPs. The days after Thursday's vote will be his biggest test. An eye-catching
reshuffle designed to deflect attention from the election result appears
guaranteed - with the possible elevation of Mr Balls, his protégé - and Mr Brown
is said to be working on a "national plan" covering the economy, industry,
health, education and crime to show that he is the man to plot a course out of
recession.

Perhaps it will be enough to keep him in position; that is what the Tories pray
for. Had Margaret Thatcher remained leader in 1992, Neil Kinnock might have won
that election. A manoeuvre to put Alan Johnson into No 10 would be David
Cameron's nightmare.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 31, 2009
                                   Edition 2

Cameron is bet £100,000 he will renege on EU pledge

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words


THE spread betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler has accused David Cameron of "deceiving
the public over his pledge to hold a referendum on the European Union treaty,
and has offered to bet him - or anyone else - £100,000 that the Tory leader will
not deliver.

The millionaire, who recently quit the Tories to back theUK Idependence party (
UKIP) in this week's European elections, challenged the Conservative leader to
make clear he would still hold a vote if the EU consti-tutiohad already become
law in the UK by the time he came to power.

Cameron has made an EU referendum the central plank of his European campaign,
but he has repeatedly refused to commit to holding such a vote if the Lisbon
treaty - which gives sweeping new powers to Brussels, including removing several
vetoes - has already been passed by Gordon Brown.

Critics believe Cameron is either banking on the Irish killing off the
constitution in their own referendum later this year, or being able to say it is
too late to reverse the decision if he takes power next year and it has already
become part of British law.

Wheeler, who once gave the Tories a donation of £5m, said: "David Cameron is
deceiving the British public over his EU referendum pledge.

"I am prepared to bet Cameron or anyone else £100,000 that if the EU
constitution has already become law by the time he comes to power he will not
deliver.

"People should be under no illusion about this: voting for the Tories on
Thursday will be no guarantee of stopping more powers transferring to Brussels
without the British people being given a say."

Wheeler said he would withdraw his bet if Cameron pledged before the next
general election that he would hold a referendum, even if the constitution had
become law.

The treaty is viewed by many as a "back door" way of pushing through the
original EU constitution which was thrown out by French and Dutch voters in
2005. Wheeler's challenge comes as a poll yesterday put UKIP in second place
ahead of Thursday's local and European elections, pushing Labour into a
humiliating third place.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 31, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Spendthrifts, dolts, madmen - ooh, I can't wait to vote

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 659 words


Good luck to any of you prepared to drag yourselves down to the polling booth
this week: what a bright sunlit upland awaits you as you mark your cross beside
the name of some wretched Westminster wannabe from either one of the three main
parties - with their moats, mansions, tax evasions and sudden expedient
contrition - or one of the others, the weird ones on the fringe.

The UK Independence party, for example, led by a chap called Nigel Farage, who
resembles a frog that has just had a Chinese firecracker inserted in its rectum
and, worse, is clearly enjoying the experience. Nigel cheerfully admits to
having swallowed up 2m quid of taxpayers' money in allowances in his 10 years as
an MEP and seems to suggest that, as a consequence of this, he is one of the
reasons the European Union should be abolished. Of course it has not made him
more circumspect and parsimonious about his expenditure: quite the reverse.

And then two more of UKIP's MEPs seem to have had their porky little fingers in
the tills: Ashley Mote was banged up for benefits fraud, and more recently Tom
Wise was accused of money-laundering. Both have subsequently been kicked out of
UKIP - but the message is straightforward: when a political party starts telling
you about the very real need for transparency and that it will wage a war on
corruption, start counting your spoons.

The rest of UKIP, the ones who have not yet been interviewed at the local nick,
seems to consist of embittered former Tory politicians so far to the right that
they make the BNP look like your average attendee at Womad.

So, not them, then. But what about the BNP? Lately it has pretended to be more
respectable, no longer the preserve of racist, bull-necked thugs who want the
wogs to go home. Except for its candidate Eddy O'Sullivan, a racist, bull-necked
thug who, on a website, posted the comment "Wog Culture Go Home" and is a member
of a vibrant and very real organisation called F*** Islam. Another BNP
candidate, incidentally, resigned last week because she hadn't previously
realised that the party was somewhat averse, philosophically, to the
multicultural ethos that she, actually, happily embraced. Is it possible, by any
stretch of the imagination, to be more thick than this, even if you have oxtail
soup between the ears? And what happened at her BNP candidate selection meeting?
Was she asked what she thought about black people? "Yes, I think they're
absolutely terrific, full of life; I think we should have a lot more of them
over here." Frankly, give me the fraudsters and the expense- account
moat-dredgers over this level of imbecility.

You could vote for one of the Jury Team, a slate of free-thinking candidates who
are pledged to all those agreeable buzzwords - accountability, transparency,
independence from party control and so on. But beyond those vague aspirations we
do not have a clue what they believe in: they may think that Wensleydale cheese
is the work of Satan and that we should invade Poland tomorrow.

Even worse than this, one of its candidates may well be Esther Rantzen. You
could be voting for someone who will harangue you for five years about
kiddie-fiddling while occasionally showing you an example of a parsnip or a
carrot that has, hilariously, grown into the shape of a penis. There is also a
whole rack of pious God-botherers, wacko independents, monomaniacs etc. And the
Greens, of course.

The EU is a ghastly and profligate mess and this forthcoming election is
important. A sort of embarrassed collusion between the two main parties has
ensured that it is also something we have not debated in any detail for the past
10 years or so.

And so the election takes place devoid of any ideological point other than as a
stick with which to beat the government and the opposition for the errant
behaviour of their respective MPs. You might be forgiven for writing it off and
hoping that something with more substance hoves into view within the next 10
months.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 31, 2009
                                   Edition 1

PM wants Balls as chancellor;
Brown risks revolt

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words


GORDON BROWN is ready to promote Ed Balls, his closest political ally, to
chancellor this week in a high-stakes gamble to restore Labour's political
fortunes.

According to a top-level leak from Downing Street, the prime minister wants to
make the appointment the centrepiece of a sweeping reshuffle on Friday, after
the local and European polls.

With Balls, the schools secretary, one of the most divisive figures in
government, the move would be a huge risk, which could trigger a ferocious
backlash within the Labour party that could spiral into a leadership challenge.

The Sunday Times understands that Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, has
warned Brown of the potential dangers, but is ready to support the move as part
of a final attempt to revive the government's fortunes.

However, the scheme is still open to challenge from some No 10 advisers as well
as Balls's powerful Blairite enemies who will attempt to block it.

Brown's authority has become so weakened that some ministers are openly defying
Downing Street. Insiders claim the most audacious are dodging his calls -
deliberately "going to ground" when he tries to phone them.

As part of a fightback as Labour hits a historic low in the polls, the prime
minister is also preparing to announce plans for a legally binding code of
conduct for MPs in the wake of the expenses scandal.

MPs could be forced to provide a minimum standard of service to constituents, or
face sanctions including financial penalties or even ejection from the Commons.
He is also drawing up a "national plan" to show how Britain can pay off debts
while protecting public services.

According to the well-placed insider, Brown has been working on the scheme to
make Balls chancellor since the expenses debacle engulfed Westminster, taking a
handful of his closest aides into his confidence.

Brown knows the appointment would be highly controversial and is ruminating over
the possible consequences. However, Balls's elevation would fit into a wider
strategy to position Labour for the next general election, which rests on hopes
of an upturn in Britain's economic fortunes just before polling day.

Balls, who is widely respected in the City, could appear a younger, fresher face
than Alistair Darling to take on George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, in the
run-up to the elections.

While Darling is considered by the party to have done a good job in the most
difficult of circumstances, he is associated in the public mind with the darkest
days of the recession. He has also been damaged by the expenses scandal,
attracting criticism for "flipping" the designation of his main and second homes
to maximise parliamentary allowances and claiming expenses for an accountant to
complete his tax return.

Brown is said to calculate that Balls, an aggressive and effective campaigner,
will be better suited to deliver the message that Britain is on the road to
economic recovery. However, the spectre of Balls as chancellor risks enraging
powerful Blairite figures, some of whom regard such a promotion as a "deal
breaker". It risks aligning a swathe of the Labour parliamentary party-many of
whom are not normally sympathetic to the Blairite faction-to these critics,
dramatically increasing the chances of a leadership challenge. While few
question Balls's economic competence, many backbenchers remain deeply
distrustful of the prime minister's closest henchman. Yesterday one senior
Blairite figure warned of devastating consequences for the prime minister if he
pressed ahead.

"If Gordon wants to bring the whole house of cards tumbling down, this is the
way to do it. The reaction will be apoplectic," he said. Vince Cable, the
Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman, yesterday called for Darling to be sacked,
saying: "He is the finance director who has been caught with his fingers in the
till." Darling could be sent to the Home Office, a simple move for Brown since
Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, has privately made it clear she is ready to
step down. Balls, a former City minister and Brown's most loyal ally, has made
no secret of his ambition to become chancellor, and plays a crucial role in
economic strategy. His influence has led to tension with Darling .

A Downing Street spokesman said: "We do not comment on reshuffles." A poll this
weekend puts Labour on 21%, its lowest rating in polling history. It raises the
possibility that the party could come third in the European elections for the
first time, behind the Tories and UKIP. Such a disastrous performance would fuel
the prospect of a leadership challenge, with Alan Johnson, one of the few
potential contenders undamaged by the expenses furore, considered Brown's most
likely successor. In the past few days, Johnson, the health secretary, and James
Purnell, the work and pensions secretary, another possible candidate, have set
out in newspaper articles their vision for restoring trust in politics, fuelling
speculation.

This week, David Miliband, the foreign secretary and one-time favourite to oust
Brown, will outline his ideas in a speech to the Fabian Society. The heads keep
on rolling, Focus, page 12

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour's meltdown to boost UKIP;
Our MPs' expenses are nothing compared to riches MEPs claim

BYLINE: By David Craig

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 460  words


IN Britain we have been scandalised by the avarice, dishonesty and greed of our
MPs but they are mere amateurs compared to those fortunate enough to be elected
to the European Parliament.

Westminster MPs can pocket at least GBP 50,000 a year tax free by skillfully
manipulating the expenses system. That must seem like small beer to our MEPs.

The biggest pot they can dip into is for employing staff, which pays about GBP
184,000 each a year.

This allowance has risen by an inflation-busting 34 per cent in five years. You
could employ quite a few people for that but most MEPs have one secretary and at
most one or two usually poorly paid researchers. Some share secretaries to save
money - yet most still claim much of their allowance. The European Parliament's
auditors recently looked at how a selection of MEPs used their assistants'
allowances. They found irregularities in about 90 per cent of cases reviewed but
as the Parliament voted to stop us seeing this report, we'll never know what
happens to our cash.

All MEPs have fully furnished, rent-free offices at the European Parliament but
they get more than GBP 44,000 a year to maintain an office in their
constituencies.

Most do not have a constituency office. If they do, it is a room in their house
which they rent to themselves. But whether MEPs have an office or not, they
still get the money without having to provide receipts. MEPs can claim a
subsistence allowance of about GBP 260 a day for every day they go to work in
Brussels or Strasbourg. This gives them GBP 41,000 a year tax free. MEPs call
this allowance the SOSO (Sign On Sod Off), because all they have to do to get it
is sign in.

Given that a three-star hotel near the Parliament costs about GBP 80 a night
including breakfast, that leaves MEPs with GBP 180 a day for lunch and dinner.

But with subsidised restaurants in the Parliament and endless dinner events,
most would struggle to use any of this money, making it quite easy to pocket
another GBP 20,000 a year.

Once you add the thousands to be made from travel expenses and the money they
receive when they leave the Parliament, most MEPs can live like royalty and then
walk away with about GBP 1million in cash after only one five-year term.

After years of resisting any attempts to control their lax expenses system, MEPs
have finally agreed to some supposed reforms. After the elections some brakes
will be put on assistants' allowances and travel expenses. But many Westminster
MPs must envy their Brussels colleagues who are able to accumulate vast fortunes
without public scrutiny or the need for anything so tedious as providing
receipts.

David Craig is the author of The Great European Rip-Off (GBP 8.99 Random House
2009) and is standing as a candidate for Libertas on June 4

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Polls reveal Scots likely to snub minority parties in big Euro-vote

BYLINE: By Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 345  words


POLLS showed yesterday that the minority parties, such as UKIP and the BNP, are
not faring as well in Scotland as they are south of the Border.

Instead, the Nationalists are likely to consolidate their position as Scotland's
leading party by taking 37 per cent of the vote in Thursday's criucial European
poll.

The analysis of the four most recent polls in Scotland puts Labour on 25 per
cent, the Tories on 17 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 12 per cent.

However, UKIP and the Greens are both on just three per cent, with all the
others, including the BNP and various socialists and independents, on around
four per cent.

Poll figures yesterday suggested that in the UK as a whole, Labour would slip to
third behind UKIP for the first time in history.

The Populus poll showed the anti-EU party has risen 13 points to 19 per cent.

It also found that the far-right BNP had five per cent of the overall UK vote,
with eight per cent in northern England - raising fears that leader Nick Griffin
may become an MEP.

The party has been campaigning hard in Scotland and claims to have distributed
11,000 A3-size window posters.

But Scots Labour MEP David Martin, speaking from the village gala at Penicuik in
Midlothian, said the choice was "crystalising" among main parties as Thursday
draws near.

He said: "Labour wants Europe to work together to get us out of recession. SNP
MEPs have been exposed this week as having the worst attendance record, missing
large numbers of votes.

And the Tories say it is a priority to scrap key European rights at work."

Meanwhile, Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the poll figures were a
"great boost" for the SNP.

She added: "The SNP Government works for Scotland, SNP policies are creating and
protecting tens of thousands of jobs - and this poll analysis shows that the
people are with the SNP. The more votes and seats the SNP win in the European
elections, the stronger Scotland's voice will be."

First Minister Alex Salmond was also on the campaign trail in Ellon,
Aberdeenshire, yesterday, with candidates Drew Hendry and Aileen McLeod.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLL POSITION: Salmond's

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour's meltdown to boost UKIP;
Mandelson could be the one to lead revolt against Brown

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 868  words


LORD MANDELSON was last night emerging as a potential power broker in the future
of the Labour Party, amid predictions the party will suffer meltdown in this
week's European and local elections.

A senior minister told the unday Express that disastrous results could spark a
last-ditch bid to oust Gordon Brown, provided Lord Mandelson could be persuaded
to act.

The minister said: "We know it is going to be grim but if it turns into a total
disaster then the leadership question will be straight back on the table.

"Gordon will not go of his own volition, he will have to be told that he has
lost the confidence of the Cabinet. Peter (Mandelson) would have to be part of
that for it to have any chance of working."

Another senior Labour figure said: "We are in exactly the same position as last
year except that Gordon has had one more year to prove that he is not up to the
job.

"The question is whether anyone in the Cabinet has got the nerve to act."

A close ally of Lord Mandelson said the Business Secretary remained loyal to the
Prime Minister but would act if Cabinet colleagues persuaded him it was in the
clear interests of the party.

He added: "Could he do it? Yes.

Would he? Peter is not in that place yet. He would have to be persuaded that it
was in the interests of the country and the party, but yes he could do it
because he is one of the very few who is not afraid to stand up to Gordon.

"Others who might have done it have been weakened by the expenses scandal or
have already shown that they have not got the balls."

Health Secretary Alan Johnson, one of the few senior ministers to emerge
unscathed from the expenses scandal, is the frontrunner to replace Mr Brown if
he is forced out.

Opinion polls yesterday predicted Labour could trail in a humiliating third in
Thursday's European arliament elections behind the Conservatives and the tiny UK
Independence Party.

A Populus poll on the Euroelections put the Conservatives on 30 per cent, UKIP
on 19 per cent, Labour on 16 per cent, the Lib Dems on 12 per cent, the Greens
on 10 per cent and the BNP on five per cent.

The same poll suggested Labour would attract just 21 per cent of the vote in a
General Election - lower than the 24.5 per cent achieved by Michael Foot in
1983.

An astonishing 62 per cent thought Mr Brown had been the leader most damaged by
the expenses scandal, compared with just five per cent who thought David Cameron
had been hit the hardest. Private polling for both UKIP and the Conservatives
also suggests that Gordon Brown is ining up a wide-ranging Cabinet reshuffle in
a bid to bolster his position after Thursday's poll, which could also see Labour
lose control of its last four county councils - Staffordshire, Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.

He is under pressure to clear out Cabinet Ministers accused of abusing their
expenses, including Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, Communities Secretary Hazel
Blears, Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and Pensions Secretary James Purnell.

Speculation is mounting at Westminster that he may reach out to the Liberal
Democrats, possibly by offering a Cabinet job to the party's Treasury spokesman
Vince Cable, in a bid to wrong foot the Tories and breathe new life into his
Government.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage esterday said he hoped for an electoral "earthquake" to
change Britain's relations with Europe.

"If UKIP can cause an earthquake next Thursday, if we can really send a loud and
clear message to the big party leaders, I would like them to go into the next
general election promising us, the British people, the right that we can have a
referendum to decide whether we are part of this Union or not." Turnout in the
European elections is predicted to fall to as low as 20 per cent in some parts
of the country, increasing the chance fringe parties will do well.

The far-right BNP was last night said to be shifting virtually all its activists
to the North-west in a bid to get party leader Nick Griffin elected in that
region.

Meanwhile, the Sunday Express can reveal that MEPs have voted themselves a pay
rise that will see British MEPs take home almost 30 per cent more.

The pay of a British MEP will rise from GBP 64,766 to GBP 83,636 this month
after the Parliament voted to adopt a single pay rate for all MEPs.

They are also entitled to an extra GBP 271 for every day they turn up to work,
along with tens of thousands of pounds a year in expenses. They pay an EU tax
rate of 15 per cent.

In March the Parliament, ncluding the majority of British MEPs, voted to keep
details of their expenses secret.

Mats Persson, of the think tank Open Europe, said: "It's very sappointing to see
so many MEPs who pride themselves on working for more transparency and honesty
in the EU, hypocritically voting to keep their own expenses secret.

"It's precisely this type of double standard that makes the public lose faith in
politicians.

"Unlike the disgraced MPs in Westminster, MEPs in Brussels can spend their
allowances on holidays, duck ponds, moats, mortgages or whatever takes their
fancy, safe in the knowledge that neither the media nor taxpayers will ever find
out."

A spokesman for the European Parliament said the rise in salary for British MEPs
was a result of the weak pound.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NERVE: Lord Mandelson is not afraid to stand up to the PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour's meltdown to boost UKIP;
The Big Interview

BYLINE: with Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 1038  words


NIGEL Farage is one of those politicians whose fame and notoriety vastly exceeds
the size and clout of his party.

Indeed, the leader of the UK Independence Party is probably a more recognisable
figure on the British political scene than half the Cabinet, despite having only
nine MEPs in Brussels and not one at Westminster.

Yet, if Mr Farage gets his way this Thursday, he could help decide the outcome
of the next general election.

UKIP is currently at 18 per cent in the polls for this week's European
elections.

If that translates into votes at the ballot box and even inches up to 20 per
cent, UKIP could beat Labour into second place, leaving the Liberal Democrats
trailing in fourth.

Then, he says, they will be in a position to do deals that could finally bring a
referendum on the burning question of whether we want to remain at the heart of
the European project.

This is not just a pipe dream for the 45-year-old former commodities broker who
left a high-paying City job 10 years ago to pursue his ambition of freeing
Britain from what he sees as the tyranny of rule from Brussels.

"Thursday's vote is your opportunity to send a message, " he says. "It may be a
tremor but it could be an earthquake through the Westminster system that says
you are not happy, that you haven't got a voice, that you haven't been asked
about any of these big issues and that you demand the right to have a referendum
to decide your own future.

Beating Labour and getting a fifth of the vote or more would be an earthquake in
historical political terms. I shall stand up the next morning and say, 'Right,
we're going to fight 550 seats at the next general election. We may not win any
under first-past-the-post but we shall do an enormous amount of damage,
especially to the Conservatives in the shires.' The Conservatives are going to
have to deal with it."

Then he adds with a conspiratorial smile: "But we're reasonable people and if
the Conservative party or Labour, or both, were to promise that within a year of
winning a general election they would give the British people a free and fair
referendum on an opt-out from European political union, I would have no
hesitation in saying that UKIP should not contest that election.

"We should put the national interest and the opportunity for people to have a
vote on this above our own selfish party interest. I think David Cameron wants
the keys to Number 10 more than anything else. If the European question or UKIP
was something that might get in the way of him doing that, I think he would do a
deal. I think it's possible."

Even if it is, many voters might shy away from voting for a party that does not
really want to be in power.

"What Liberal leader since Lloyd George has had a realistic expectation of
becoming Prime Minister?" comes the retort. "Anyway if, after all those years of
wanting proportional representation the Lib Dems actually got it, then we'd then
overtake them as Britain's third party."

The Liberal Democrats, though, would claim to have an entire manifesto of
policies and are not just a "one-trick pony" party obsessed with Europe.

"This is a one-trick election, " Farage booms. "Ask me on June 5 about
education, about simplifying the tax system, about why 50 per cent of kids
should not go to university, about why selective education works and we should
go back to it, why we need to lock up criminals for longer, anything you like.

This election is about Europe and nothing else.

"It's inevitable that Britain's relationship with the EU will have to change
eventually.

"It's not working. It doesn't have the consent of anybody.

"Even when the UK does restructure its relationship with the EU, there's still a
need for a party like UKIP. Our ethos is that we want less government and more
individual freedom and the responsibility that goes with having that freedom. I
think that even outside the EU, the extent to which the state controls our lives
is truly horrifying.

What is the point of debating democratic reform at Westminster if it doesn't do
anything? What does Westminster actually do? With the combination of the EU, the
quangos and executive power in this country, what does Parliament actually do?
This is just nonsense.

"Our objective was to go to Brussels and find out what was going on, report that
back to the British public and try and have a debate on it. That was the
strategy. When we were first elected there in 1999, leaving the EU and reverting
to a trade agreement was a minority sport. It is now a settled majority view in
this country and I believe - and I hope it's not arrogant - that is partly
because of UKIP.

"We want to be friendly with Europe, we want to trade with Europe, we want to
co-operate on cross-border crime and people trafficking. But we want to divorce
ourselves from the political union. The Commission has the sole right to
initiate and repeal EU law. It's quite incredible. We don't find it acceptable
that 75 per cent of our laws are made by 27 unelected Commissioners in the EU
and there's nothing any British government can do to get rid of any of it."

Some have called the party "the BNP in blazers". Only a few years ago, Robert
Kilroy-Silk, a former UKIP MEP who left in a fit of pique after failing to
become leader, described them as "right-wing fascist nutters" while David
Cameron has called them as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

"There's been a very deep prejudice against us, " Farage explains. "That is
based on the fact that anything vaguely patriotic or nationalistic has been
viewed with deep suspicion in this country. I do not think anybody thinks that
believing we should not be part of the European Union and that we should control
our borders properly is in any way racist or xenophobic.

"Our policies are what most Conservatives believe in, yet the Tory leadership
wants to play the man and not the ball, attacking UKIP, not our policies. That
shows me they're terrified of the argument."

For a man who could be about to change Britain's future forever, Farage is
remarkably relaxed.

Just suppose that there was a shock UKIP landslide at the next general election
and he became Prime Minister.

What would be the first thing he would do?

"Oh, I'd go to the Westminster Arms for a pint, " he replies.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWER BROKER: Nigel Farage feels confident that public feeling against
Europe is growing fast enough for his party to have an influence on the outcome
of the next general election

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Labour's meltdown to boost UKIP;
Mandelson could be the one to lead revolt against Brown

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 759  words


LORD MANDELSON was last night emerging as a potential power broker in the future
of the Labour Party, amid predictions the party will suffer meltdown in this
week's European elections.

A senior minister told the unday Express that disastrous results could spark a
bid to oust the Prime Minister, if Lord Mandelson could be persuaded to act.

The minister said: "We know it is going to be grim, but if it turns into a total
disaster then the leadership question will be straight back on the table.

"Gordon will not go of his own volition, he will have to be told that he has
lost the confidence of the Cabinet. Peter (Mandelson) would have to be part of
that."

Another senior Labour figure said: "We are in exactly the same position as last
year except that Gordon has had one more year to prove that he is not up to the
job.

"The question is whether anyone has the nerve to act."

A close ally of Lord Mandelson, said the Business Secretary was still loyal to
the Prime Minister but would act if Cabinet olleagues persuaded him it was in
the clear interests of the party.

He added: "Could he do it? Yes.

Would he? Peter is not in that place yet; he would have to be persuaded that it
was in the interests of the country and the party, but yes he could do it
because he is one of the very few who is not afraid to stand up to Gordon.
Westminster Health Secretary Alan Johnson, one of the few senior ministers to
emerge unscathed from the expenses scandal, is the f ontrunner to replace Mr
Brown.

Opinion polls yesterday predicted Labour could trail in a humiliating third in
Thursday's European arliament elections behind the Conservatives and the tiny UK
Independence Party.

A Populus poll put the Conservatives on 30 per cent, UKIP on 19 per cent, Labour
on 16 per cent, the Lib Dems on 12 per cent, the Greens on 10 per cent and the
BNP on five per cent.

The same poll suggested Labour would attract just 21 per cent of the vote in a
General Election - lower than the 24.5 per cent achieved by Michael Foot in
1983.

An astonishing 62 per cent thought Mr Brown was the leader most damaged by the
expenses scandal, compared to just five per cent who thought David Cameron had
been hit the hardest. Private polling for both UKIP and the Conservatives also
suggests that Gordon Brown is ning up a wideranging Cabinet reshuffle in a bid
to bolster his position after Thursday's poll.

He is under pressure to clear out Cabinet ministers accused of abusing their
expenses, including Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, Communities Secretary Hazel
Blears, Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and Pensions Secretary James Purnell.

Speculation is mounting at Westminster that he may reach out to the Liberal
Democrats, possibly by offering a Cabinet job to the party's Treasury spokesman
Vince Cable, in a bid to wrong foot the Tories.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage yesterday said: "If UKIP can cause an earthquake next
Thursday, if we can really send a loud and clear message to the big party
leaders, I would like them to go into the next general election promising us,
the British people, the right to a referendum to decide whether we are part of
this Union or not."

Turnout in the European elections is predicted to fall to as low as 20 per cent
in some parts of the country, increasing the chance fringe parties will do well.

Meanwhile, the Sunday Express can reveal that MEPs have voted themselves a pay
rise that will see them take home almost 30 per cent more.

The pay of a British MEP will rise from GBP 64,766 to GBP 83,636 this month
after the Parliament voted to adopt a single pay rate for all members.

They are also entitled to an extra GBP 271 for every day they turn up to work,
along with tens of thousands of pounds a year in expenses. They pay an amazingly
low EU tax rate of 15 per cent.

In March, the Parliament, ncluding the majority of British MEPs, voted to keep
details of their expenses secret.

Mats Persson, of the think tank Open Europe, said: "It's very disappointing to
see so many MEPs who pride themselves on working for more transparency and
honesty in the EU, hypocritically voting to keep their own expenses secret.

"It's precisely this type of double standard that makes the public lose faith in
politicians.

"Unlike the disgraced MPs in Westminster, MEPs in Brussels can spend their
allowances on holidays, duck ponds, moats, mortgages or whatever takes their
fancy, safe in the knowledge that neither the dreaded media nor taxpayers will
ever find out."

A spokesman for the European Parliament said the rise in salary for British MEPs
was a result of the weak pound.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWER: Peter Mandelson may be asked to tell Brown it's time to go

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 31, 2009

No wonder voters can't be bothered

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 706  words


With four days to go before we can take part in the second largest "democratic''
election in the world (after India's), it is not just the diversion of the
scandals engulfing our own Parliament which has driven voting for the EU's
version further than ever off the radar.

At least, last time the flurry of excitement over Kilroy-Silk and Joan Collins -
resulting in the UK Independence Party winning 12 seats - temporarily halted
that steady collapse in turnout which in 1999 saw only 23 per cent of the
electorate bothering to vote. The trouble with the European Parliament, as we
know, is that none of us really know how to relate to it, or what connection
this remote, mysterious body has with our lives. Probably not more than one in a
thousand could name more than a couple of the MEPs we sent there last time. The
farcical "list system'', based on dividing Britain up into 12 vast
"Euro-regions'', means we probably didn't even know the names of the
mediocrities we voted for.

As for what they did when they got there, all that most of us are dimly aware of
is that their financial rewards and perks make Westminster look like a
poorhouse, with MEPs now on  pounds 83,262 a year, plus a further  pounds 34,000
food and drink allowance just for turning up, plus  pounds 229,000 for staff and
office expenses, plus travel expenses so lavish that, as one put it, "if you
can't pocket half of what you get, you're not trying''.

Nor does the political class help us to any better understanding with the
vacuous leaflets they have been putting through our doors, most of which have
little to do with the EU anyway. Labour tells us that Gordon Brown has been
saving the economy, that if "you or a loved one'' lose your job you might be
able to benefit from the Mortgage Protection Scheme, and that David Cameron's
top priority is to get a "tax cut for 3,000 millionaires''.

The Tories supply us with lots of pictures of Mr Cameron and tell us that they
are "campaigning for local rail services''. The Lib Dems tell us that Nick Clegg
cares about "our children's future'' and that the "carbon footprint'' of their
leaflet has been "offset'' with an African Energy Efficiency Project (ie telling
poor Africans they can't have reliable electricity).

The BNP mentions the Somme, Dunkirk and the Falklands, and uses a picture of
foreign actors in hard hats to promise it will "protect British jobs''.

Ukip, over a picture of Churchill giving the V-sign, tells us it wants out. Yet
the fact is that, in important respects, this parliament they want us to elect
them to has considerably more power over how Britain is governed than the sadly
diminished talking shop we have in Westminster (which is one reason why our MPs
have so lost their self-respect).

As the creators of the "European project'' intended, this über-Parliament, with
its vast, brave-new-world buildings in Brussels in Strasbourg, has steadily
expanded its powers at the expense of national parliaments, and will do so even
more if they get their "Not-the-Constitution'' Lisbon Treaty.

But virtually nothing we can do on Thursday will have any real influence in
deciding how we are governed. With 78 of 785 MEPs, Britain has only a tenth of
the influence on anything that goes on in the European Parliament. And the vast
majority of MEPs, including our own, are only really concerned with promoting
the interests of the new supra-national government of which they are part.

In short, the result of this week's election will be virtually meaningless,
apart from giving voters a chance to express outrage at how they have in effect
been disfranchised by our increasingly corrupt political class. Many people will
express their anger by shutting their eyes and voting for Ukip (now standing
second ahead of Labour in the polls). Rather fewer, but still quite a lot, will
do so by voting BNP.

But the very fact that these parties exist is a symptom of how our main parties
have floated off into a bubble of their own conceits and concerns, which show no
understanding of the world in which the rest of us live. In that sense, Thursday
will drive another nail into the coffin of what, within living memory, was
still, along with America's, the most respected democratic system in the world.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 31, 2009

MP claimed pounds 5 for church collection;
Brown slides to third in polls after shock revelations;
Voters punish Labour for the expenses scandal

BYLINE: PATRICK SAWER and PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780  words


AN MP used his expenses to claim for a  pounds 5 donation he made during a
church service to commemorate the Battle of Britain.

Frank Cook, a Labour backbencher, sought reimbursement on his office expenses
after the memorial service in his constituency town of Stockton-on-Tees. It was
rejected by the parliamentary fees office.

The controversial claim was one of a series made by MPs that can be disclosed
today, including reimbursement for carpets bought in India, sweets bought by a
former party leader and office expenses used for household items.

The disclosures come as an ICM opinion poll for The Sunday Telegraph deals a
devastating blow to Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister. For the first time in more
than 20 years, Labour polled lower than the Liberal Democrats when electors were
asked who they would vote for in a general election.

Just 22 per cent said they would vote Labour, with the Liberal Democrats on 25
per cent and the Conservatives on 40 per cent and heading for a landslide win.

With Labour expected to do badly in this week's local and European elections the
poll will inevitably lead to further questions over the Prime Minister's future.
When asked who they would vote for on Thursday in European elections, 29 per
cent said Tory and 20 per cent said Liberal Democrat. Labour was third on 17 per
cent - ahead of the Greens (11 per cent) and the United Kingdom Independence
Party (10 per cent). The British National Party was on five per cent.

The poll indicated that the MPs' expenses scandal had hit Labour hardest. More
than half of all voters (54 per cent) thought it had been the most damaged by
the disclosures, while only 13 per cent felt that the Conservatives had been
worst hit. More than half of those surveyed backed a general election this year.

Today, The Sunday Telegraph discloses the expense claims of members of
parliament who represent low "value-for-money'' when their voting records,
participation in parliamentary debates and number of questions they ask are
compared to their total level of expenses.

The most extraordinary was made by Mr Cook, who tried to claim for  pounds 5 he
gave at a Battle of Britain memorial service. A handwritten note attached to the
claim by way of a receipt stated: "Battle of Britain church service, Sunday
17.09.06.  pounds 5 contribution to offertory on behalf of Frank Cook MP.''

The fees office wrote on his claim "Not Allowed'' and refused to pay out on the
claim. Markings on the note indicate that the authorities planned to blank out
the word "offertory'' before it was to be made public in the summer, meaning
that the precise nature of the claim would then have remained hidden from the
public if it had not been disclosed by the Telegraph.

It is particularly embarrassing because Mr Cook is an official supporter of the
campaign to commemorate Air Chief Marshal Sir Keith Park, who commanded the
RAF's 11 Group Fighter Command during the Battle of Britain.

Other claims disclosed today include:

* A bath mat, gardening equipment and more than  pounds 7,000 of repairs claimed
on office expenses by Roger Godsiff, a Labour backbencher. He was already
claiming his maximum second home allowance to cover the interest on the large
mortgage for his home in London when he made dozens of claims for "office
sundries'' on his office expenses.

* More than  pounds 1,000 for handmade carpets claimed by Bob Walter, a
Conservative MP, after he bought them on a trip to India. It was part of  pounds
85,000 of second homes allowance payments in four years for his home in Dorset
after switching the designation from a property in London.

* More than  pounds 3,000 spent on cameras, photographers and photo editing
computer software by David Mundell, the shadow Scottish secretary, to take
hundreds of publicity pictures of himself.

* A pink laptop claimed by Tim Yeo, a former Tory minister, in the weeks leading
up to Christmas.

* Three boxes of mints and two teddy bears bought from the gift shop at the
House of Commons by Charles Kennedy, a former leader of the Liberal Democrats.

The disclosures come on Day 24 of the Telegraph's investigation into MPs'
expenses. Twelve backbenchers have so far announced that they will stand down at
the next election in the wake of the scandal.

Dozens have also repaid questionable claims and more told The Sunday Telegraph
yesterday that they would pay back money claimed unjustifiably.

David Cameron, the Conservative leader, is backing a "recall'' power for voters
to force out MPs who break Commons rules. Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, has led calls for a "recall'' mechanism to be triggered if 5 per cent of
constituents signed a petition demanding a by-election.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 31, 2009

Brown is beaten into third place in Labour meltdown;
Party's worst poll result in 22 years will raise the pressure on PM

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; INVESTIGATION - MPs' EXPENSES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 652  words


GORDON BROWN suffers a devastating blow today with a new opinion poll showing
Labour's support in a general election falling behind the Liberal Democrats for
the first time in 22 years.

The ICM poll for The Sunday Telegraph is the worst possible news for the Prime
Minister as he enters his most important week since taking power, with Labour
expecting a hammering in Thursday's local and European elections.

The results, which suggest that Labour has suffered particularly badly from the
MPs' expenses scandal in voters' eyes, are certain to increase speculation that
Mr Brown will face a leadership challenge within the next few weeks. Asked who
they would support in a general election, only 22 per cent of voters back
Labour, with the party slumping behind both the Conservatives on 40 per cent
and, crucially for Mr Brown's future, the Liberal Democrats  who are on 25 per
cent.

The last time Labour was in third place in any poll in a "general election''
question was in 1987 - when the party was reeling from defeat in a by-election
held in Greenwich and hard-Left local councils were tarnishing its reputation
across the country.

The results when voters were asked who they would support in Thursday's
elections to the European parliament are no better for Mr Brown.

Labour again comes third with just 17 per cent, down from the 23 per cent the
party achieved in what was judged a poor performance in the last set of such
elections, in 2004.

The Conservatives lead in today's poll with 29 per cent, while the Lib Dems are
on 20 per cent.

The United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip), which has achieved scores
rivalling Labour's in recent polls, gets only 10 per cent and is beaten into
fifth place by the resurgent Greens, who are on 11 per cent.

The British National Party (BNP), meanwhile, is flatlining on 5 per cent.

Although predictions of vote share at European elections are notoriously
difficult, due in part to low turnout, Labour is already braced for a heavy
defeat. Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, has already conceded the party will
perform badly. If Labour loses control of the four county councils it is
defending and gets under 20 per cent of the vote in the European elections, Mr
Brown could face a challenge from within his Cabinet - with Alan Johnson, the
Health Secretary, set to emerge as his likeliest successor.

The Prime Minister is thought to be planning a sweeping Cabinet reshuffle next
week in an attempt to reassert his political authority.

A report in yesterday's Daily Telegraph suggested he was considering some sort
of power-sharing deal with the Liberal Democrats, including bringing leading Lib
Dems such as Vincent Cable, the party's Treasury spokesman, into the Government.

Nick Clegg's party has emerged relatively well from the MPs' expenses scandal.

When asked by ICM which main party had been most damaged, just 2 per cent said
the Lib Dems, compared with 54 per cent believing Labour had come out worst and
13 per cent claiming the Tories were the most damaged.

Some 25 per cent say all three main parties have been equally damaged.

Just over a third of voters (35 per cent) have followed David Cameron's call and
want a general election now, while a further 19 per cent want an election in the
autumn - making 54 per cent in total who want to vote in a new parliament this
year.

Some 39 per cent want Mr Brown to wait until next year before going to the
country, which he must do by June 2010.

In its general election finding today, Labour's score of 22 per cent is the
lowest level of support recorded for the party since ICM started regular polling
in 1984.

Senior Labour sources last night warned of the dangers of protest votes being
levelled in anger at the Government but which would only benefit
"unrepresentative'' minor parties.

Mr Brown is expected to launch the latest stage of his fightback against
allegations of sleaze in television interviews today.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 31, 2009

Ukip is still struggling to find a way out of the political wilderness, in spite
of predictions it might benefit from the expenses scandal

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; INVESTIGATION - MPs' EXPENSES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 907  words


ALL is not as peaceful as it seems behind the white picket fences of Englefield
Green.

People in this immaculate Surrey commuter village are angry. The area is a
Conservative stronghold with its mixture of large, upmarket houses, rows of
terrace cottages and small estates of neat bungalows and semis.

But voters here are shocked by the expenses row. Political campaigners for the
local and European elections are getting a polite form of abuse on the
doorsteps.

As Marta Andreasen, a Ukip European candidate, walks down a sunny street of
camellia-covered houses, she is heckled by a workman.

"I'm digging a moat,'' he laughs grimly. "I'm going to claim it back from the
taxpayer.''

Ukip posters flutter everywhere but it is difficult to assess whether there is a
genuine groundswell of support for the anti-European party here or whether the
impressive campaigning presence is simply the result of heavy funding.

Stuart Wheeler, the former Tory donor, wrote Ukip a cheque for  pounds 100,000
two months ago.

The party, which is fielding 567 candidates in the local elections on Thursday,
claims to be gaining ground and says it will increase its representation in the
south east of England from one MEP seat, held by their party leader Nigel
Farage, to three MEPs, for which it will need 23 per cent of the vote.

It says it is gaining votes from both Labour and the Tories and that, overall,
it hopes to return 12 MEPs.

It was buoyed by a poll two weeks ago putting it neck and neck with Labour, with
a projected share of the vote in this week's election of 19 per cent.

It came second in a council by-election in Tadworth in Surrey a month ago with
24 per cent of the vote. Anyone driving on the M25 in Surrey recently will have
noticed the huge Ukip placards in fields erected by farmers.

But a poll in The Sunday Telegraph today shows Ukip slipping six points to 10
per cent, well behind Labour on 17 per cent.

It also risks disappointment because it is defending a high water mark at the
European elections of 2004 when it secured 12 seats in Brussels.

That was when it was enjoying the publicity generated by Robert Kilroy-Silk, the
former Labour MP and television presenter who stood as a Ukip candidate in the
East Midlands but stomped out of the party after an abortive bid for the
leadership.

He denounced his erstwhile colleagues as "bloody Right-wing fascist nutters'',
only marginally less flattering than David Cameron's verdict of "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists''.

As so often, Ukip threatened to implode, only to re-emerge buoyant.

Mr Farage, 45, a jovial sort, has been a reasonably high-profile leader, though
not always for the right reasons.

Last week he admitted he must have taken  pounds 2 million from the EU in
allowances. But he is an effective media performer, as is Ms Andreasen.

In 2002 she was suspended as the EC's chief accounting officer for refusing to
sign off the accounts and styles herself as a "whistleblower''.

She says: "The challenge for us now is to bring the focus on to the EU. There is
fraud going on there on a much bigger scale.''

This is a problem for Ukip, because its MEPs have also been fiddling. MEP Tom
Wise was expelled after he was accused of cheating taxpayers in an alleged
allowances scam, and another is under investigation. Ms Andreasen insists that
people will still look to the fringe party because they are dismayed with
mainstream politicians.

Her theory begins to look plausible in a road of small bungalows and terraces
where every other house has a Ukip poster. One of them is displayed by Joan
Whiddett, 77, a widow whose grandfather was a Conservative councillor.

"I'm voting for the Ukip because I don't want to belong to the EU and I don't
want more immigrants in the country,'' she says. "I think there's enough in the
country at the moment.''

But in a home without a Ukip poster, the pair get a hostile response. Andrea
Berardi, 37, an Open University lecturer from Naples, is worried by what he sees
as a rise in the Far Right.

He accuses Ukip of being "the BNP in blazers''. "My wife is Indian and she gets
a lot of abuse around here. It's the same individuals who used to have BNP
posters up who have Ukip posters up now. It's the same houses.''

Accusations of racism are nothing new for Ukip. Last November a pro-BNP group
stormed into a meeting of the party's national executive and offered an alliance
in which the BNP would concentrate on the north of the country and Ukip the
south.

Mr Farage told the delegation to leave but the impression persists that there is
common ground between them. It may not be an official pact, but the BNP is free
from a Ukip challenge in 80 per cent of the seats it is contesting, while Ukip
has no BNP challenger in 85 per cent of the seats in which it is standing.

Patric Glasheen, 63, is another potential Ukip voter.The second-hand book dealer
says: "Most of the things Cameron says are pretty wishy-washy. The expenses row
puts you off big politicians. Politics has got to be cleaned up.''

Colin Meyer, 69, a retired teacher and lecturer, says he and his wife have just
returned a postal ballot. He voted for the Liberal Democrats and she voted for
Ukip. He says: "What's going on is a great disappointment. It has changed my
feelings about politicians.

"I was on the Ukip side for a while but I'm concerned about coming out of Europe
and being isolated. My wife is in the Ukip camp. She is thoroughly disillusioned
with major politicians.''

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

KATIE DIDN'T DESERVE HIM;
YOUR SAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 191 words


pounds 100 Letter

LIVING their lives through TV reality shows has obviously put a strain on Katie
Price and Peter Andre's marriage, resulting in their sad split.

And Katie Price's lastditch attempts at a reconciliation seem like a desperate
act to avoid a costly legal battle.

However, Peter Andre is better off without a celebrity-seeking spouse who should
have appreciated what she had, a doting family man and husband who ultimately
lives for his family. - David Tinson, Witney, Oxon

IT'S all well and good church leaders urging us not to vote for the BNP. But who
are they to advise us to vote for the likes of the Labour, Conservative and
LibDem parties? Even UKIP have been at it, claiming ludicrous sums of money for
expenses.

It's a dilemma that could see many polling stations empty in the forthcoming
European and local elections. Church leaders should not get involved in
politics. - David Webster, Taunton, Somerset

IT was great to read that Prince Harry has been acclaimed a "Top Gun" after his
gruelling flight training course. The young royal has really turned his life
around and is making something of himself. - Charles Abbot, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Before the split... Katie and Peter leaving a London nightclub

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 31, 2009 Sunday
                                 2 Star Edition

GORD TO END MPS' POUNDS 200K GOODBYES;
NO PAY-OFF IF GUILTY OF EXES SLEAZE

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


GORDON Brown is fighting to stop disgraced MPs claiming "golden goodbyes" of up
to pounds 200,000 each if they quit over their expenses.

The PM is "absolutely seething" that they could trouser the huge payments if
they cling on until the general election, a source close to him said.

He wants parliamentary standards watchdog Sir Christopher Kelly to look at ways
of blocking payment of the handouts to anyone guilty of a "major breach" of the
rules.

Sir Christopher is carrying out a major review into the allowances claimed by
MPs to help pay for their second homes.

The source close to Mr Brown said: "Gordon is absolutely seething that MPs found
guilty of fiddling could still get these big parachute payments when they stand
down at the next election.

"He strongly believes that those guilty of major breaches of the rules should
not be getting thousands of pounds of taxpayers' cash as a golden goodbye." But
the source added: "There is a fear this could prove a legal minefield."

As we revealed last week, MPs who cling on until a general election before
quitting could get a year's pay of pounds 64,766 as well as a pay-off of a
year's salary - of which the first pounds 30,000 is tax-free - and a pounds
42,068 "winding up" allowance.

Taken with other expenses and the boost to their gold-plated pensions, some will
pocket up to pounds 200,000 if they stay on until the election instead of
quitting now.

But Mr Brown is determined to seize the initiative over the scandal after David
Cameron called yesterday for the police to probe allegations that some MPs had
claimed for "phantom" mort-gagethey had already paid off.

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg has already said that MPs who stand down after
expenses revelations should not get the pay-offs.

The PM plans to spell out further details of his plans to crack down on MPs'
expenses this week ahead of a wide-ranging ministerial reshuffle after local and
Euro elections on Thursday.

The scandal has seen Labour support plummet. It is on just 21 per cent in the
latest Populus poll, its lowest ever - well behind the Tories at 41 per cent and
not far ahead of the Lib Dems at 15 per cent.

Labour came third behind the Tories and UKIP when those polled were asked how
they will vote in Thursday's Euro elections.

PM'S ALLY TOM QUITS

GORDON Brown is tolose one of his closestpolitical allies andfriends in his
loomingministerial reshuffle, it can be revealed. Cabinet Minister TomWatson
privately toldthe PM some weeks agothat he wanted to quitto spend more time with
his family.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Watson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

PETER OBORNE ON POLITICS AND POWER

LENGTH: 1502 words


OPERATION PANIC

WERE IT NOT for the shameful scandal of MPs' expenses, there would be only one
topic dominating political discourse this weekend: the real and growing threat
to Gordon Brown's leadership after next week's elections.

There are a number of reasons why the Prime Minister is so vulnerable. The most
important is the fact that the pact between his supporters and the allies of
Tony Blair has collapsed. This fragile alliance saved Brown when he was in deep
trouble last October, but now the Blairites are plotting again to bring him
down.

The second reason is that the administration of government has simply collapsed
over the past few months. One symptom of this is the continuing existence of
Hazel Blears as a minister.

At one point, Brown said her expenses (claiming a second homes allowance for
three different properties in a single year and paying no capital gains tax on
the windfall from the sale of a flat) was 'morally unacceptable', but then said
he has 'full confidence' in her. This is shambolic behaviour. No prime minister
can have full confidence in a Cabinet minister whose conduct is 'morally
unacceptable.'

Another example of the breakdown in good government is the failure to invite the
Queen to attend next week's D-Day anniversary celebrations. It is inexplicable
that the British head of state will not be with the U.S. and French heads of
state at a ceremony to mark such an important moment in our national history.
Downing Street was responsible for the arrangements and her omission is squarely
the fault of Gordon Brown.

The Premier's current difficulties have been compared to those suffered by John
Major, but the Tory leader's problems in the mid-Nineties (though considerable)
were never as huge as Brown's. Indeed, Anthony Eden's personal and moral
collapse after the Suez invasion is the nearest comparison to the misery being
felt in Downing Street this weekend. So it is no surprise that we are now
witnessing overt manoeuvring for Brown's succession.

Intriguingly, the Commons expenses scandal -- contrary to some lazy and
ill-informed reports -- has severely damaged the prospects of several previous
front-runners such as Work & Pensions Secretary James Purnell (accused of
avoiding paying Capital Gains Tax after telling Commons officials his
constituency property in Manchester was his main home while the tax authorities
believed his London flat to be his 'primary' residence) and Brown crony Ed
Balls, who shamefully claimed reimbursement for a Poppy Day wreath.

On the other hand, it has been revealed that Health Secretary Alan Johnson --
who's made it clear he wants the top job -- submitted an exemplarily modest set
of expenses claims.

In this context, Johnson's comments this week about the merit of some elements
of proportional representation as a way of restoring public faith in the
political system were of major significance.

THE same time that he was looking for a new constitutional settlement in the
wake of the expenses scandal, he was also subtly floating the idea of a
progressive alliance with the Liberal Democrats -- a move that so fascinated
Tony Blair in the early days of New Labour.

There is now the very real prospect of a new Lib-Lab pact in a post-Brown world.
This could take shape either in government or opposition. In government, Alan
Johnson would be prime minister, Vince Cable would become Chancellor while Nick
Clegg could be appointed Leader of the House.

Alan Johnson's manifesto, therefore, will be to reshape British politics in the
way that Tony Blair and Paddy Ashdown failed to do 12 years ago. As Labour
leader, he could form the same kind of Lib-Lab pact that sustained the dying Jim
Callaghan government in office in the late 1970s.

This revolutionary scenario is by far the best hope the Labour Party has of
averting electoral wipeout.

WHY, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MY LIFE, I WON'T VOTE TORY NEXT WEEK . . .

TRADITIONALLY, I am a Tory. Once in the polling booth it is never hard for me to
put my cross beside the name of the Conservative candidate. I've stayed loyal
even during times when the Party has been in deep political trouble.

In fact, I've taken a special pleasure in supporting the Conservatives at those
general elections, such as in 2001 when there was a Labour landslide, when it
was deeply unfashionable to do so.

And yet now, with the Tories seemingly certain to win the next general election,
I have a problem. Not with next Thursday's local elections, in which those Tory
candidates standing for council posts are, for the most part, decent men and
women untainted by Westminster sleaze, but with the simultaneous election for
the European parliament.

It is out of the question to vote for any Conservative candidate. To cast such a
vote would be to sanction immorality, greed, law-breaking and corruption.

There are two reasons for this. The first is that Tory MEPs are part of the same
expenses racket that has shamed Westminster. For example, consider this
statistic: MEPs have access to an annual 6366,000 expenses pot, far more than
the 6144,000 enjoyed by MPs in Westminster. Unfortunately, we do not know how
they spend this money. Indeed, only six weeks ago MEPs (including the vast
majority of Tories) voted to keep their expenses secret. The second reason it is
impossible to vote Tory is that nextweek's European elections offer the first
chance for the nation to deliver a verdict on Westminster corruption. Of course,
Labour and LibDem MPs have behaved just as badly as their Tory counterparts. And
it is not right to vote for these two parties either. Furthermore, Cameron and
Brown have one thing in common. They have both evaded the real issue when it
comes to cleaning up their parties in Westminster. They have focused the blame
on peripheral figures such as Labour's Margaret Moran (who claimed 622,500 for
treating dry rot at her partner's home in Southampton, 100 miles from her
constituency and from Westminster) or Tory Peter Viggers (who claimed 630,000
for gardening, including 6500 worth of manure and a 61,645 floating duck
island).

Meanwhile, both party leaders have protected more senior MPs. For example, Brown
gave a clean bill of health to Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon, Work & Pensions
Secretary James Purnell and Chancellor Alistair Darling. Yet all three are
tax-cheats whose conduct, if replicated by an ordinary member of the public,
would undoubtedly lead to a criminal investigation. These men should not be
allowed to remain in British public life.

CAMERONis guilty of the same inconsistency. While being tough on some
backbenchers, he seems blind to the fact that a number of his Shadow Cabinet
have been guilty of loathsome and amoral conduct. I would never vote for a
political party which includes Francis Maude (who claimed almost 635,000 for a
mortgage on a London flat a few minutes' walk from a house he already owned and
then rented out) or Alan Duncan (who submitted thousands of pounds of expenses
for his garden before agreeing that the spending 'could be considered
excessive').

There are also major questions about the conduct of Shadow Education Secretary
Michael Gove (who spent more than 67,000 in five months furnishing a London
property in 2006 before 'flipping' his second home designation to a new property
he bought in Surrey) and the Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling (who got
thousands of pounds to renovate a London flat only 17 miles from his
constituency home).

As a result of this disgraceful state of affairs, for the first time in 30
years, I have been racking my brain for an alternative to voting Tory.

It goes without saying that it is impossible to support a racist party such as
the BNP. Also, UKIP, the most obvious choice, can immediately be ruled out
because one of its MEPs is facing prosecution for fraud.

This leaves those of us seeking politicians of integrity and decency with just
two possible parties: Jury Team and Libertas. Jury Team is a new political
movement set up by philanthropist Sir Paul Judge, who has an outstanding record
as a businessman and has donated generously to many charities. His own integrity
is beyond reproach and his list of candidates standing next week are independent
figures (his team includes Esther Rantzen and former anti-sleaze MP Martin Bell)
who are determined to clean up politics.

Meanwhile, Libertas was founded by charismatic Irish businessman Declan Ganley
who, in a referendum, persuaded Irish voters to reject the Lisbon Treaty which
would have given Brussels many more powers.

As a result, the British people already owe Ganley an enormous debt of
gratitude. Equally, the European political class hate him -- spending hundreds
of thousands of EU money on a propaganda campaign linking him with a CIA plot
devised by U.S. neo-conservatives to weaken the EU. Significantly, this smear
campaign has failed.

At a time of moral squalor and decay in Westminster and Brussels, both Libertas
and Jury Team offer voters a hugely refreshing -- and, perhaps, the only proper
-- alternative on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

Why a vote for Ukip is a wasted vote

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 888  words


On Thursday, the British public goes to the polls. One thing is for sure: voters
are in a mood to punish MPs from all the main parties for their venality,
arrogance and, in some cases, dishonesty. Inconveniently, however, these are not
Westminster elections. The candidates are standing for the European Parliament
or local councils. Their expense claims are not yet a major issue and, in
theory, the scandals uncovered by this newspaper have only limited bearing on
the elections.

But let us be realistic. The European Union and local government will not be
uppermost in many people's minds as they reach for the pencil in the polling
booth. For staring out at them will be the names of the main political parties
to which greedy MPs belong. After weeks of eye-popping revelations about a
system of expenses which was disgracefully lax, even when it was not being
abused, how can we expect voters not to react in some way?

One strong temptation will be to vote for one of a range of minority parties,
some of which are sinister or silly, while others have fresh and
thought-provoking ideas. In normal circumstances, some Eurosceptics might be
tempted to vote Ukip, while libertarians might plump for the (also Eurosceptic)
multinational party Libertas. Middle-class environmentalists might decide to
desert the Liberal Democrats in favour of the Greens, newly endorsed by Joanna
Lumley.

But we do not live in normal times. The executive and legislature of the United
Kingdom are effectively paralysed by revelations of shabby behaviour, on a scale
that has shocked all but the most diehard cynics. The European and local
elections offer an opportunity for a protest vote, a vote that expresses disgust
at the moral collapse of an entire political class. But there is only one
meaningful protest that the electorate can register at the polls, and that is
one that helps force the Government to call a general election in the near
future. And that excludes voting Ukip.

The recent history of Ukip raises serious questions about its competence, to put
it mildly. The fiasco of Robert Kilroy-Silk's involvement with the party was
just one of many bouts of vicious infighting. It has sought to make capital out
of the expenses scandal, but is itself no stranger to financial controversy. One
of its MEPs, Ashley Mote, was expelled from the party and later jailed for
benefit fraud. (He hopes to appeal the verdict.) Another MEP, Tom Wise, is
facing prosecution for alleged false accounting and money laundering relating to
his EU expenses. He denies the charges. Meanwhile, one of its most distinguished
former supporters, the economist Tim Congdon, has left Ukip, claiming that it
has been "captured by the European institutions'' and neglects its British
Eurosceptic supporters. More worryingly, as this newspaper reported last
weekend, it has "become a haven for elements of the far Right''. In David
Cameron's phrase, it attracts "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists''.

If a vote for Ukip is extremely foolish, a vote for the BNP is something much
worse. We argued the other day that this clownish outfit is not as dangerous as
it would like us to think; nor should its political programme be taken very
seriously, as it is crude and self-contradictory. Yet broadcasters, including
the BBC, are suddenly giving BNP spokesmen more airtime than can be justified by
the party's current low levels of support. It would be disastrous if the media's
disproportionate focus on this intolerant, fascist sect, riven by ludicrous
factional disputes, actually persuaded large numbers of voters that it was a
valid alternative to the main parties on June 4.

The point to stress is not that the BNP is likely to become a significant force
in British politics, but that voting for it is wrong. As Bishop Michael
Nazir-Ali argues on these pages today, the party's message is anti-Christian.
Indeed, it is incompatible with any philosophy based on respect for human
dignity. The received wisdom is that working-class former Labour voters will be
especially susceptible to the BNP. If that is true, then they should think
again. The BNP is not a neo-Nazi party, but it has historic links with Nazi
sympathisers. White working-class voters should remember that their grandparents
fought against, and some were killed by, a Nazi regime that, like the BNP,
demonised immigrants. A vote for the racist far-Right next Thursday will
dishonour their memory.

This week's contests are among the most complex in living memory, in that polls
for assemblies outside Westminster are likely to serve as the vehicle for a
public disgust at Westminster politicians that cuts across party boundaries.
They are no substitute for what the country desperately needs, which is the
opportunity to elect a new national parliament. With every passing day, the
prospect of a long delay becomes more outrageous, as MPs announce their
intention to "stand down'' at the general election, enabling them to collect fat
pay-offs not available if they were to resign their seats immediately. Until
then, some of these politicians are so discredited that their constituents are
effectively left without representation at Westminster.

We have called before, and will keep on calling, for a general election this
year. Meanwhile, we must make the best use of those elections we do have.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

And my vote;
is going to . . .;
Simon Heffer on saturday

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 107  words


I can well understand the inertia many of you feel when it comes even to
thinking about voting in European elections. But the day dawns next Thursday,
and it is worth remembering the threat of the Treaty of Lisbon is still hanging
over us.

I remain a resolute opponent of EU membership, which I regard as a massive and
systematic fraud upon the taxpayer and a lethal weapon aimed at the heart of our
democracy. I shall be voting, and voting for Ukip. They have had their problems
since 2004, but these are nothing compared with what is happening in the main
parties. If you want out, I advise you to do the same.

simon.heffer@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

INTERVIEW;
I'm ashamed by what's happened ... the swimming pools, duck ponds and moats;
David Cameron is dealing decisively with Conservative MPs embroiled in the
scandal,;
but he tells Andrew Porter he is well aware voters want to 'kick the major
parties'

BYLINE: Andrew Porter

SECTION: NEWS; DAY 23 - THE EXPENSES FILES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1610  words


DAVID CAMERON spent Tuesday night at Wookey Hole, before an election tour of
Somerset.

It was here, legend has it, that a brave abbot from nearby Glastonbury told a
witch: "Thou troublest heaven with thy sorceries and thy mischiefs are abhorred
of all mankind. Repent.''

He then turned her to stone.

The Tory leader may not have used the same language when dealing with his MPs
with expenses to explain, but he certainly shares the sentiment.

Because of the disclosures about Tory MPs, Mr Cameron is fighting to ensure his
efforts to change his party's image do not turn to stone.

His leadership ticket was based on change and he has lived up to that promise
during his three and a half years in charge.

A formidable lead in the polls is a result of two things: Labour's nose-dive and
Mr Cameron's success in getting voters thinking again about backing the
Conservatives.

Until this month he was sailing serenely on to a decent majority at the next
election.

A sizeable victory is still the most likely outcome of the next general
election, but the past three weeks have been far from serene.

He admits: "Has this been a setback for the Conservative Party? Yes.

"The sight of people claiming for duck ponds and moats and pools is a bad sight.
It is a setback.''

While he and his team take plaudits from some for handling the crisis better
than the leaden-footed Prime Minister, Mr Cameron is acutely aware that his
party has taken a severe hit.

Talking to The Daily Telegraph at the Oxford Said Business School, Mr Cameron
throws his head back when asked if he saw one of his MPs, Sir John Butterfill,
defending his expenses claims on television the previous evening.

Sir John talked about how he had claimed for an extension for "servants'
quarters'' and a "wing for my gardener''.

The Tory leader's exasperation mirrors that which he displayed when he had to
listen to Anthony Steen, the Tory MP for Totnes, talking about his home being
likened to "Balmoral'' and people's jealousy of his big house.

Among other things, Mr Steen had claimed thousands from the public purse for
advice on forestry.

Mr Cameron says: "I am ashamed by what's happened. You have the sort of
fastidiousness of ministers hiring accountants to fill in their tax returns and
getting the taxpayer to pay for it.

''It never occurred to me that people would or could do that.

"But also, like others, the swimming pools, the moats, the duck ponds. The lack
of common sense and reasonableness has been shocking.''

But with so-called ''bed blockers'' such as Mr Steen and, Sir Peter "duck
house'' Viggers standing aside and others such as Andrew MacKay, his wife Julie
Kirkbride, also standing down at the next election, there is a chance of new
blood infusing the Cameron party.

Bill Cash, the veteran Eurosceptic backbencher, is the latest to have what Mr
Cameron calls "very serious questions to answer''.

The reformers around Mr Cameron will lose little sleep over the old-timers -
referred to by some as bed blockers -heading off into retirement if it
accelerates the processes of cleansing the Tory brand.

"Yes, there's an opportunity, and it allows us to open up the candidates list.

''Several hundred people have already written in with CVs and have responded to
this call. So it is an opportunity. And I want to take that opportunity. But
I've never believed in this expression bed blockers.

"I've always been straight forward that the change in the party was always going
to be delivered by an election that would bring in new candidates.

''If you look at the 140 seats you would have to win to form a government you
will see 60 women instead of 17, you will see 10 BME (black and minority ethnic)
candidates rather than two, you will see people from all sorts of backgrounds so
the modernisation of the party was about the candidates because you can't change
your MPs.''

An accusation levelled at Mr Cameron is that he has been happy to wave goodbye
to old-stagers like Mr Steen who have offered little for years, and even younger
MPs like Miss Kirkbride who had not prospered under his leadership, but shown
restraint towards some of his closer colleagues and friends.

Michael Gove, the shadow schools secretary, was a surprisingly prolific claimer
and an early Tory to be exposed by the Telegraph, but he remains in the inner
sanctum.

Bill Wiggin, an Eton old boy, friend of Mr Cameron and Tory whip, also survived
despite controversial mortgage claims.

So far no MP has gone on television to attack another on a party political
basis. However, this week Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, started articulating
the differences he saw in the responses of the two parties.

He said Labour had withdrawn the whip from errant MPs, something the Tories have
not done.

Mr Cameron counters by pointing out that the threat of the whip being withdrawn
had led to some of his MPs agreeing to walk away at the next election.

He might also have noted that Hazel Blears, whose capital gains tax arrangements
were described as "totally unacceptable'' by Gordon Brown, still sits in
Cabinet.

In response to the accusation that he is looking after his closest allies, Mr
Cameron highlights the case of Mr MacKay - an important adviser to the Tory
leader.

''MacKay was my senior parliamentary adviser, a very close member of my team but
I have to be consistent so he had to go.

"Yes, Gove claimed too much money for furniture and a hotel bill. Yes, he's
immediately apologised and paid back that money and I think that's proportionate
and right.''

Mr Cameron points to "a very, very rigorous system'' in which a scrutiny panel
is looking at the claims of all Tory MPs.

He clearly believes that while he is dealing quickly and cleanly with his party,
Labour is ponderously running everything through committees.

The Tory leader says he was particularly astounded by The Daily Telegraph's
disclosures about the Labour ministers who have been claiming for accountancy
fees.

He also says he cannot believe that the BBC has not followed the story more,
partly because it admits it "found it a bit complicated''.

"I did a public meeting yesterday at the Bath and West Show and I made some off
the cuff remark about Alistair Darling and no wonder the tax system is such a
mess. The whole place erupted. I think that was because everyone in the room has
problems with their tax return, has an accountant and knows it costs money and
you have to pay for it.''

He also fends off any suggestion that by insisting that his MPs face their
constituents he pushed some towards the exit.

Mr MacKay was savaged at a meeting organised in his Bracknell constituency and
was forced to announce he is standing down.

Miss Kirkbride, was urged to meet her Bromsgrove voters, but never got that far.

Hours after insisting that she was fighting on, she also announced she would not
be fighting for her seat at the next election.

The decision came after a phone conservation with Mr Cameron. It was not an easy
one for the Tory leader.

"I think Julie deserves some credit for facing the cameras and attempting to
answer all the questions,'' he says. ''Not everyone involved in this scandal has
done that. It's important that our MPs are prepared to face the difficult
questions - you can't hide away and just hope it will blow over.

"There are ways to do that including public meetings. My meeting wasn't the most
comfortable I've held. But I think my constituents appreciated that I was
prepared to listen, to

say sorry and to explain

how I think things must change. I would encourage others to face the public,
including the Prime Minister.''

Mr Cameron admits he "did know the basic nature of the problem'' of expenses but
lays the blame on the culture and system that has grown since the 1970s.

He says: "Back in the 70s, 80s, 90s, people were told that these expenses are

there in lieu of your pay.

And they're yours so claim them. That is not an excuse but that's where the
problem comes from. MPs were told and behaved as if these were entitlements.
They should never have done that, it's not justifiable, but that's what was
happening.

''When I was first elected I was renting rather than owning a home and I
couldn't find my rent bill.

''The fees officer said don't worry just claim for food. I said I haven't had
any food and I went and found my rent bill.''

But which party is going to pay for the expenses scandal at next week's European
and local elections?

The exposure of Westminster's greed culture combined with a history of minority
parties doing well at European elections means this is tricky territory for a
supposedly resurgent Tory party. However, Mr Cameron is scathing of the UK
Independence Party.

"Ukip said lend us your vote five years ago and what have you had from Ukip?
They voted to allow Spanish fishing vessels into British fishing waters. They've
been a completely useless set of MEPs.''

Will he finally promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, even if it
has been ratified elsewhere? He stays instead with the commitment to "not let
matters rest''.

"I think everybody understands this, if the treaty is ratified by everyone and
the election isn't until 2010 and the Irish vote yes then obviously I won't be
content with that.''

In eight days' time the votes from the European poll will have been counted. And
the first proper test of electoral anger at politicians will be complete.

The Conservatives knew even before the scandal broke that they faced a fierce
struggle to keep votes from slipping away to Ukip. That task has been made far
harder by events of the past three weeks.

Mr Cameron admits: "I know people are wanting to kick the major parties.

"But the way to protest and force a general election is to vote Tory on
Thursday.''

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

Brown considers Lib-Dem deal in 'reshaping' reshuffle

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 420  words


GORDON BROWN is preparing a "reshaping'' of his administration after the
expenses scandal and is considering bringing the Liberal Democrats closer to the
centre of power.

The Prime Minister has been heavily criticised for his slow response to The
Daily Telegraph's investigation.

However, it has emerged that senior Cabinet allies are urging him to deliver a
"game-changing'' reshuffle in the aftermath of next week's local and European
elections.

One Cabinet minister said last night: "We have to be looking at reshaping the
whole Government and not just a simple reshuffle of the Cabinet that rarely
means anything to the wider public.''

The expenses scandal has brought constitutional reform back to the top of the
political agenda. It is understood that a sizeable number of the Cabinet -
possibly as many as half - favour a new voting system, with the single
transferable vote form of proportional representation very popular.

Any move to involve the Liberal Democrats would be treated warily by some close
advisers to Mr Brown, but he is being urged to think boldly to try to recapture
the political initiative.

One radical idea would be to bring senior Liberal Democrat MPs into Government,
the most obvious being Vince Cable. That would involve a series of deals behind
the scenes involving Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader. Last night Labour
sources suggested that any such deals were still a long way off.

Labour is expected to struggle badly in Thursday's elections. A worse than
expected result would add to pressure on Mr Brown's leadership. Last autumn he
surprised Westminster by bringing back Peter Mandelson in a reshuffle that
helped shore up his position.

He is understood to be considering a similar "game-changing'' move this weekend.

Mr Brown knows that he faces a traumatic period in the run-up to the summer
recess if, as expected, Labour fares very poorly next week.

Some predict Labour could finish fourth behind the Conservatives, Liberal
Democrats and the UK Independence Party. A new poll puts Labour in third place
on 16 per cent, behind the Tories on 30 per cent, and Ukip on 19 per cent.

A reshuffle is Mr Brown's one chance to wrest back some authority. He is
expected to move Hazel Blears, the Communities Secretary, and Jacqui Smith, the
Home Secretary. Both have faced questions over their expenses claims.

A source said: "It is not quite the last roll of the dice, but it's not far off.
We have told Gordon he needs a game-changing move if he is to have any chance in
the months ahead.''

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BROWN FACES LOSING TO UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 118  words


LABOUR faces the real possibility of defeat by UKIP in Thursday's Euro vote, it
emerged last night, putting yet more pressure on Gordon Brown.

New polls showed the party trailing in third place among older voters, thought
to be those most likely to vote.

Some forecasts put it in fourth place behind the Lib Dems. Even third place
would be enough to renew speculation about Mr Brown's hold on No10.

Health Secretary Alan Johnson, seen as Labour's best choice as caretaker PM,
this week sought to raise his profile. And it is claimed Foreign Secretary David
Miliband may repeat his leadership challenge.

Labour MPs are so convinced of a "meltdown" that 52 are believed to have opted
for cushy retirement in the Lords.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

National: Politics in crisis: MPs' expenses: Morley is Labour's fifth casualty
as Tory Cash fights for survival: Ex-minister to quit after 'genuine mistake',
while Eurosceptic MP faces questions over claims for flat rented from daughter

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


Elliot Morley last night became the fifth Labour MP to announce he would not
stand at the next general election, after claiming £16,800 in reimbursements for
a mortgage he paid off 20 months earlier.

Morley said he made the decision after a meeting with his Scunthorpe Labour
party last night, bringing to an end two weeks of wrangling. Though the former
environment minister is already suspended from the national party and has
referred himself to the parliamentary commissioner, he has struggled to secure
the support of his constituents. His position was made even more uncomfortable
yesterday when Scotland Yard announced it was considering investigating the
cases of various MPs, including Morley.

He said: "The last two weeks have been traumatic for me, and I have to think of
my family and my health, both of which have suffered." He went on to say that he
believed his name would be cleared once the party's internal disciplinary panel
has completed its inquiry; he had made a "genuine mistake", he said.

The decision to wait until the general election to step down means Morley will
qualify for a pay-off equivalent to a year's salary - presently £64,766.

Morley's departure comes as Conservative MP Bill Cash was last night struggling
to keep alive his 25-year Commons career after it emerged he had claimed £15,000
from the taxpayer to rent his daughter's flat, despite also having a property 10
minutes from Westminster.

After details came out, the MP was told he had "very serious questions to
answer" by David Cameron, the Tory leader, and was spoken to by the Tory chief
whip, Patrick McLoughlin. Cash said he would not stand down, and added that if
the Tories' disciplinary panel found he had "transgressed the rules" he would
repay the money.

Cameron said that any MPs who have used taxpayers' money to pay for "phantom"
mortgages should be investigated by the police and be prosecuted if they were
found to have broken the law.

Cash designated a flat in Notting Hill, west London, owned by his daughter
Laetitia, once a Conservative parliamentary candidate herself, as his second
home during 2004 and 2005 despite owning a "modest" one-bedroom flat 10 minutes
away from Westminster where his son Sam was staying rent free. The Daily
Telegraph accused Cash of paying his daughter £1,200 a month from allowances.
Laetitia Cash sold the property, allegedly making a profit of nearly £50,000,
though the Cash family dispute this.

After the sale of Laetitia Cash's property, Bill Cash lived a "nomadic"
lifestyle and claimed back the £2,500 cost of staying in the Garrick and Carlton
clubs.

The famously Eurosceptic Cash, the MP for Stone, Staffordshire, defended his
position in interviews yesterday morning, saying it was within Commons rules to
rent from family members at the time. This practice has since been banned. He
said: "I do not agree with the suggestion that renting my daughter's flat, in
the circumstances, was unreasonable.

"I had to live somewhere to perform my parliamentary duties. The rent which was
agreed was a reasonable rent and . . . had been cleared by the fees office in
advance. I paid the mortgage myself while my son, Sam, occupied it while he was
waiting to move into a new home."

Cash said he thought the arrangement had actually saved the public money, but
indicated he was willing to repay money if he was found to have "transgressed".

A Populus poll for the Times on voting intentions in the European elections
shows Labour behind the Tories and Ukip. The Tories were down four points on
30%, while Labour fell nine points in the same period to 16%, Ukip rose by 13
points to 19%, and the Liberal Democrats fell eight points to 12%.

Yesterday the business secretary, Lord Mandelson, appealed for a degree of
mercy, saying there had been too much haste in condemning Labour MPs. Referring
to the party's so-called "star chamber" which has been hearing cases of four MPs
including Morley, Mandelson said: "MPs must be given the chance to justify their
actions. I think it's going fairly rapidly, in some cases individuals have
reached too hasty judgments."

But Labour's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, said party MPs who had done wrong
"have got to pay the price for that". She told BBC Breakfast: "(The public) want
to know not just 'was it technically within the rules?', but 'was it within the
spirit of the rules?', and that's the standard the Labour party is going to
apply."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2009 Tuesday



CORRECTION: Accompanying a story about the impact of the expenses scandal
(Morley is Labour's fifth casualty as Tory Cash fights for survival, page 4). He
is Conservative MP for Hertsmere.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

National: Politics in crisis: 4 June elections: 2009 elections: Sleaze and
potholes: key issues in battle for the east Midlands: Disillusionment among
voters may cost Labour the last of its bedrock county councils next week

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1414 words


Back in the glory days of 1997, when New Labour was in its pomp and the air was
filled with joy and great expectations, the Labour majority on Nottinghamshire
county council was so huge that David Kirkham, the current council leader,
confesses that he cannot actually remember the size of it.

Today, Kirkham, a wiry former British Coal manager with thinning hair and a
diffident but determined manner, presides over a 67-seat council with a Labour
majority of three. It would take only a small swing next week ("I've heard 3%,
but I'm not a great expert on swings," he apologises) to topple him and his
colleagues from a county that has been bedrock Labour for 28 years.

And he's not alone. When polls close on Thursday evening in 27 county council
elections across the country, Labour could find itself, for the first time since
Jim Callaghan, without a single one.

Of the four former fortresses it still commands, Lancashire, Staffordshire and
Nottinghamshire would fall with swings of less than 5%. Only Derbyshire looks
remotely holdable.

That's not the way Kirkham sees it, obviously. "I'm confident we'll come back in
a fortnight's time," he says, not entirely confidently, in his office beside the
Trent. He concedes, though, that "the next week will be crucial. Every morning I
wake up, and turn on the radio, and pray for some good news."

Kirkham claims to have met little direct voter anger over the expenses
earthquake currently laying waste to Westminster. "People are being very English
about it; very polite. And our campaign is very much about trying to make sure
people understand they are voting on local government and services, not national
issues."

He publicises his home and mobile phone numbers everywhere; he gets called "at
5am on Sunday mornings, by people out walking their dog who've seen someone
digging up the footpath and want to know what I'm going to do about it". So it
would be a shame, he feels, if dedicated local councillors lost their seats
because of all this. But he's anxious. There are more independents standing than
usual this year, and the British National party could do "quite well - though
maybe not to the extent of winning seats".

Nottinghamshire, indeed all the east Midlands, is something of a distillation of
England. Not quite north, not quite south. A mixture of Labour and Tory, rural
beauty and urban ugliness, agriculture and (once-great) industry, substantial
wealth and great poverty. Rushcliffe, constituency of the avuncular Conservative
heavyweight Ken Clarke, is one of the richest areas in the country; Ashfield
(whose MP is under-fire Geoff Hoon, Labour transport secretary) and Mansfield
some of the poorest.

More than ever, this year the region is an electoral battlefield. Both main
parties have brought their big guns to play in neighbouring Derbyshire. Gordon
Brown launched Labour's campaign for the local and European elections there with
12 ministers, in a move mocked by the local Tory MEP, Roger Helmer, who reckons
the prime minister only came because he knows "Derbyshire is the only county
council there's a chance we may not win."

But David Cameron has also made two forays into the county, with such senior
figures as Francis Maude and Caroline Spelman in tow. "The east Midlands is a
classic swing area," says Steven Fielding, professor of political history at the
University of Nottingham. "It's been shifting to the right since, oh, long
before all this. But I see next week's results as entirely symbolic."

For Fielding, local elections "have become a cipher for national politics". If
the Tories can win here - particularly in Derbyshire, which would require a 12%
swing - it will "show Cameron can still do his 'change' rhetoric. It would make
a few waves and be yet another nail in Brown's coffin, although how many more
nails can that coffin take? But what will really count is Labour's share of the
national vote."

The outcome of Thursday's poll isn't symbolic in Stanton Hill; to many, it seems
irrelevant. A depressed former mining village in Hoon's constituency north of
Nottingham, residents here are so profoundly disillusioned that many have no
intention of voting at all.

There's fury at the expenses scandal, for what it has revealed about MPs'
attitudes, but also, as George Watson, a former miner, puts it, because the
whole sorry business is "just such a terrible distraction from what really needs
to be done in this village, from making it seen and heard and its needs
recognised".

Steve Fisher, 45, an artist from Skegby, a mile up the road, says "people are
just sick to death of it all. Nobody's going to be bothered to vote. Politicians
are only out to fill their bank accounts, aren't they? They're taking the piss.
This village - we were promised the works when the pits closed. Nothing's come
of it. We've been betrayed, and most of all by Labour."

In the old days, Watson says, "you could have dressed a donkey in red and it
would have got in here". Now, Louise James, who runs a cafe on the high street,
says pointedly that whether or not she votes will depend "on who exactly stands
down over the next few days". There's so much unemployment in Stanton Hill,
"hardly anyone will vote. They're just not bothered. They'll get their money
anyway, won't they?"

Liz Moorhouse, in the Co-op, says most people she knows have "given up on
politics, and politicians. Every time you open the paper, there's something new.
And yes, I do think people think they're all tarred with the same brush."

Only Charlotte Sutherland, 25 and married to a soldier serving in Northern
Ireland, says if she votes it will be on local issues. "They've cut the buses to
two a day," she says. "With three kids, trying to get into Sutton or Mansfield,
it's awful. But I don't know. I've never voted, and I've never met a politician
who's kept a promise."

In county hall, Kirkham is proud of the fact that Nottinghamshire got top marks
from the audit commission and its public services are "among the best in the
country". Council tax increases are below the national average, he says.

In their campaign headquarters in a former shop in Stanton Hill, Lib Dem
candidate Michelle Gent and her daughter Dani are stuffing envelopes with
leaflets slating the council's record.

Gent is "very worried" that voters are "just lumping everyone together. It's all
I get on the doorstep, complete outrage. I tell them, this is the local
elections, it's different. But I'm not sure they hear me." The local issues, she
says, are "antisocial behaviour, drug abuse, weeds, condoms littering the
pavement. And potholes." According to the last Lib Dem survey, nearby Broxtowe
will have been waiting 57 years for its next bout of routine road maintenance.

No one here seems in the least bit interested in the European elections, also
next Thursday. Last time, with Labour suffering a war backlash, Ukip took two of
the six European parliament seats up for grabs in the east Midlands.

Fielding reckons Ukip will do all right this time, too. "Have you seen their
slogan? It's basically Vote No - even if no one's actually proposing whatever
Ukip is urging voters to reject. They're the perfect protest vote. Nobody really
votes on Europe, because nobody really knows what the issues are."

Across the county line in Matlock, on the edge of the Peak District national
park, a fluorescent-haired tattoo parlour owner, Tasha Johnson, 27, says she'll
probably be voting for the "keep Britain British party, whatever they are. What
are we doing in Europe? What have they done for us?" However, she knows exactly
who she'll be voting for in the council poll. "Alan Bower. We kept his leaflet.
He's independent. He's good on parking, on keeping local shops open - there's
six to let on this road alone. All the things that should matter to this town.
The place is dying."

Sipping tea in the town gardens, Brian Reaney, 63, agrees. "You see such stupid
things approved. And you have to ask yourself: do we actually have a voice? No,
they're all at it. If MPs are doing it, the probability is local councillors
are, too." You have to vote, or you've no right to moan. "But I really think
people are ready to give up on politics."

2009 elections

7 unitary councils and 27 county councils are up for election.

2,300+ seats are being contested: 1,234 defended by the Conservatives, 493 by
Labour, 513 by the Lib Dems. Other parties hold 78

19 county councils are held by the Conservatives, Labour hold four, the Lib Dems
two. Two more are under no overall control.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

'Serious questions' for Cash over £15,000 rent payment to daughter;
Tory leader's comments put future of veteran Eurosceptic MP in doubt

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 620 words


The veteran Tory MP Bill Cash mounted a defiant attempt to save his career last
night as he promised to return more than £15,000 of taxpayers' money that ended
up in his daughter's pocket.

He used the money to rent a flat from her - even though he had another property
within 10 minutes' walk of Westminster. Mr Cash's future was in the balance
after David Cameron damningly said that the MP for Stone, in Staffordshire, had
"very serious questions to answer".

He became the latest MP in the eye of the expenses storm after it emerged that
he paid his daughter, Laetitia, £1,200 a month from parliamentary allowances to
rent her flat in Notting Hill, west London, during 2004 and 2005. Laetitia, who
is on the "A-list" of Tory candidates, was away from the property much of the
time because she was fighting the general election as the Tory candidate in
Salford.

Her father chose to be her tenant, despite owning a one-bedroom flat in Pimlico,
south-west London, where his son, Sam, was living rent-free. He moved out of his
daughter's home shortly before she sold the property for a reported profit of
£48,000 - a figure he disputes. After he left the flat he stayed in clubs -
including rooms in the Garrick and Carlton - as well as hotels and with friends.

Renting from family members is banned by the Commons authorities, but was
allowed at the time of Mr Cash's claims. Mr Cash, an MP for 25 years, hit back
at the disclosures, vowing not to step down over expenses claims he regarded as
"reasonable".

There had been no "financial advantage" from the arrangement with his daughter,
he said, and that the claim had been within the rules. "I had to live somewhere
to perform my parliamentary duties. The rent which was agreed was a reasonable
rent and the tenancy agreement had been cleared by the Fees Office in advance,"
he added.

Mr Cash discussed the storm with the Conservative chief whip, Patrick
McLoughlin, and agreed to pay back the money. Whether the move will be enough to
save him is likely to depend on the reaction of constituents and the findings of
a party panel examining its MPs' claims. But Mr Cameron earlier made plain his
anger at the latest expenses allegations to confront a senior MP. The Tory
leader said: "Bill Cash has got some very serious questions to answer and he
needs to answer those questions. He needs to co-operate with inquiries."

Mr Cash employs his wife, Bridget, as his parliamentary/research assistant on a
salary between £14,212 and £34,240. Their main home is a country house near
Bridgnorth, Shropshire. Mr Cash said he "personally" expected to defend his seat
at the next election.

The disclosures are followed by more embarrassing news for the Tories this
morning. The Daily Telegraph states that Humfrey Malins, the MP for Woking who
also serves as a High Court judge, has claimed £58,000 in taxpayer-funded
expenses for a flat in which his children have stayed rent-free. Eleanor Laing,
a Justice spokeswoman, made a profit of £1m on her tax-payer funded property and
has not paid £180,000 in capital gains tax, it was claimed. She designated the
property as her "second home" to parliamentary authorities, but told tax
authorities it was her "principal residence".

Who will reap the rewards from the expenses scandal?

Steve Richards, Inside Politics, page 11 Wind in Ukip's sails, page 11

Inquiry launched into MP payoffs

The generous "golden goodbyes" paid to MPs quitting the Commons after the
expenses scandal are to be investigated by the anti-sleaze watchdog the
Committee on Standards in Public Life, after The Independent disclosed yesterday
that the 12 MPs who have already announced their departure would receive
pay-offs totalling £1.1m when they step down, before pensions.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Behind the grins, Labour is resigned to a massacre;
Inside Politics

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 835 words


Which party will suffer most from the expenses scandal? Which will benefit? The
questions are asked with a growing intensity in private by senior figures from
across the political spectrum.

Of course political leaders convey no sense in public that they make such crude
self-interested calculations in the midst of voters' outrage. But they do. In a
minor key they are in a situation similar to when Britain goes to war. Every day
they respond to unpredictable developments. At the same time they dare to hope
for a "Falklands Factor" popularity boost at the end of it all.

The answers to the questions are conflicting. My conversations in recent days
suggest there is a frail insecurity on both sides. I cannot recall a time when
Labour Party members were more depressed. Perhaps they were as miserable when
the Labour government in the 1970s headed towards defeat, but the gloom then was
at least accompanied by an eruption of political energy. Tony Benn lit up the
political stage, incidentally putting arguments about the accountability of MPs
that have now become the orthodox view. The SDP was formed. Labour had
charismatic giants to inspire even after its calamitous 1983 defeat. Now the
MPs' drama seems to have drained influential Labour figures of energy. After the
Damian McBride emails and the house-flipping, some of them tell me they have no
idea what their party stands for any more. According to one senior Labour
figure, any association with his party is toxic in the current election
campaign. Apparently even parties that have worked constructively with Labour in
hung councils are running a mile now they have to face the voters. Like the
1980s there is a strong anti-Labour mood in parts of the country. Some will vote
above all other considerations to keep Labour out. I meet no one from the Labour
side who anticipates anything other than catastrophic results.

Yet I get the impression that Conservatives are desperately worried too. Tory
canvassers are reporting back that there is a "plague on both your houses" mood
as next week's elections move into view. Normally the main opposition would
expect to thrive when there is a lot of anti-government anger around. But now
the anger extends to the Conservatives too, with their moats, duck houses and
servants' quarters.

It is quite possible there will be three headlines after the elections: a
wipeout for Labour; a setback for the Conservatives; a boost for the smaller
parties. For David Cameron this would be very different from the euphorically
decisive headlines Tony Blair generated in elections a year before his 1997
victory. I am also picking up anger from fairly prominent Conservatives about
what they regard as the arbitrary nature of the political punishments being
meted out. They wonder why Julie Kirkbride's career has been destroyed and not
Michael Gove's. One compares Cameron's approach to an Etonian bully, picking on
the weakest and protecting the stronger ones. Another told a colleague that if
Cameron instructs him to explain himself to his constituents, the equivalent of
a death sentence, he will tell his leader to get stuffed.

Cameron has been rightly praised for his nimble-footed response to the expenses'
saga. But I recognise a pattern here. When Neil Kinnock took on his party in the
1980s the media showered him with praise. Then supporters of his victims started
to fight back. Soon Kinnock was condemned by the media for leading a divided
party. He started to complain that the media wanted the equivalent of a
shoot-out at the OK Corral every day of the week. At the moment Cameron seems to
be enjoying the shoot out. But there will be retaliations and then a leader can
appear weak rather than strong.

Possibly Nick Clegg will be a beneficiary. He deserves to be in the sense that
he was railing against the Westminster way of doing things long before the
current crisis. He is also more of an authentic voice in the new fashion for
constitutional reform. He does believe genuinely in a radical shake-up, not
least because his party would be a beneficiary. But I wonder whether the Liberal
Democrats are too associated with the mainstream in the current hysteria, a
frenzy in which reason plays little part. My guess is that the main beneficiary
will be UKIP with the BNP making a bit of depressing headway. I would not be
surprised if the Greens do fairly well.

You will note that in a column about the forthcoming local and European
elections I have not referred to local government or Europe. The omissions make
the case against an early general election. In the middle of the biggest
economic crisis for at least 60 years, we need to wait until we have all calmed
down and then hold an election that debates more than who claimed for what.

Andrew Grice is away

"A thorough overhaul of the status quo is required"

Leading article, page 36

Jenkins' reform proposals are suddenly being seen as a serviceable life raft

David Lipsey, page 37

Letters page 38 Paternal pride is a potent force Lisa Markwell, page 39

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

UKIP gains ground in the polls

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 291 words


The UK Independence Party is closing in on Labour as campaigning for next week's
European elections reaches its final days, polls suggest.

The fiercely Eurosceptic party believes it could humiliate the Government in the
wake of the expenses scandal by coming second behind the Conservatives in
Thursday's vote.

Such a disastrous result would intensify pressure on Gordon Brown, triggering
fresh speculation over a Cabinet-level attempt to topple him.

A YouGov poll of people who said they were certain to vote put the Conservatives
on 26 per cent, Labour on 21 per cent, Ukip on 16 per cent and the Liberal
Democrats on 14 per cent.

Ominously for Labour, Ukip is in second place among over-55s, the group most
likely to vote, on 22 per cent. The Tories were on 24 per cent, Labour on 18 per
cent and the Lib Dems 16 per cent.

An internal ComRes poll for Ukip is also understood to have put the party within
"striking distance" of Labour with 18 to 19 per cent support among electors
"certain" to vote on Thursday.

Labour strategists - already braced before the expenses storm for a battering in
the election - fear they will be worst affected of the major parties by the
revelations over the past three weeks. The outcome could be further complicated
by a likely low turnout which could benefit smaller parties such as Ukip, the
Greens and the BNP.

In 2004 Ukip came third in the popular vote, ahead of the Lib Dems, with 16 per
cent support. Ukip had 12 Euro MPs elected. To repeat that performance would
amount to a remarkable recovery by the party which has suffered bouts of
internal wrangling.

A Populus poll in The Times today had 82 per cent of respondents welcoming the
idea of "recalling" MPs between elections if they had broken parliamentary
rules.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

MPS HAVE LET BNP IN

BYLINE: TONY PARSONS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 256 words


GROTESQUE corruption in Westminster has prepared the ground for the lunatic
fringe at next month's local and European elections. It's too late for Labour,
the Tories and the Lib Dems to get self-righteous about monster raving loony
parties like UKIP and the BNP. Because nobody has done more for these nutters
than our political establishment. The greed-crazed, money-sucking MPs in t h e
House o f Commons are the greatest recruiting agents that BNP and UKIP could
ever have. They are corrupt.

And they are endlessly patronising to the electorate. They treat us like mugs,
refusing to address legitimate fears about crime, immigration and Brussels.

I am married to an Asian. I have a daughter who speaks Japanese as well as she
speaks English. My commitment to amodern, multi-racial Britain is absolute. The
BNP would not want me or my mixed-race family at their fund-raising barbecues.

But I am from the white working class. And I can understand why people who are
suffering will be driven to the lunatic fringe. Because right now our
established political parties inspire nothing but revulsion. Socialists claiming
for champagne flutes at the taxpayer's expense. Tories getting us to shell out
for moats and duck islands. Luxurious fixtures and fittings billed to the
working man.

Endless property fiddles. Why would anyone vote for that? Protest votes will not
cure our problems. A vote for a whites-only party like the BNP is a vote for
hatred. Westminster is about to take one hell of a beating. And they have
brought it on themselves.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BNP Griffin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

SunTalk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 125 words


WE'VE had another fantastic week on SunTalk - and it's all available to enjoy
over the weekend.

Just go to thesun.co.uk and click on Listen Again or download podcasts of your
favourite features. Providing the glamour this week were Page 3 girl Ruth, who
introduced us to the Page 3 Idol finalists, and TV hard man Ross Kemp, who told
us about his time in Afghanistan.

On the politics front, the leaders of UKIP and Libertas got the Gaunty grilling
and next week we have Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, Tory Shadow Chancellor George
Osborne and a Labour big-hitter in the studio to help you make your mind up
before Thursday's EU election.

Also this week, there was loads of fun with all the stars from The Sun.

So put your feet up this weekend and enjoy SunTalk.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

LABOUR MAY BE 3RD

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 167 words


GORDON Brown is facing a bloodbath in next week's European elections, a
devastating report forecast last night.

Labour is on course to come THIRD with just 16 per cent in next Thursday's
Brussels polls.

UKIP could come second in the race for seats with 19 per cent.

David Cameron's Tories are on 30 per cent with the Lib Dems fourth on 12 per
cent. The prospect of being beaten into third place by UKIP could be disastrous
for the PM.

It could trigger a fresh mutiny in the ranks and questions over the Premier's
leadership.

The PM goes on TV tomorrow with an appeal to voters not to back minority
parties. The expenses scandal has dealt Labour a savage blow - smashing its
overall support in a General Election to 21 per cent.

Labour has dropped five points since the start of the revelations about MPs'
allowances.

The Conservatives have a 20-point lead over Labour, claims the Populus poll out
today.

And 35 per cent of voters questioned believe Labour has been worst affected by
the Westminster gravy train row.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 3

FRIDAY: THE 13th;
MP Morley is latest to go in exes scandal

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 607 words


FORMER minister Elliot Morley became the 13th victim of the MPs' expenses
scandal last night - announcing he will quit.

The Labour MP had claimed £16,800 in taxpayer-funded allowances to pay for
interest on a mortgage he had already paid off.

Mr Morley, 56, announced his decision not to fight his Scunthorpe seat at the
next General Election after a local meeting with party activists.

But his decision not to go immediately was criticised last night - and means he
will qualify for a £64,766 pay-off on top of his salary until the election.

The ex-environment minister is suspended from the Parliamentary Labour Party
pending a sleaze watchdog investigation and a possible police inquiry.

Mr Morley blamed the 18-month false claim, which he has repaid, on "sloppy
accounting" and insisted his name will be cleared by the inquiry. He said he
made the decision not to stand again following a "traumatic" last two weeks
which had affected his health and his family.

He added: "I have never tried to duck responsibility for my mistake and have
repaid the amount in full. I understand people's anger over the whole issue of
MPs' expenses."

He became the 13th MP to say they will not stand at the General Election
following the expenses revelations.

Scandal

Yesterday Tory leader David Cameron said MPs who claimed for non-existent
mortgages should face the "full force of the law".

He said Scotland Yard, which is considering whether to launch criminal inquiries
into potentially fraudulent claims, should examine them "without fear or
favour".

He added: "I've said it's not for me to call in the police but the police know
what the law is."

Earlier Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg called for a block on "golden
handshakes" payoffs which could see MPs standing down over the scandal leaving
with up to £100,000.

He said: "This money is intended to help people suddenly voted out of office,
not those who decide to call it a day after being caught with their fingers in
the till."

g.pascoe-watson@thesun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LABOUR MAY BE 3RD

GORDON Brown is facing a bloodbath in next week's European elections, a
devastating report forecast last night.

Labour is on course to come THIRD with just 16 per cent in next Thursday's
Brussels polls.

UKIP could come second in the race for seats with 19 per cent.

David Cameron's Tories are on 30 per cent with the Lib Dems fourth on 12 per
cent. The pros-pecof being beaten into third place by UKIP could be disastrous
for the PM.

It could trigger a fresh mutiny in the ranks and questions over the Premier's
leadership.

The PM goes on TV tomorrow with an appeal to voters not to back minority parties
over the expenses scandal. And he writes for The Sun today warning he will sack
any Labour MP guilty of milking the system.

Furious Mr Brown writes: "There is no way those who have defied the rules will
be standing as Labour candidates at the next election."

Labour have also crashed to just 21 per cent, down five points, in General
Election support. The Tories have a 20-point lead, a Populus poll reveals today.

Cash back now please

TORY MP Bill Cash was last night forced to pay back £15,000 of taxpayers' money
he used to pay rent on his daughter's flat.

The millionaire was slammed by David Cameron for moving into his daughter
Laetitia's London pad - then letting son Sam live rent-free in his OWN apartment
in Pimlico, near the Commons.

Mr Cameron said: "Bill Cash has got some very serious questions to answer. He
needs to cooperate with these inquiries."

Mr Cash, who employs his wife Biddy as a £34,000-a-year assistant, also charged
taxpayers to stay at plush gentleman's clubs while his son used his flat.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flat ... pad owned by Laetitia, left
Under pressure . . Tory MP Bill Cash
Standing down ... Morley yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

CASHBACK;
Tory MP Bill forced to repay £15k exes he paid his daughter as rent

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 562 words


SHAMED Tory MP Bill Cash was last night forced to pay back £15,000 taxpayers'
money he used to help out his daughter and son.

The millionaire was slammed by David Cameron after he admitted using the money
to pay rent on his daughter Laetitia's flat.

He was fighting for his political life last night as the expenses scandal
claimed Labour MP Elliot Morley who announced he is to quit.

Ex-farms minister Mr Morley, who claimed £16,000 on a mortgage he had already
paid off, said he would not stand again at the next election. Mr Cash came under
fire for moving into his daughter's London flat - then letting son Sam live
rent-free in his OWN apartment in Pimlico, near the Commons.

Tory leader Mr Cameron threw the MP for Stone, Staffs, to the wolves saying:
"Bill Cash has got some very serious questions to answer. He needs to co-operate
with those inquiries."

Within minutes, Mr Cash announced he would repay the £15,000 he claimed in
second homes allowance.

Laetitia, 35, who hopes to be a Tory MP herself, has since sold her Notting Hill
flat for a reported £48,000 profit.

Mr Cash, 69, also charged taxpayers to stay in plush gentleman's clubs when his
son was using his flat.

Yesterday he said: "I do not agree with the suggestion that renting my
daughter's flat, in the circumstances, was unreasonable.

"I had to live somewhere to perform my duties. The tenancy agreement was cleared
by the Fees Office."

Asked why he lived in clubs Mr Cash originally said: "I just didn't."

Nerve

But yesterday lunchtime he said: "I paid the mortgage myself while my son
occupied it while he was waiting to move into a new home."

Mr Cash also employs his wife Biddy as a Commons assistant - paying her up to
£34,000 a year.

Yet the lofty MP had the nerve to suggest that he could have earned much more
money if he had not gone into politics.

He said: "I have given up a vast amount of opportunities."

Meanwhile Mr Morley, 56-year-old MP for Scunthorpe, became the 13th MP to say he
would quit in the expenses shame.

Cushy Westminster allowances mean he will qualify for a £54,000 "resettlement"
grant, a £40,000 allowance and pension of up to £30,000.

g.pascoewatson@thesun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LABOUR MAY BE 3RD

By GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

GORDON Brown is facing a bloodbath in next week's European elections, a
devastating report forecast last night.

Labour is on course to come THIRD with just 16 per cent in next Thursday's
Brussels polls.

UKIP could come second in the race for seats with 19 per cent.

David Cameron's Tories are on 30 per cent with the Lib Dems fourth on 12 per
cent. The prospect of being beaten into third place by UKIP could be disastrous
for the PM. It could trigger a fresh mutiny in the ranks and questions over the
Premier's leadership.

Alarmingly, the hated BNP have notched up eight per cent in the north of England
which could mean they win a seat for an MEP in the north west region.

The PM goes on TV tomorrow with an appeal to voters not to back minority
parties. The expenses scandal has dealt Labour a savage blow - smashing its
overall support in a General Election to 21 per cent.

Labour has dropped five points since the start of the revelations about MPs'
allowances.

The Conservatives have a 20-point lead over Labour, claims the Populus poll out
today.

And 35 per cent of voters questioned believe Labour has been worst affected by
the Westminster gravy train row.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flat . . owned by Laetitia, right
Questions ... Tory Cash yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 2

LABOUR MAY BE 3RD

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 193 words


GORDON Brown is facing a bloodbath in next week's European elections, a
devastating report forecast last night.

Labour is on course to come THIRD with just 16 per cent in next Thursday's
Brussels polls.

UKIP could come second in the race for seats with 19 per cent.

David Cameron's Tories are on 30 per cent with the Lib Dems fourth on 12 per
cent. The prospect of being beaten into third place by UKIP could be disastrous
for the PM. It could trigger a fresh mutiny in the ranks and questions over the
Premier's leadership.

Alarmingly, the hated BNP have notched up eight per cent in the north of England
which could mean they win a seat for an MEP in the north west region.

The PM goes on TV tomorrow with an appeal to voters not to back minority
parties. The expenses scandal has dealt Labour a savage blow - smashing its
overall support in a General Election to 21 per cent.

Labour has dropped five points since the start of the revelations about MPs'
allowances.

The Conservatives have a 20-point lead over Labour, claims the Populus poll out
today.

And 35 per cent of voters questioned believe Labour has been worst affected by
the Westminster gravy train row.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

MEP's investment firm staff double up as political aides;
I'm the cleanest in town, says UKIP member

BYLINE: David Brown; Fran Yeoman; Victoria Swalwell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 715 words


A British MEP uses his parliamentary staff allowance to pay three assistants who
are also employed at an investment company in which he is a major shareholder.

Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP representative for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, who
made headlines when he claimed that women do not "clean behind the fridge
enough", employs his 20-year-old niece and two other members of staff at TBO
Investments.

Mr Bloom was director of research at TBO until he was elected to the European
Parliament in 2004 and remained as a consultant until two years ago. He still
owns 20 per cent of the company, which was fined £28,000 by the financial
services regulator last October for "advice failings".

Emma Brader, his accredited parliamentary assistant, and Victoria Skowronek, his
secretarial assistant, were both working in the York headquarters of TBO
Investments yesterday, six days before the European elections. David McLaughlin,
another member of his staff, is a director of TBO Investments.

Mr Bloom, 59, has used his official website to highlight the expenses scandal at
Westminster. It says: "Godfrey Bloom employs no immediate members of his family
on his secretarial allowance, unlike most other MEPs (non-UKIP)." It also
laments the "woeful lack of candour and common sense in modern-day politicians".

He confirmed yesterday that Ms Skowronek was his niece and lives next door to
him in Wressle, East Yorkshire. Ms Brader, 26, a leading point-to-point rider,
wrote on Facebook about their prospects if Mr Bloom was not re-elected: "This
would mean that Vicki and I would lose our jobs and Godfrey says we'd have to go
on the game, but we wouldn't make much money because we are too old!" UKIP
confirmed yesterday that Mr Bloom was questioned by a senior parliamentary
official last year about a "possible conflict of interest with the employment
contracts". Paulo Campilho, head of the parliamentary assistance and members'
general expenditure unit, decided that no further action should be taken, the
party said.

Mr Bloom has become one of the best-known MEPs with his views on housewives,
prostitutes and pregnant employees. He has claimed that "any small businessman
or woman who employs a woman of child-bearing age needs their head examined".

He also once argued that the majority of prostitutes were not exploited. "In
short, most girls do it because they want to," he wrote in an article for the
Brussels-based political magazine The Sprout in 2006.

The Yorkshire Post reported that Mr Bloom admitted having visited brothels as a
Hong Kong-based businessman, although the amount of beer he consumed meant that
no encounters were consummated.

TBO was fined by the Financial Ser-viceAuthority (FSA) for inadequate
supervision and monitoring of staff providing advice to clients and for
inadequate record keeping between December 2001 and October 2007.

One of the company's current directors, Mr McLaughlin, 36, is Mr Bloom's "paying
agent" responsible for overseeing the salaries of his parliamentary staff. Mr
McLaughlin is also paid about £200 a month to provide advice to the MEPs'
constituents on pensions and financial institutions.

Mr Bloom said yesterday that his eight parliamentary staff were all parttime and
were paid an average of £25,000 a year out of his £140,000 staff allowance.

Mr Bloom said: "I am pretty well known as the cleanest MEP in town. All of the
people who work for me are fully qualified and trustworthy."

He said that the FSA fine was for a "technical breach" of the rules on
record-keeping. He emphasised that no client money was misused.

Mr Bloom said that Ms Brader had worked for him full-time until Christmas when
she announced that she planned to marry in June. He had known her since she was
at Ripon Grammar School as her parents were prominent farmers but could not
recall when she started work at TBO.

When she announced her marriage plans they decided it was best if she worked
part-time and he recruited his brother-in-law's daughter to become her
assistant, Mr Bloom said.

Mr Bloom said that all his daily £261 subsistence allowance for attending the
European Parliament was given to charities in his constituency. He said that his
constituents could see the original receipts for his spending.

'All those who work for me are fully qualified and trustworthy'

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Facebook entry in which Ms Brader talked about 'going on the game'
Godfrey Bloom, of UKIP, in front of the European Parliament in Strasbourg
Emma Brader, Mr Bloom's assistant and successful point-to-point rider

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Britain's got Browned off;
Expenses scandal puts Labour behind UKIP in Times poll

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


The expenses scandal has had a devastating impact on Labour and Gordon Brown, a
Populus poll for The Times finds today.

Labour's overall position has slid to 21 per cent, its lowest in polling
history. When asked how they would vote in next week's European election, those
polled have put Labour in third place behind UKIP and the Tories, for the first
time.

All the minority parties - including the Greens and the British National Party -
have made striking advances in the past three weeks as the row over MPs'
allowances has engulfed all the main parties.

Surprisingly the Liberal Democrats have been hit almost as badly as Labour in
both the general election and European voting standings.

But it is Labour and Mr Brown who appear to have taken the biggest hit over the
expenses scandal with 62 per cent of those polled citing the Prime Minister as
the most damaged compared with 5 per cent citing Mr Cameron. Just 14 per cent
believe that Labour is likely to win outright at the next general election,
compared with 51 per cent for the Conservatives.

Yesterday Elliot Morley announced that he would stand down as the Labour MP for
Scunthorpe at the next election. The former environment minister could face a
criminal investigation after claiming £16,000 in mortgage interest - 18 months
after the mortgage was paid off.

He said he made his decision with regret and blamed his expenses on sloppy
accounting. He said: "The last two weeks have been traumatic for me and I have
to think of my family and health, both of which have suffered.

"I have never tried to duck responsibility for my mistake and have repaid the
amount in full. I understand people's anger over the whole issue of MPs'
expenses."

Bill Cash, the veteran Conservative Eurosceptic, said that if told to by the
party, he was prepared to pay back more than £15,000 claimed for the rent of a
London flat owned by his daughter. This came after David Cameron warned that Mr
Cash faced "serious questions".

The expenses scandal also appears to have led to massive support for
constitutional reform with strong backing for measures such as fixed term
parliaments.

If next week's election produces anything like the figures suggested by the
poll, Mr Brown's future would again inevitably be called into doubt.

The overall general election standings put the Conservatives on 41 per cent, up
two percentage points since the Populus poll earlier this month, Labour on 21
per cent - down five points - and the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent, down
seven points.

But a sharply different picture emerges when people were asked how they will
vote next Thursday. The Conservatives drop four points to 30 per cent, compared
with the poll three weeks ago. Labour drop nine points to 16 per cent, and the
Liberal Democrats fall eight points to 12 per cent.

UKIP are the beneficiaries, rising 13 points to 19 per cent, ahead of Labour and
the Liberal Democrats. The Greens rise five points to 10 per cent, and the BNP
is up three points at 5 per cent.

A change in methodology for today's poll could account in part for the much
higher figures for the smaller parties. They were included in the main "prompt
list" for respondents. In the earlier poll they were only included in the prompt
list for those who said they would vote for "another party."

The BNP standing in the North is 8 per cent, suggesting that its hopes of
getting an MEP elected in the north-west region may be realised.

Labour has been heavily wounded by coverage of the expenses revelations. Asked
which party had been worst affected, 35 per cent said Labour, 7 per cent
Conservative, and 1 per cent Liberal Democrat. However, 50 per cent said all
parties had been equally damaged. Asked which of the leaders had been most
damaged, 62 per cent said Mr Brown, 5 per cent Mr Cameron, 1 per cent Mr Clegg,
and 25 per cent said they had been equally damaged.

Even half of Labour supporters think Mr Brown is most badly damaged; and of
those planning to switch from Labour to Conservative 85 per cent think he is the
main casualty.

Voters give strong backing to political reform, with 74 per cent thinking fixed
term parliaments would improve the system, 77 per cent supporting more national
referendums, 82 per cent supporting an American style system under which voters
could "recall" their MPs mid-term if they were felt to have behaved wrongly.

A total of 56 per cent backed the replacement of the first-past-the-post voting
system with a more proportional version.

Matthew Parris, page 17 Letters, page 21

Labour's lowest rating for voting intentions v Gordon Brown 2009 21% Michael
Foot 1983 24.5% Gallup

Most damaged by expenses scandal Brown 62% v Cameron 5%

How will you vote in European elections? Labour v UKIP 16% Times Populus Poll
19%

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: All the figures from our poll, pages 6-7 Peter Brookes cartoon, page 19

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Anything must be better - voters back radical reform of a discredited system

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 875 words


Radical changes to the political system are overwhelmingly backed by voters
after an expenses scandal that has damaged all parties but particularly Labour
and Gordon Brown, the Populus poll for The Times suggests today.

The voters not only want to punish the main parties, they also demand change. In
the eyes of the public, almost anything is preferable to the current discredited
system.

Populus put to respondents a series of proposed reforms to the system and the
public went for virtually all of them. Eighty-two per cent believe that a system
of "recalling" MPs between elections to put themselves forward for re-election
if they have broken the rules would improve things.

Seventy-seven per cent say that there should be more referendums to give voters
a direct say on important issues; 74 per cent back fixed-term parliaments,
taking away from the prime minister of the day the right to choose the election
date; 73 per cent say there should be more free votes.

Sixty-six per cent believe that the number of MPs should be reduced to cut the
cost to the taxpayer; 56 per cent say MPs should be stopped from having second
jobs; and 51 per cent back a fully elected House of Lords.

A finding that 56 per cent support a change from the "first past the post"
system to proportional representation is one of the few pieces of good news in
the poll for Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats. Their ratings have dropped
sharply, too, in the three weeks since the disclosures began.

In advance of next week's European elections, all mainstream parties are giving
ground to a substantial advance by the UK Independence Party - which has not
been free of expenses controversy in the past - the Greens and, to a lesser
extent, the British National Party.

For Gordon Brown and Labour the findings could not be much grimmer. According to
the poll, they are heading for the kind of mauling that can only lead to another
bout of speculation about Mr Brown's leadership.

Soundings taken by The Times this week suggest that no senior ministers want to
cause a crisis at the top of the party, either by challenging Mr Brown or by
resigning.

But figures suggesting a national Labour standing of 21 per cent, dropping to 16
per cent for the European poll, and another finding that 62 per cent think that
Mr Brown is the leader most damaged by the coverage of expenses abuses, may
cause some of them to think about it, whether in the end they act or not.

It continues to look unlikely. But the scandal seems to have made Labour
supporters the most angry. The likelihood of Labour supporters voting is
markedly lower than that of Conservative supporters, the poll sug-gests. Perhaps
surprisingly, the Liberal Democrats appear to have been hit almost as badly as
Labour, dropping seven points in three weeks in the main voting intentions and
eight points in the European election part of the survey. The Lib-Dems in
particular appear to be suffering from the rise of the minority parties.

UKIP's advance is striking, having moved up 13 points to 19 per cent in under a
month. Some of the surge may be because in today's poll - unlike that of three
weeks ago - people were given the names of the smaller parties in the main
"prompt list". Even so, the party's progress will be a worry to David Cameron
and the other leaders.

Even in the main voting intentions poll, UKIP stands at 8 per cent. It looks on
course for a good result next week. A third of its support came from people who
voted Conservative at the last election, another chunk from people who said that
they had not voted at all and a third equally from those who voted Labour or
Liberal Democrat in 2005. Nearly half of BNP support comes from people who did
not vote in 2005.

Although regional factors could have an unexpected impact, today's poll would
mean that Britain's contingent in Strasbourg would look like this: Conservative
28 (+4); Labour 12 (-6); UKIP 15 (+3); Lib-Dem 8 (-2); Green 4 (+2); SNP 1 (-1);
Plaid Cymru 1. The poll finds that 51 per cent expect an outright Conservative
victory - 14 per cent think there will be a landslide and 37 per cent a victory
short of a landslide. Five per cent say there will be a Labour landslide and 9
per cent a Labour victory short of a landslide.

Mr Brown, braced for poor results, is already understood to be planning a
Cabinet reshuffle and a determined attempt to focus the country back on the
economy by setting out how Labour will defeat the recession.

But today's poll could hardly be worse for him. Labour's average support in
polls this month is 24 per cent, down from 28 per cent in April and 31 per cent
in March. The Conservative average is 41 per cent, down from 43 per cent in
April.

Only 45 per cent say they would be certain to vote in a general election, the
lowest proportion since the last election - yet another indication that the
expenses controversy is turning people away from politics.

Only 39 per cent of those who voted Labour in 2005 say they would do so again if
there was an election now. Today's is the eighth published poll since the
expenses row started. In that time Labour's support has averaged 23.5 per cent,
the Conservatives 40 per cent and the Liberal Democrats 18 per cent.

Matthew Parris, page 17 Thunderer, page 20 Letters, page 21

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 2

Britain's got Browned off;
Expenses scandal puts Labour behind UKIP in Times poll

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words


The expenses scandal has had a devastating impact on Labour and Gordon Brown, a
Populus poll for The Times finds today.

Labour's overall position has slid to 21 per cent, its lowest in polling
history. When asked how they would vote in next week's European election, those
polled have put Labour in third place behind UKIP and the Tories, for the first
time.

All the minority parties, including the Greens and the British National Party,
have made striking advances in the past three weeks as the row over MPs'
allowances has engulfed all the main parties.

Surprisingly the Liberal Democrats have been hit almost as badly as Labour in
both the general election and European voting standings.

But it is Labour and Mr Brown who appear to have taken the biggest hit over the
expenses scandal, with 62 per cent of those polled citing the Prime Minister as
the most damaged, compared with 5 per cent citing David Cameron. Only 14 per
cent believe that Labour is likely to win outright at the next general election,
compared with 51 per cent for the Conservatives.

Yesterday Elliot Morley became the most high profile Labour casualty when he
announced that he would stand down as the Labour MP for Scunthorpe at the next
election. The former Environment Minister could face a criminal investigation
after claiming £16,000 in mortgage interest - 18 months after the mortgage was
paid off.

He said that he made his decision with regret and blamed his expenses on sloppy
accounting. He said: "The last two weeks have been traumatic for me and I have
to think of my family and health, both of which have suffered. I have never
tried to duck responsibility for my mistake and have repaid the amount in full.
I understand people's anger over the whole issue of MPs' expenses."

Bill Cash, the veteran Conservative Eurosceptic, said that if told to by the
party, he was prepared to pay back more than £15,000 claimed for the rent of a
London flat owned by his daughter. This came after Mr Cameron warned that Mr
Cash faced "serious questions".

The overall general election standings put the Conservatives on 41 per cent, up
two percentage points since the Populus poll this month, Labour on 21 per cent -
down five points - and the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent, down seven points.
But a different picture emerges when people were asked how they will vote on
Thursday.

The Conservatives drop four points to 30 per cent, compared with the poll three
weeks ago. Labour drops nine points to 16 per cent, and the Liberal Democrats
fall eight points to 12 per cent. UKIP are the beneficiaries, rising 13 points
to 19 per cent, ahead of Labour and the Liberal Democrats. The Greens rise to 10
per cent, and the BNP is up three points at 5 per cent. A change in methodology
for today's poll could account in part for the higher figures for the smaller
parties. They were included in the main "prompt list" for respondents. In the
earlier poll they were included only in the prompt list for those who said that
they would vote for "another party."

The poll is particularly bad news for Mr Brown because the expenses row has hit
all the main parties equally, with some of the most prominent casualties being
Tories, but the Prime Minister and Labour appear to being blamed by the voters.

If the election has an outcome anything like the poll suggests, questions will
inevitably be raised over Mr Brown's leadership. Up until now Cabinet ministers
have been wary of mounting any challenge to Mr Brown. Such a move was being
discussed after poor election results last summer but petered out swiftly.
Although there is no sign that any minister is willing to take up the gauntlet
at this stage, senior MPs believe that any resignations from the cabinet would
be fatal to Mr Brown.

He is already planning the strike back, including a reshuffle, immediately after
the European elections. Tomorrow he will try to reassert his authority with a
BBC interview in which he will set out the action he has already taken on
expenses and his plans.

Asked which party had been worst affected, 35 per cent said Labour, 7 per cent
Conservative and 1 per cent Liberal Democrat. However, 50 per cent said that all
parties had been equally damaged.

Asked which of the leaders had been most damaged, 62 per cent said Mr Brown, 5
per cent Mr Cameron, 1 per cent Nick Clegg, and 25 per cent said they had been
equally damaged. Even half of Labour supporters think that Mr Brown is most
badly damaged; and of those planning to switch from Labour to Conservative 85
per cent think he is the main casualty. Matthew Parris, page 17, Letters, page
21

Labour's lowest rating for voting intentions

Gordon Brown 2009 v 21%

Michael Foot 1983

Most damaged by expenses scandal

24.5% Gallup

Brown 62% v Cameron 5%How will you vote in European elections?

Labour 16% v UKIP 19%

Times Populus Poll

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: All the figures from our poll, pages 6-7 Peter Brookes cartoon, page 19

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 3

Britain's got Browned off;
Expenses scandal puts Labour behind UKIP in Times poll

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words


The expenses scandal has had a devastating impact on Labour and Gordon Brown, a
Populus poll for The Times finds today.

Labour's overall position has fallen to 21 per cent, its lowest in polling
history, only days before voters elect 72 MEPS and 34 local councils in a double
election.

When asked how they would vote in Thursday's European parliamentary election,
those polled have put Labour in third place behind UKIP and the Tories, for the
first time.

Minority parties, including the Greens and the British National Party, have made
striking advances in the past three weeks as the row over MPs' allowances has
engulfed all the main parties. The Liberal Democrats have been hit almost as
badly as Labour in both the general election and European voting standings.

But with Labour in danger of losing all four councils it is defending in the
local elections, it is Mr Brown who appears to have taken the biggest hit over
the expenses scandal, with 62 per cent of those polled citing the Prime Minister
as the leader most damaged, compared with 5 per cent citing David Cameron. Only
14 per cent believe that Labour is likely to win outright at the next general
election, compared with 51 per cent for the Conservatives.

Yesterday Elliot Morley became the most high profile Labour casualty when he
said that he would stand down as the Labour MP for Scunthorpe at the next
election. The former Environment Minister could face a criminal investigation
for claiming £16,000 in mortgage interest - 18 months after the mortgage was
paid off.

He said that he made his decision with regret and blamed his expenses on sloppy
accounting. "The last two weeks have been traumatic for me and I have to think
of my family and health, both of which have suffered," he said. "I have never
tried to duck responsibility for my mistake and have repaid the amount in full.
I under-stanpeople's anger over the whole issue of MPs' expenses."

Bill Cash, the veteran Conservative Eurosceptic, last night agreed to pay back
£15,000 claimed for renting a flat owned by his daughter. He said he would
return the money providing he got a fair hearing from his party's scrutiny
panel. Mr Cameron had ordered the MP to co-operate with the panel or risk being
stripped of the whip.

The Tory leader said that Scotland Yard should investigate any suspect expense
claims "without fear or favour" and admitted being ashamed at MPs' behaviour.

"If people have broken the law in claiming expenses, like mortgage payments for
mortgages that don't exist, should they be subject to the full force of the law?
Yes of course they should," he told The Daily Telegraph.

Asked which party had been worst affected, 35 per cent of people polled said
Labour, 7 per cent Conservative and 1 per cent Liberal Democrat. However, 50 per
cent said that all parties had been equally damaged. Asked which of the leaders
had been most damaged, even half of Labour supporters named Mr Brown; and of
those planning to switch from Labour to Conservative 85 per cent think he is the
main casualty.

The overall general election standings put the Conservatives on 41 per cent, up
two percentage points since the Populus poll this month, Labour on 21 per cent -
down five points - and the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent, down seven points.
But a different picture emerges when people were asked how they would vote on
Thursday. The Conservatives drop four points to 30 per cent. Labour drops nine
points to 16 per cent, and the Liberal Democrats fall eight points to 12 per
cent. UKIP rises 13 points to 19 per cent, the Greens rise to 10 per cent, and
the BNP is up three points at 5 per cent.

The poll is particularly bad news for Mr Brown because the expenses row has hit
all the main parties equally, with some of the most prominent casualties being
Tories, but the Prime Minister and Labour appear to be being blamed by the
voters.

If the election has an outcome anything like the poll suggests, questions will
inevitably be raised over Mr Brown's leadership. Up until now Cabinet ministers
have been wary of mounting any challenges. Such a move was discussed after poor
election results last summer but petered out swiftly.

Although there is no sign that any minister is willing to take up the gauntlet
at this stage, senior MPs believe that any resignations from the Cabinet would
be fatal to Mr Brown.

He is already planning the strike back, including a reshuffle, immediately after
the European elections. Tomorrow he will try to reassert his authority with a
BBC interview in which he will set out the action he has already taken on
expenses.

Matthew Parris, page 17, Letters, page 21

Labour's lowest rating for voting intentions

Gordon Brown 2009 21% v Michael Foot 1983 24.5%

Most damaged by expenses scandal

Brown 62% v Cameron 5%

How will you vote in European elections?

Labour 16%  v UKIP 19%

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: All the figures from our poll, pages 6-7 Peter Brookes cartoon, page 19

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

SHAMED MPS HANG ON FOR A GOLDEN GOODBYE

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman and Andy Dolan

LENGTH: 673 words


TWELVE MPs forced to quit over the expenses scandal will pocket an extra
£1.2million of taxpayers' money because they refuse to go now.

By staying until an election they will qualify for 'parachute' payments of up to
£129,532, depending on length of service.

MPs who quit between elections get much less.

The 12 ñ Julie Kirkbride and Margaret Moran joined the list yesterday ñ will
also be able to go on claiming salaries and expenses, further boosting their
income. On top of all that, they will also qualify for a £42,068 'winding-up'
allowance payable to MPs who quit at any time. This will cost taxpayers another
half a million.

The 'dirty dozen' can also look forward to gold-plated pensions. With more
resignations expected Forced to quit: Julie Kirkbride in one of the pictures
from her taxpayer-funded portfolio the cost to the country of MPs shamelessly
hanging on is set to go on increasing. Details of the 'golden goodbye' windfall
sparked fury last night after a day of drama at Westminster in which:

--Tory Miss Julie Kirkbride finally announced she was quitting after a heart to
heart chat with David Cameron but insisted: 'It never crossed my mind I was
doing wrong'

--Miss Moran, who claimed £22,500 for dry rot treatment at her partner's home,
threw in the towel a minute later, also unrepentant

--Tory Christopher Fraser, who angered constituents by claiming more than £1,800
for trees at his second home, said he was going too, citing his wife's health

--Employment minister Tony McNulty, who faces probes from both police and sleaze
watchdogs after claiming for his parents' home, announced he was paying back
£3,000.

The decision of the shamed MPs to hang on ñ the last possible date for a general
election is June 2010 ñ will leave Parliament with a growing number of lame
ducks, adding to the sense of drift and paralysis.

Last night there was an angry clamour for them all to stand down now and pay
back the money they took.

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: 'If MPs have done something bad enough
to feel that they have to stand down, then surely they should go now.'

Susie Squire, campaigns manager with the Taxpayers' Alliance, called for a ban
on parachute payments for those forced out in disgrace. 'There's no way that any
guilty MPs should receive payoffs,' she said. 'It is only going to further anger
and frustrate taxpayers.'

Miss Kirkbride abandoned a week-long campaign to save her job, saying she could
not face the 'unbearable' pressure of public criticism.

She will follow her MP husband Andrew Mackay into retirement.

He announced last weekend that he would quit after it emerged the couple were '
double dipping' ñ claiming second homes allowance on their two separate
properties.

Together the couple known as Mr and Mrs Expenses will pocket £310,817 over the
next year in payoffs and salary. If they went now they would have to make do
with £84,136. If they claim only average expenses, they will cost taxpayers
around £650,000 over the 12 months.

Mr Cameron, who had faced criticism for not forcing the her out earlier,
rejected claims that he had 'dithered'.

The Tory leader insisted: I have been very firm and tough but also consistent
and fair in all these cases.'

There was sadness in Tory ranks for Miss Kirkbride, who was seen as a good
constituency MP, but relief that her family soap opera was over.

In her Bromsgrove constituency there was fury that her resignation letter
contained no trace of contrition and anger that she had failed to explain
herself directly. Constituents gathered outside her office to demand an apology.

Lifelong Tory voter Gerald Tarren, 77, accused Miss Kirkbride and her husband of
' thieving' and said they should be taken to court unless they paid money back.

--Government despondency was deepened last night when a private poll for the UK
Independence Party showed them within striking distance of Labour at next week's
local and European elections. Being overtaken by UKIP could deliver a death blow
to Gordon Brown's electoral credibility.

Comment ñ Page 14 Littlejohn ñ Page 17

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

WE'RE FACING DISASTER AT THE POLLS, ADMITS BALLS

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 271 words


ONE of Gordon Brown's chief allies finally conceded last night that Labour is
facing meltdown in next week's elections.

Schools Secretary Ed Balls admitted the party is facing a disaster in the polls
on Thursday.

'In European and local elections before a general election, the governing
parties tend not to do so well', he said. 'That is what is going to happen to
us, of course it is.'

The Cabinet's mood of despondency was increased by a poll for the UK
Independence Party, which puts the fringe group within striking distance of
Labour.

Taken by respected polling organisation Comres, it shows UKIP has 19 per cent
among those certain to vote. The party is bullish about getting ahead of the
Government, something that could deliver a death blow to Gordon Brown's
electoral credibility.

Some Blairites are already searching for a 'clean skin' MP to act as a stalking
horse against the Prime Minister after the elections. They want someone with no
'baggage' to make a public stand against Mr Brown.

Their scenario is for a well known former minister like Peter Hain or Ruth Kelly
to make a prominent speech spelling out the premier's shortcomings if Labour's
support implodes.

They hope that would persuade ministers, many of whom are privately convinced Mr
Brown will lead them to electoral doom, to break cover and force him out.

The plotters believe a credible stalking horse would cause the party to unite
quickly around Health Secretary Alan Johnson as a caretaker leader. Aides to
both Mr Johnson and the Foreign Secretary David Miliband both yesterday denied
reports that they have already begun lining up possible campaign teams.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

Grandee's daughter and pounds 15,000 for her flat;
Father claimed rent money that went to Tory 'A-list' candidate

BYLINE: Rosa Prince, Robert Winnett and Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Investigation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934  words


A SENIOR Conservative MP claimed more than  pounds 15,000 in taxpayer-funded
expenses to pay his daughter rent for her London flat - even though he owned a
home closer to Westminster.

Bill Cash designated a west London flat owned by his daughter, Laetitia, as his
"second home'' for parliamentary expenses during 2004 and 2005.

During the period he was renting the flat, Mr Cash owned a flat in Pimlico - a
short walk from Parliament.

He said yesterday that he was not living in the Pimlico property nor renting it
out at the time. It was not clear why he did not live in this flat - although he
has designated it as his second home since 2005. His main home is a country
house in Shropshire.

Shortly after the MP stopped claiming money for his daughter's flat, Miss Cash,
35, who is hoping to become a Conservative MP and is on David Cameron's "A
list'' of preferred candidates, sold the property for a  pounds 48,000 profit.

She had owned the apartment for less than a year and a half, and for more than
12 months of that period her father had paid her  pounds 1,200 a month in rent
from taxpayer funds.

Following the move, Mr Cash, a leading Eurosceptic who has regularly rebelled
against the Conservative leadership, nominated two private members' clubs as his
"second home'' for a three-month period.

His daughter is a former debutante of the year who is said to be a close friend
of Jemima Khan, the heiress.

Miss Cash has served as a Tory councillor in Shropshire.

During the period her father was paying rent on her Notting Hill flat, which was
a 40-minute commute from the House of Commons, she was challenging Hazel Blears,
the Communities Secretary, in the safe Labour seat of Salford in the 2005
election.

Miss Cash, an aspiring barrister and mother of two, is currently seeking
selection for a constituency in which to fight the next election.

Her father, who represents Stone in Staffordshire, said his claims were in line
with the rules and were approved by the House of Commons fees office.

He added: "What is lawful is appropriate.''

Asked why he lived in clubs rather than his own flat, he said: "I just didn't
and that's all there is to it. I was nomadic at the time. It was around the time
I was moving between two places and I was moving around.''

The rules were changed in 2006 to prevent MPs renting properties from close
relatives. Mr Cash's claims are expected to be examined by the Conservative
scrutiny panel.

He indicated that he would repay any money if asked to do so by the party.

Yesterday, three MPs whose expense claims had been exposed in The Daily
Telegraph announced that they would be standing down at the next election.

Julie Kirkbride, the Conservative MP for Bromsgrove, said she would be quitting
following the disclosure that taxpayers helped fund a  pounds 50,000 extension
to her second home to allow her 59-year-old brother, Ian, to live in the
property.

Miss Kirkbride, whose husband Andrew MacKay has also been forced to stand down,
had previously said that her brother's living arrangements had not been a cost
to the taxpayer. She did not apologise for her claims yesterday.

Margaret Moran, the Labour MP for Luton South, also announced that she would be
stepping down. She had claimed  pounds 22,500 to treat dry rot at her husband's
house in Southampton.

She agreed to repay the money but did not apologise.

Christopher Fraser, the Tory who claimed more than  pounds 1,800 to mark out the
boundary of his house, is to step down. He cited his wife's ill health.

Tony McNulty, the Employment Minister, joined the list of MPs who have agreed to
pay back expenses. He will repay  pounds 3,000 claimed on the house in west
London where his parents lived.

Ten MPs were said to be the

focus of inquiries by the Metropolitan Police, which has received dozens of
complaints over MPs' expense claims.

The identities of those being investigated were not disclosed but were expected
to include Elliot Morley and David Chaytor, who claimed interest for "phantom''
mortgages.

Over the past three weeks, The Daily Telegraph has disclosed the claims made by
more than 400 MPs and all the main political parties were struggling to deal
with the widespread public anger.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, called on MPs to delay their summer
holidays until reforms were completed.

However, David Cameron repeated his demand for Gordon Brown to call an election
to give voters the opportunity to pass judgment on MPs.

With European elections approaching, Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, urged
voters to continue backing the mainstream political parties rather than fringe
organisations such as the UK Independence Party or the BNP.

"Whichever mainstream party they [voters] are going to vote for, they should go
out and vote and not allow minority parties to gain,'' he said. "Obviously I
want them to come out and vote Labour, but it is very important that people come
out and vote for the mainstream parties.''

Today, The Daily Telegraph discloses details of further questionable claims,
including:

* Rosie Winterton, the Pensions Minister, attempted to claim more than  pounds
800 to "soundproof'' the bedroom of her south London home.

* Nigel Griffiths, the Labour MP, defended a  pounds 3,600 claim for a
television in his second home in London by insisting that he had to listen to
"Scottish radio'' and watch "Scottish TV''.

* Mark Hendrick, the Labour MP who was exposed as having "estimated'' his
mortgage interest payments, admitted claiming for two properties, in breach of
the rules. He has already repaid nearly  pounds 7,000, and promised to give back
another  pounds 1,000 next week.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

Front: Labour MPs seek lifeboat: 52 have asked No 10 for peerages: Senior
figures expect heavy defeat: Labour MPs head for the lifeboats as defeat looms

BYLINE: Martin Kettle and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words


Gordon Brown is facing an escalating crisis of confidence inside the
parliamentary Labour party as record numbers of his MPs apply to sit in the
House of Lords after the next general election.

In the clearest indication to date that increasing numbers of Labour figures
believe the party is heading for a heavy defeat at the hands of David Cameron,
the Guardian has learned that at least 52 MPs have formally approached Downing
Street to be given places in the upper house.

The MPs include current chairs of select committees as well as past and serving
middle and junior ranking ministers, according to Labour sources. They account
for a seventh of those elected at the last election.

The move by the Labour MPs comes as Brown faces the most perilous week of his
premiership.

Ed Balls, the schools secretary, said yesterday Labour would perform badly in
the European and local elections next Thursday.

"In European and local elections, (held) before a general election the governing
parties tend not to do so well," Balls said at an election briefing. "That is
going to happen to us. Of course it is. That is what happened in 2004."

Others were more blunt. "We are doomed," one senior Labour figure told the
Guardian.

"We're all doing our bit in the elections but it is over for Labour."

Another Labour figure said the keen interest in the Lords shown by the party's
MPs highlighted how disconnected senior figures are from the prime minister.

"They should look at how many peers Gordon has created - he is no fan of the
upper house," one former minister said.

Brown is expected to try to assert his authority soon after the elections with a
cabinet reshuffle.

It was the reshuffle last October, in which Peter Mandelson returned to the
cabinet, which shored up Brown's position after ministers had been in semi-open
revolt over the summer.

But there is already speculation in Labour circles about whether Brown will face
a leadership challenge if Labour performs badly next week.

Alan Johnson, the health secretary, has attracted attention after he devoted the
last bank holiday weekend to publish ing an article calling for electoral
reform.

But some of the prime minister's strongest opponents at senior levels of the
party are sceptical of a cabinet-led challenge.

There is a feeling that the cabinet had a chance last summer to move against
Brown but David Miliband, the foreign secretary, blew his chances with a few
poorly chosen interventions.

Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, seen as the most likely cabinet
minister to resign in exasperation at the prime minister's performance, has been
damaged after she failed to pay capital gains tax on the sale of a London flat.
She has since paid back the amount.

One senior figure said there was a feeling of resignation that Brown would lead
the party into the next election.

"This is the third time we have seen the movie," said a figure who agitated for
a challenge last year. "The expenses row may actually help the prime minister.
He will be able to say these are exceptional circumstances and that every party
has been hit."

Polls indicate that the UK Independence party, which was thought to have reached
the high water mark of its success in 2004, will be the main beneficiary of
protest votes next Thursday. This would hit the Tories and the Liberal
Democrats.

Balls gave an indication of the line that Brown is expected to use in the
aftermath of the elections. "The polling we are seeing (shows) that in these
elections (the expenses row) is going to impact on mainstream parties because it
is probably going to persuade (voters) to stay at home," he said. "That will be
a judgment on the whole political system rather than simply the government."

Balls, who will be one of Labour's main strategists for the general election,
underlined one of the main frustrations felt by the prime minister: that Labour
still occupies the right central ground territory to win the election - he
believes Brown would preserve vital public services while Cameron would impose
swingeing cuts - but it is difficult to frame a debate on substance in the
current climate.

"If you have a serious discussion with a voter about the choices between the two
parties, which takes more than five or 10 minutes, then actually people are very
concerned about what the Conservatives say on the economy and on public
services," Balls said.

"I don't think we are losing the debate on policy. Our challenge is to have the
debate on policy. I was out on the doorstep in my constituency. There is a great
deal of concern about the expenses. But people want to know about some of the
wider issues around public spending, the economy and Europe."

Balls underlined the worries over the impact of the expenses row by saying it
could take 10 years to restore public trust in politics. "It will take us not
just months, it will be a very big task for this parliament and through the
whole of the next one," he said.

The disclosure that 52 Labour MPs are looking to life in the Lords shows many
figures believe Labour will struggle to fashion the debate in the way described
by Balls.

Martin Kettle, page 31 &t;=

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

Front: Politics in crisis: Fury of constituents forces Kirkbride to stand down:
Victory for thousands of critics who signed petition after Tory MP's failure to
convince voters with explanations of expenses

BYLINE: Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 669 words


Critics of Julie Kirkbride, the Conservative MP for Bromsgrove, finally got what
they wanted yesterday when she became the latest victim of the expenses scandal
and promised to stand down as an MP at the next election.

Angry local people outside the 49-year-old's constituency office in the
Worcestershire town cheered when the news came through from waiting film crews
that she had decided to quit. The signs of a broken relationship between
Kirkbride and the voters were already there for all to see. Last week the office
window had been broken and a plywood board covered up local newspaper cuttings
displaying Kirkbride in happier times.

"She is not fit to represent the people of Bromsgrove," said Scott Preston, 31,
an electrician waiting to see if she would turn up. "She has to repay the money
she has fleeced from the taxpayer. I'm pleased she has stood down but she should
resign immediately and force a byelection. We need a high-profile independent MP
because all three parties are tainted. Someone like Martin Bell, Esther Rantzen
or even Mark Thomas could do the job."

Pressure had been mounting on the Kirkbride camp all morning. While the voters
of Bromsgrove added further signatures to the "Julie resign" petition, Kirkbride
took to BBC Radio 5 Live to mount a defence of using her brother for childcare
and constituency support, using a parliamentary allowance to help finance an
extension of her constituency flat for him, and spending £1,040 on
catalogue-style photoshoots for her own publicity - including one standing in a
cornfield in a pink dress, leaning on a bale of straw.

In the end, it wasn't enough. An estimated 5,000 people signed the petition
stating: "We feel that our MP Julie Kirkbride has committed a shameful,
fraudulent and criminal act. She must resign immediately so Bromsgrove citizens
have the opportunity to elect an honest MP."

On a bench beside the petition table was Kevin Morgan, 63, a retired businessman
who sounded off about the controversy to anyone who would listen and drew
comparison to Neil Hamilton MP, who lost his seat at Tatton over allegations of
sleaze. "She's making the Hamiltons look like saints," he said. "This is solid
Tory land you are in, wealthy people, the gentleman farmers of Worcestershire.
She has thrown it all away."

Whoever replaces Kirkbride as Conservative candidate will defend a majority of
10,080, but already yesterday opponents were circling - including Ukip, whose
representatives handed out leaflets along the main street.

After David Cameron said Kirkbride had "questions to answer" and urged her to
meet constituents, Kirkbride yesterday morning considered visiting Bromsgrove to
talk to voters. When news came through that she wasn't coming, local people were
frustrated. "She's a coward," said Kay Hemborough, 43, unemployed, who came to
tell the TV crews of her anger. "She doesn't want to show her face to the
Bromsgrove people."

Then at lunchtime it became clear that Kirkbride had explained in a telephone
call to David Cameron, the Tory leader, that she could no longer withstand the
growing pressure as allegations about benefits enjoyed by her brother and sister
piled up on top of the central criticism that she and her husband, Andrew
MacKay, had effectively double claimed on their housing allowances. MacKay has
already announced he will quit at the next election after facing hostility in
his Bracknell constituency.

Not everyone was happy with Kirkbride's resignation and Conservative supporter
Keith Birmingham described it as a "victory for mob rule". He said: "She has
gone before we knew everything and before the fees office had made its
assessment. She has been hung, drawn and quartered before a true judgment could
have been made."

But the first to celebrate Kirkbride's decision was Louise Marnell, 43, a mother
of four who organised the petition.

"It's absolutely fabulous. It proves that normal everyday people can stand up
and get what they want. This is not mob rule, it's about a community standing as
one."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 29, 2009 Friday 8:42 PM GMT

2009 Euro-elections: Conservatives on course to make gains

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 402 words


We're in the last week now, and I'm canvassing on autopilot. "Yes, Madam,
Conservatives. No, ha ha, we can't actually put canvassing on expenses. Oh, how
droll. Yes, I'm pretty cross about the whole business myself. Yup. Yup. Oh, far
worse in Brussels. If I told you, you wouldn't believe me. I know, I know. Look,
I don't want to waste your time: any chance that you'll vote for us? You will?
Thanks so much."

Every morning, I read in the papers that all the main parties will be crushed,
that there will be a record absention rate, that voters are in full revolt. But
this simply doesn't gel with my doorstep experience. It may be that my
conversations have been unrepresentative. Or it may be that pundits are
projecting their expectations on to voters rather than actually listening to
them. Yes, people are talking about the expenses; but they are voting about the
economy.

I spent today in pale stone villages of Oxfordshire: Kidlington, Tackley,
Woodstock, Eynsham, Wytham. This is Cameron country: conservative, agrarian,
patriotic and strong for the Witney MP and his party. I processed around with a
succession of county councillors, Ian Hudspeth, Charles Mathew, Eric Batt. Their
campaigning technique involved lots of leisurely chats over shop tills, and the
consumption of slices of cake from every available source. Quite apart from
doing our bit for the Cotswolds economy, we got the chance to listen to voters
in a more leisurely way than a doorstep conversation allows. And here, perhaps,
we come to the reason that so many of the pundits are predicting a ragnark for
the established parties.

Yes, people are moaning about parliamentary sleaze. But they are doing so in the
context of their own economic insecurity. What seems to irk them more than
anything is that they are paying for goodies for the MPs who led Britain into
the downturn. "My customers are counting the pennies, my overheads are going up,
I'm worried about my mortgage let alone paying for those idiots' mortgages." And
how will you vote, Sir? "For anyone who'll get us out of this mess - even if
it's your lot".

My prediction? We'll have the county council election results first, and I'd be
astonished if the Conservatives don't make gains. Obviously we won't do as well
in the Euro-elections, what with UKIP and other parties in play. But I've placed
a bet on our getting a better result than last time. We'll know soon enough.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

A third of MEPs keep employment in the family ahead of next month's ban

BYLINE: David Brown; Fran Yeoman; Victoria Swalwell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1286 words


More than a third of British MEPs are paying their relatives hundreds of
thousands of pounds, despite a ban by the European Parliament next month on
employing family members.

The wives, husbands and children of MEPs are earning up to £40,000 a year to
work as secretaries and researchers at a total annual cost to taxpayers of more
than £700,000.

Campaigners called last night for all 78 British MEPs to stop employing
relatives immediately to prevent any suspicion that public money was being
misused. New Members of the European Parliament will be banned from hiring
relatives, but those already employed can stay until 2014.

After the Westminster expenses scandal and less than a week before next
Thursday's European vote, the spotlight is now focusing on MEPs' generous and
largely unregulated expenses. MEPs were under pressure yesterday to publish
receipts showing how they are spending their £3,800 a month office allowances.

The salary of a British MEP rises next month from £63,000 to £80,500. In total
MEPs can receive expenses and allowances of £363,000 a year including a £261
daily subsistence allowance for simply turning up to work. They are entitled to
£183,776 in staff allowances, £87,407 in travel expenses and £45,648 in general
office expenses even though they are provided with offices in Brussels and
Strasbourg.

The office allowance is paid automatically and they do not have to produce
receipts to support the expenses or repay any underspend. One MEP said he had
been told that just a handful of politicians have ever repaid any of their
expenses because they had not spent the total amount.

Conservative MEPs have been ordered by David Cameron to publish details of their
relatives' employment and headline figures of their expenses. To date, all Lib
Dem MEPs with the exception of Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne have published
the details voluntarily. But Labour and UKIP have refused to order their Members
to lift the veil of secrecy on expenses until after next week's European
elections. Labour has also said that its MEPs will begin to publish all their
receipts relating to their office allowance every six months.

The published figures show that Tory MEPs spent an average of £3,312 a month in
office expenses between September and December 2008. Liberal Democrat members
spent an average of £2,900 a month last year.

Syed Kamall, a London Tory MEP, claimed almost £1,000 a month for stationery,
periodicals and subscriptions. Chris Davies, MEP for North West England, was the
top spending Lib Dem, spending £40,881 on office expenses last year including
£9,000 on "communications".

Although party leaders in Westminster have called for MPs' expenses to be made
public, almost two thirds of British MEPs recently voted against a new rule that
the think-tank Open Europe said would have opened up claims to scrutiny for the
first time.

Almost 80 per cent of British MEPs are still members of a lucrative and
controversial second pension scheme paid for out of their taxpayer-funded office
expenses. The scheme has been scrapped for newly elected MEPs after an outcry in
Europe.

Two thirds of the secondary pensions are paid for in supplementary payments by
the taxpayer. The MEPs' contribution of £1,052 a month is automatically deducted
from their office expenses - but there are no checks to ensure that it is paid
back.

Thirty British MEPs have admitted that a relative works for them. Den Dover, the
Tories' former Chief Whip in Europe, has already been expelled from the party
after he was revealed to have paid £750,000 in staff and office allowances to
the family-owned firm run by his wife and daughter. He has brought a legal
challenge after being told to repay £445,000 in "unac-countablexpenditure".

Most MEPs who are employing relatives do so entirely within the rules, and have
published the salary band at which that person is paid.

Brian Simpson, a Labour MEP for North West England, lists his wife and son on
his staff. Their combined salaries are up to £45,000 a year. Dulcie Atkins, wife
of the Conservative MEP Sir Robert Atkins, earns up to £40,000 a year to work as
his secretary, while Stewart Arnold, husband of Diana Wallis, the Lib Dem MEP
and a European Parliament vice-president, earns up to £25,000 as her
parliamentary assistant. Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, pays his wife Kirsten up
to £30,000 to work as his secretary. He boasted last week that he had received a
"vast sum" in expenses and allowances since becoming an MEP in 1999.

"I don't know what the total amount is but - oh lor - it must be pushing £2
million," he added.

Sixteen of the 27 Conservative MEPs have relatives working for them. Nirj Deva,
MEP for South East England, pays his wife Indra up to £40,000 a year despite
having four other full-time office staff and four part-time workers.

Critics claim that even if there is no suggestion of wrongdoing the employment
of relatives reinforces the public perception of the European Parliament as a
"gravy train".

Mats Persson, research director of Open Europe said: "It is not acceptable for
any MEP to continue employing members of their family." He added: "You have to
ask why more than a third of British MEPs are employing their own relatives."

Several British MEPs have been embroiled in scandal over their expenses and
allowances. Giles Chichester stood down as the Tory leader in Europe after it
emerged that he had paid thousands of staff allowances to a company of which he
was a paid director. The South West MEP was cleared of wrongdoing by a
parliamentary inquiry.

Tom Wise, an independent MEP for East of England, was charged alongside his
researcher last month with false accounting and money laundering. The former
UKIP politician is accused of pretending that his own bank account was actually
that of Lindsay Jenkins. From November 2004 until October 2005, he is alleged to
have channelled £39,100 into his own account, from which he paid Ms Jenkins
£13,555. They have pleaded not guilty.

Ashley Mote, 73, who represents South East England as an independent, was found
guilty of falsely claiming benefits of more than £65,000 and given a nine-month
jail sentence in 2007. The former UKIP representantive has since been given
permission to appeal against his conviction.

MEPs who acknowledge that their relatives work for them

Richard Ashworth Conservative Sally Ashworth (wife) Jim Allister Independent
Karen Allister (daughter) Sir Robert Atkins C Lady Dulcie Atkins (wife) John
Bowis* C Caroline Bowis (wife) Philip Bushill-Matthews* C Angela
Bushill-Matthews (wife) Martin Callanan C Jayne Burton (wife) Michael Cashman
Labour Paul Cottingham (partner), 2nd right Giles Chichester C Virginia
Chichester (wife), far right Richard Corbett Lab Anne Corbett (wife) Nirj Deva C
Indra Deva (wife) Den Dover* Ind Kathleen (wife), far left, and Amanda Dover
(daughter) Nigel Farage UKIP Kirsten Farage (wife) Malcolm Harbour C Penny
Harbour (wife) Chris Heaton-Harris* C Jayne Heaton-Harris (wife) Roger Helmer C
Sara Harmer (wife) Ian Hudghton Scottish Nationalist Lily Hudghton (wife)
Stephen Hughes Lab Cynthia Beaver (wife) Dr Syed Kamall C Sandira Beekoo (wife)
Robert Kilroy-Silk Ind Jan Kilroy-Silk (wife), below Timothy Kirkhope C Caroline
Kirkhope (wife) Baroness Ludford Lib Dem Steve Hitchens (huband) Neil Parish* C
Susan Parish (wife) Brian Simpson Lab Mark (son) and Linda Simpson (wife) David
Sumberg* C Carolyn Sumberg (wife) Charles Tannock C Silvia Janicinova (wife)
Gary Titley* Lab Charo Titley (wife) Geoffrey van Orden* C Frances van Orden
(wife) Diana Wallis Lib Dem Stewart Arnold (husband) Graham Watson Lib Dem Rita
Giannini-Watson (wife) Glenis Willmott Labour Edward Willmott (husband)

* Not standing for re-election

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

SHAMED MPS HANG ON FOR A GOLDEN GOODBYE

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman and Andy Dolan

LENGTH: 673 words


TWELVE MPs forced to quit over the expenses scandal will pocket an extra
£1.2million of taxpayers' money because they refuse to go now.

By staying until an election they will qualify for 'parachute' payments of up to
£129,532, depending on length of service.

MPs who quit between elections get much less.

The 12 ñ Julie Kirkbride and Margaret Moran joined the list yesterday ñ will
also be able to go on claiming salaries and expenses, further boosting their
income. On top of all that, they will also qualify for a £42,068 'winding-up'
allowance payable to MPs who quit at any time. This will cost taxpayers another
half a million.

The 'dirty dozen' can also look forward to gold-plated pensions. With more
resignations expected Forced to quit: Julie Kirkbride in one of the pictures
from her taxpayer-funded portfolio the cost to the country of MPs shamelessly
hanging on is set to go on increasing. Details of the 'golden goodbye' windfall
sparked fury last night after a day of drama at Westminster in which:

--Tory Miss Julie Kirkbride finally announced she was quitting after a heart to
heart chat with David Cameron but insisted: 'It never crossed my mind I was
doing wrong'

--Miss Moran, who claimed £22,500 for dry rot treatment at her partner's home,
threw in the towel a minute later, also unrepentant

--Tory Christopher Fraser, who angered constituents by claiming more than £1,800
for trees at his second home, said he was going too, citing his wife's health

--Employment minister Tony McNulty, who faces probes from both police and sleaze
watchdogs after claiming for his parents' home, announced he was paying back
£3,000.

The decision of the shamed MPs to hang on ñ the last possible date for a general
election is June 2010 ñ will leave Parliament with a growing number of lame
ducks, adding to the sense of drift and paralysis.

Last night there was an angry clamour for them all to stand down now and pay
back the money they took.

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: 'If MPs have done something bad enough
to feel that they have to stand down, then surely they should go now.'

Susie Squire, campaigns manager with the Taxpayers' Alliance, called for a ban
on parachute payments for those forced out in disgrace. 'There's no way that any
guilty MPs should receive payoffs,' she said. 'It is only going to further anger
and frustrate taxpayers.'

Miss Kirkbride abandoned a week-long campaign to save her job, saying she could
not face the 'unbearable' pressure of public criticism.

She will follow her MP husband Andrew Mackay into retirement.

He announced last weekend that he would quit after it emerged the couple were '
double dipping' ñ claiming second homes allowance on their two separate
properties.

Together the couple known as Mr and Mrs Expenses will pocket £310,817 over the
next year in payoffs and salary. If they went now they would have to make do
with £84,136. If they claim only average expenses, they will cost taxpayers
around £650,000 over the 12 months.

Mr Cameron, who had faced criticism for not forcing the her out earlier,
rejected claims that he had 'dithered'.

The Tory leader insisted: I have been very firm and tough but also consistent
and fair in all these cases.'

There was sadness in Tory ranks for Miss Kirkbride, who was seen as a good
constituency MP, but relief that her family soap opera was over.

In her Bromsgrove constituency there was fury that her resignation letter
contained no trace of contrition and anger that she had failed to explain
herself directly. Constituents gathered outside her office to demand an apology.

Lifelong Tory voter Gerald Tarren, 77, accused Miss Kirkbride and her husband of
' thieving' and said they should be taken to court unless they paid money back.

--Government despondency was deepened last night when a private poll for the UK
Independence Party showed them within striking distance of Labour at next week's
local and European elections. Being overtaken by UKIP could deliver a death blow
to Gordon Brown's electoral credibility.

Comment ñ Page 14 Littlejohn ñ Page 17

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

WE'RE FACING DISASTER AT THE POLLS, ADMITS BALLS

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 271 words


ONE of Gordon Brown's chief allies finally conceded last night that Labour is
facing meltdown in next week's elections.

Schools Secretary Ed Balls admitted the party is facing a disaster in the polls
on Thursday.

'In European and local elections before a general election, the governing
parties tend not to do so well', he said. 'That is what is going to happen to
us, of course it is.'

The Cabinet's mood of despondency was increased by a poll for the UK
Independence Party, which puts the fringe group within striking distance of
Labour.

Taken by respected polling organisation Comres, it shows UKIP has 19 per cent
among those certain to vote. The party is bullish about getting ahead of the
Government, something that could deliver a death blow to Gordon Brown's
electoral credibility.

Some Blairites are already searching for a 'clean skin' MP to act as a stalking
horse against the Prime Minister after the elections. They want someone with no
'baggage' to make a public stand against Mr Brown.

Their scenario is for a well known former minister like Peter Hain or Ruth Kelly
to make a prominent speech spelling out the premier's shortcomings if Labour's
support implodes.

They hope that would persuade ministers, many of whom are privately convinced Mr
Brown will lead them to electoral doom, to break cover and force him out.

The plotters believe a credible stalking horse would cause the party to unite
quickly around Health Secretary Alan Johnson as a caretaker leader. Aides to
both Mr Johnson and the Foreign Secretary David Miliband both yesterday denied
reports that they have already begun lining up possible campaign teams.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

GORDON BROWN;
Brown 'will not be ousted'

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458  words


GORDON BROWN will not be "ousted'' as Prime Minister even if Labour suffers
disastrous election results next week, a senior Cabinet minister has said.

Labour is facing the possible loss of all the county councils it is defending in
the local election next Thursday. Elections to the European Parliament are also
held next week, and Labour faces the possibility of being beaten into fourth
behind the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence Party. The
British National Party could also win seats for the first time.

Dire results for Labour are likely to renew speculation about Mr Brown's
position.

Jack Straw, the Justice Secretary, and one of Mr Brown's closest Cabinet
colleagues, was forced to say that whatever the results of the June 4 polls Mr
Brown would not be removed. Despite persistent rumours, if Mr Brown walked away,
Mr Straw said he was "not a candidate''.

He said: "The Prime Minister is not going to be ousted. But I have spelt out
that in any circumstances I am not a candidate.

"The Prime Minister is secure in his job. He is doing a very good job in
difficult circumstances.'' But Mr Straw appeared to be pre-empting increased
pressure on Mr Brown.

He said: "The expenses issue aside, these European elections are difficult
elections.''

Senior Tories have predicted that Labour will suffer an effective wipeout in
next week's local elections.

Twenty-seven county councils are up for election. Four of them, Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Staffordshire, are currently held by Labour.

Conservatives predict that Labour could lose all four. "Labour could be pushed
beyond tipping point in local government,'' said a senior Tory strategist.

The Tories are cautious of making public predictions of big gains, but
independent analysts also say Labour is on course for bleak results next week.

Based on recent council by-election results, Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher
of the LGC elections centre at the University of Plymouth, predict Labour will
suffer its worst result for 30 years, losing more than 200 of the 445 council
seats it will defend.

Alan Johnson, the Health Secretary, this week called for a new voting system in
Britain in a move that some saw as an attempt to position himself as a credible
Labour leader.

Mr Johnson is seen as "a safe pair of hands'' that could stop Labour's support
dwindling further ahead of what the polls predict will be a Tory landslide at
next year's general election.

Eric Pickles, the Tory chairman said: "Labour are delusional if they think
replacing Gordon Brown with Alan Johnson is going to get the country out of this
economic mess.

"The only way that's going to happen is if the Prime Minister stops dithering
and plucks up the courage to call an election.''

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

National: Open primaries: Jowell urges giving voters a say in choice of
candidates

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 607 words


A senior minister has recommended blowing open the Labour party's selection
process to allow all constituents a say in the choosing of a candidate by
bringing in open primaries.

Tessa Jowell, the Olympics minister, becomes the most senior member of the
government to suggest the end of the currently introspective selection process,
adding yet another facet to the complaints about political process now being
openly voiced by cabinet ministers.

In a speech to be delivered after the local and European elections on 4 June,
Jowell will say constituents unaffiliated to the Labour party should be able to
vote for the selection of a candidate.

She says voters have been shifting towards mass movements and political parties
will tap into their activism only by developing "more porous boundaries".

David Cameron has, over the last couple of years, already allowed the selection
of Tory candidates through open primaries, but on Sunday he went further and
announced open primaries for the new round of selections that will be staged to
replace those departing Westminster for expenses wrongdoing.

Last year David Lammy, a junior minister, also called for open primaries,
saying: "Carrying a Labour membership card in your wallet isn't the be all and
end all of whether you can take part."

Some politicians favour the idea as they think allowing a wider pool of people
to vote on the choice of a candidate breaks the grip of an established party
machine.

However, although Cameron wants all constituents to be allowed a say on the
selection of a candidate, Jowell stops short of this and instead recommends that
any constituent should be able to vote as long as they have pledged that they
are a Labour supporter. Acknowledging a fear of "infiltration" by opposition
parties, she will say: "It is through widening the circle of participation, not
narrowing it, that we best guard against such risks."

Jowell thinks participation should exclude those who have registered as
supporters with a rival political party, which would prevent opposition party
members from taking part to skew the election of the candidate.

She will say: "In the 2005 general election 380 Labour party supporters came out
to campaign for my re-election in Dulwich and West Norwood. Less than a third
were Labour party members. Many of those who were not had, however, been drawn
into the campaign through their previous involvement in campaigns on a multitude
of local and community issues.

"Primaries, therefore, provide an opportunity for parties to tap this activist
mood - the desire which people continually express to get involved - and link it
to a clear project. I'd thus like all of those who campaigned for me - and the
many more who, like them, share my values - to have an opportunity to select our
party's candidate. I believe that if you are willing to register your support
for the Labour party, you should have a say in selecting the Labour party's
candidates."

Jowell will make her comments in a speech to the thinktank Demos in the
immediate aftermath of the 4 June elections, in which Labour is seen as at risk
of coming fourth behind Ukip. She has been inspired by the writing of the
political activist Ben Brandzel, a veteran of US progressive politics. She will
quote him as saying: "Mass movements open to anyone . . . will always be pulled
towards the commonsense centre. It's why Wikipedia can self-police for accuracy,
why Obama's open forums never seriously embarrassed the candidate and why the
London citizens' agenda called for things like ensuring the Olympic Village
creates public housing - not erecting statues to Che."

Timothy Garton Ash, page 31 &t;=

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

Political reforms must include fair votes

LENGTH: 952 words

ABSTRACT

Peter Tatchell: The denial of parliamentary representation to large numbers of
voters is a crime against democracy

FULL TEXT

Alan Johnson . David Cameron .  must come before political reform. Only MPs who
are elected fairly can legislate legitimate parliamentary reforms.

We need to end the stranglehold that the three main parties wield over the
democratic process, often for their own narrow, sectarian advantage. The
election of MPs with minority support in their constituencies, and the denial of
parliamentary representation to voters who back smaller parties, has more than a
whiff of totalitarianism.

Fair voting means dumping the corrupt  (FPTP) electoral system that allows
governments to win a majority of seats, and force through their own legislative
agenda, based on a minority of votes. We need a new voting system to ensure that
the full spectrum of voter opinion is represented in the House of Commons. Only
then can political reform have moral authority and a public mandate.

The Electoral Reform Society has produced a damning analysis of the
anti-democratic nature of the . It shows that Labour won 35% of the vote but
secured 55% of the seats. Of the total eligible voters, almost twice as many
people didn't vote (39%), compared to those who voted Labour (less than 22%).
Despite being supported by only a fifth of the registered electors, Labour
breezed back into power with an overall 66 seat majority. I don't like the
Conservatives but they were cheated at the last general election, which makes
David Cameron's opposition to electoral reform so perplexing. The Tories polled
more votes than Labour in England but won 92 fewer seats. Other parties got a
raw deal too. The UK Independence Party (UKIP) polled 603,298 votes nationwide,
and the Green Party won 257,758 votes. Neither party won any seats; leaving
their voters totally disenfranchised and alienated by the electoral system. This
denial of parliamentary representation to large numbers of voters is a crime
against democracy.

The FPTP voting system worked well when there were only two parties. But we now
have five significant UK-wide parties: Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrat,
Green and UKIP - plus nationalist and other regional parties in Scotland, Wales
and Northern Ireland. FPTP is ill-suited to this multi-party political
landscape. It thwarts the will of the voters, leaving millions without political
representation in parliament.

According to the , not a single MP now in the House of Commons won the votes of
more than 50% of the eligible voters in his or her constituency. A mere three
MPs secured the support of more than 40% of their electorate. Conversely, three
candidates became MPs with fewer than 20% of registered electors voting for
them.

This is not democracy. The Mother of Parliaments has become the Thief of
Political Representation. The House of Commons needs to be cleansed of MPs who
owe their seats to an unjust voting system.

Although the present electoral system is biased towards Labour, it was
previously skewed to favour the Tories. These flaws are long-standing. No
post-1945 government has won a majority of the popular vote; all have ruled on
the basis of minority electoral support. Even Margaret Thatcher's landslide
majorities in the 1980s were based on popular votes of less than 44%. During the
Iron Lady's heyday, a majority of voters were anti-Tory. The FPTP electoral
system prevented the anti-Tory parties, which had a majority of the popular
vote, from winning a majority of the seats in parliament and forming a
government.

Without FPTP, we would never have had the Thatcher-Major governments and never
had New Labour rule by Blair and Brown.

The rot has got to stop. We need a House of Commons that reflects the people's
will; where the proportion of seats won corresponds to the proportion of votes
cast. In other words, a fair voting system, to ensure that every vote counts,
that the government has majority support, and that parliament represents the
full spectrum of voter opinion. There are two similar frontrunner proportional
systems. The first is the one recommended by the . Known as , it involves
electors voting for a constituency MP by numbering each candidate in order of
preference. Voters then have another 'plus' vote for candidates from a party
list, to elect "top-up" MPs to help correct any imbalance between votes cast for
a party and seats won in the constituency section of the ballot.

The second proportional system is a variation on the first. It is the electoral
method now used for the Scottish, Welsh and London elections - the . Using
first-past-the-post, electors vote for both a constituency MP and for a party.
This combines the accountability of single member constituencies with additional
MPs based on the total vote received by each party; thereby ensuring broad
proportionality between the number of votes cast for a party and the number of
seats it secures. It works well in Scotland, Wales and London, why not at
Westminster?

The solution is obvious. Let the people decide. We need swift all-party
agreement that there will be a referendum on electoral reform at the same time
as the next general election, and if people vote for change, that the subsequent
general election will be based on a proportional system.

If David Cameron sincerely believes in "power to the people," he should support
calls for a referendum on electoral reform.

· Peter Tatchell is the Green Party parliamentary candiate for Oxford East and a
supporter of the electoral reform campaign group,

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

STRAW BACKS TROUBLED PM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


GORDON Brown will not be ousted after next week's elections, Cabinet colleague
Jack Straw insisted yesterday.

The Justice Secretary said ditching the PM following the European and council
polls - where many expect Labour to be drummed into fourth place behind the UK
Independence Party - would be a "solution to nothing".

He added: "He is doing a very good job in very difficult circumstances." Mr
Straw said Tory policies would mean big policing cuts. He added: "The choice
between Tories and Labour is a stark one, not least on liberty, justice and law
and order."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

Britain - No2EU heads to Hull to rally the voters

LENGTH: 185 words


No2EU - Yes to Democracy is holding a rally in Hull on Saturday as the campaign
for the Euro elections on June 4 enters its final week.

Convener Bob Crow said yesterday: "Once again, we have seen the reality of EU
greed and corruption splashed across the pages of our newspapers this week.

"They make the Westminster MPs look like rank amateurs when it comes to lining
their own pockets at the taxpayers' expense.

"It's disgraceful that the media have given too much publicity to the nutters
from UKIP and the fascists from the BNP while doing their best to ignore the
socialist alternative to the corrupt political elite which is No2EU.

"The people of Hull will have a chance to hear what we are all about at our
rally this Saturday."

The rally is to be held in the Queens Gardens area of Hull city centre at 1pm.

Joining Mr Crow will be Yorkshire and Humber No2EU candidate and leader of the
Lindsey oil strike Keith Gibson, Yorkshire and Humber candidate and national
secretary of Alliance for Green Socialism Celia Foote, Yorkshire and Humber
candidate and RMT Yorks & Lincs regional council secretary Pete March.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Boats in port, a pittance for a catch: Europe is not popular in Peterhead;
It is the one corner of Britain that has felt the benefits of Europe the most,
but voters in the North East of Scotland are convinced that MEPs have done
nothing to help them and know nothing about real work, Melanie Reid writes

BYLINE: Melanie Reid

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 839 words


Down at Peterhead Harbour, the skipper of the St Amant, Sandy Baird, is
unloading sacks of fresh scallops, destined for the fine dining tables of Paris
and Brussels. But he has no warm glow for his Euro-customers. Quite the
opposite: he is very tired and grumpy.

"I get £9 a kilo. In a restaurant you'd pay at least £9 for three scallops. The
price I get is ridiculous. What I do doesn't make economic sense and if I was a
clever man I wouldn't have ended up doing this."

Mr Baird, 48, feels disillusioned with politics. "I've got plenty to say about
politicians, but nothing that you could print. I pay members of my crew what I
was earning 30 years ago. Even before I put to sea, it's costing me £10,000 a
week in wages, diesel and insurance. Life gets harder but nothing any of the
politicians do seems to help."

Mr Baird, a farmer's son, is an instinctive Tory voter, but his weariness and
disengagement is profound. His view is one that is widespread in the North East
of Scotland, which, because of the fishing industry, has closer links to Europe
than most regions. The relationship with Europe is not a happy one. From the
fishermen's point of view, the quotas imposed by the Common Fisheries Policy
have over the past 30 years destroyed the Scottish fishing industry, decimated
fleets and families and left the younger generation on the dole and vulnerable
to the lure of heroin, which flourishes in former fishing communities up the
coast.

From representing a powerhouse of an industry, these same proud men are now
dependent on European politicians' beneficence to survive. Not just broken,
then, but reliant on scraps. No wonder that a small pocket of UKIP flourishes
here.

There is a social urgency to preserve fishing, however artificially, in the face
of environmental realities about disappearing fish stocks but it requires
tortuous compromise. Even as the European Commission promises to contribute an
extra £473 million to the £1.1 billion European Fisheries Fund because of the
rising cost of fuel and agrees to a 30 per cent increase in this year's fishing
quota of North Sea cod, it is trying to slash the numbers of boats fishing in
European waters.

No quotas exist for Mr Baird, who works round the clock to land as many scallops
as possible. Can the European elections, in which the Scottish National Party
are expected to capitalise on general disillusionment with Labour, change
anything? "If everything the SNP said would come to pass, who wouldn't vote for
them? But it won't. It's fantasy stuff," Mr Baird said.

Along the quayside, a lorry driver and former SNP voter said:. "They should sack
all of the politicians. Politicians - they're all a waste of time. They've lost
touch. Stuck-up nosed b*****s - they don't know the meaning of the word work."

Work. It is a recurring theme: the way European politicians are restricting the
ability to earn money. Bill Noble, 42, waiting to fill up the fishing boat with
marine diesel, said: "You see boats tied up for days on end because they've used
up their quotas, you see them having to dump fish. There's still quite a bit of
work in Peterhead, this is still quite a prosperous place, but
politi-ciansForget them. They don't get it."

This part of Scotland has the lowest unemployment rate in the country - 1 per
cent - and is doing better to survive the recession than most. Mark Chinery,
from the Peterhead Business Forum, said: "I get the feeling of a general malaise
about politics and yet we are protected by the oil and gas sector and are in a
slightly better position that the rest of Scotland."

Bob Collier, head of Aberdeen and Grampian Chamber of Commerce, said that
European funding was evident everywhere in rural areas, most prominently in road
improvements. "Everywhere you drive, you see signs saying, 'Partially funded by
the EU.' We have had the luck of the draw with oil and gas and there's really a
sense of get up and go in the region."

Scotland, which is a single European constituency, is losing one MEP in these
elections, going down from seven to six. Who will lose out? This time the North
East will be key to the results, not merely because it is the heartland of Alex
Salmond, the First Minister. The SNP wants the return of fisheries management
powers to Scotland and sees the Common Fisheries Policy as an unmitigated
disaster, a tune that plays well to seafarers.

What of the fringe parties? "I used to vote UKIP," said Paul Jennings, a shoe
repairer and independent church minister in Peterhead, "but this time I'll
probably write on the ballot paper 'None of the rogues above' and spoil the
paper."

That sense of anti-Europeanism lingers. "I think we should stick together
against Europe - Scottish and English - and that's it," one elderly lady said.
Other shoppers were more dismissive: "No, we're not voting. They should get rid
of all politicians."

David Martin, the number one candidate on the Labour European election list, may
have put his finger on it when he said: "I think in Scotland the protest vote
will be the stay-at-home party."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tanker driver Bill Noble says EU quotas have crippled Scots fishing
Fisherman Sandy Baird aboard his boat: "I've plenty to say about politicians -
but nothing that you could print"
LEX BALLANTYNE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

National: Grandson rounds on 'monstrous' use of Churchill image by BNP

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 358 words


Winston Churchill's grandson has denounced the leader of the British National
party, Nick Griffin, for using an image of the wartime leader and quoting one of
his most famous speeches, in an election broadcast shown last night.

In the four-minute film Griffin adopts part of Churchill's famous "blood, toil,
tears and sweat" speech to promote the BNP manifesto, and uses footage of
Churchill and British war graves.

Churchill's family say that the BNP is trying to hijack his legacy. His
grandson, Nicholas Soames, said it was "offensive and disgusting," and he had
consulted lawyers in an attempt to force the Electoral Commission to stop the
broadcast.

"It's a monstrous thing to do," said Soames, Tory MP for Mid-Sussex. "Most
sensible people will be disgusted by the BNP's use of Churchill's face and
imagery purporting to claim that my grandfather would have supported their
policies."

Griffin was also accused of hypocrisy over his use of second world war footage,
after it emerged that an article which appeared in a rightwing magazine he
edited in the 1990s appeared to praise the wartime exploits of Hitler's SS.

"For him to evoke the memory of Churchill and our second world war servicemen is
a disgrace," said a spokesman for Searchlight, the anti-racist organisation.

The BNP's deputy chairman. Simon Darby, denied Griffin supported the SS, and
defended the use of Churchill. "It is very relevant to what is happening today,"
he said. "I am extremely upset at what is happening to the country. What was the
point of fighting the second world war, if this is where we are going to end
up?"

There is evidence the BNP is failing to cash in on the public anger with
mainstream parties over MPs' expenses. The party lagged behind Ukip and the
Greens in a Guardian ICM poll at the weekend with 1% of the vote - despite
initial predictions that next week's elections would result in up to seven BNP
MEPs.

"Griffin has tried to build a presidential style BNP election strategy around
Nick Griffin, and the tactic has backfired spectacularly," said a Searchlight
spokesman. But a low turnout could still see the BNP make a breakthrough next
week, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

Donations to Labour party fall again

LENGTH: 283 words

ABSTRACT

Labour receives only half as much money as the Conservatives in the first three
months of the year

FULL TEXT

Donations to the Labour party have dropped to the second lowest level since
returns to the Electoral Commission began in 2001, according to figures released
by the political funding watchdog today.

They show the party received donations amounting to £2.9m, just over half the
amount given to the Tories, who received £5.5m for the first quarter of the
year.

The Tories' figure includes £1.2m donated from public funds, compared with
£100,000 to Labour. Most of Labour's funds are coming from trade unions.

Labour donations fell from the previous two quarters. They totalled £7.6m
between July and September last year falling to £3.2m between October and
December.

The figures released before the latest revelations on MPs' expenses show that
overall donations to political parties remained stable at about £11.2m but they
mask changes in political support.

Labour will also have to explain to the Electoral Commission why it failed to
report a pre-Christmas present of £500,000 from Lord Sainsbury during the last
quarter.

The figures show that Ukip, the United Kingdom Independence party, had raised
over £468,000 from donors in the first three months of the year to fight the
European elections. These included a £100,000 donation from a former Tory donor,
spread betting millionaire Stuart Wheeler. Christopher Gill, a former Tory MP,
also gave £18,000 in cash and kind to Ukip.

The Liberal Democrats received more than £1.1m - some £573,000 from public
funds.

There were no big individual donors to any of the major parties in the first
part of the year - the largest sums being £100,000.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP COULDN'T MAKE IT UP;
OUR MAN IN THE CORRIDORS OF POWER..

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 91 words


UKIP up in the polls because other parties are tainted by sleaze - that's the
irony of ironies.

The anti-Brussels party's ridden the Euro gravy train like few others.

Leader Nigel Farage cheerfully admits "pushing pounds 2m" in expenses since
1999. MEP Ashley Mote was expelled from the party and jailed for fiddling
benefits.

Another MEP elected under UKIP's banner is charged with money laundering. Yet
it's set to do well in tomorrow week's European elections.

Farage can't believe his luck. At least he had the good grace to laugh when I
ribbed him.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Sun Talk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 45 words


HOW will you vote in next week's EU elections? Yesterday we had Libertas leader
Robin Matthews in the studio, today UKIP leader Nigel Farage, left, gets the
Gaunty grilling. And you can join in on 020 33 64 7000, or text or email your
queries. It's your vote ... use it.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Purge on perks hits big game for MEPs

BYLINE: BRIAN FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 261 words


BRITISH Euro MPs offered free seats at tonight's Champions League final may shun
them - because it could cost them their places on the Brussels gravy train.

MEPs have been warned by party leaders Gordon Brown and David Cameron that they
have to publicly declare match tickets as part of the war on sleaze.

Now they must decide whether to attend the clash between Manchester United and
Barcelona and risk voters' claims of freeloading.

A source said: "The last thing they want is TV viewers spotting them in an
executive box days before European elections."

The UK Independence Party was warned yesterday it faced a backlash for failing
to follow the Tories and Labour by giving expenses details. UKIP, led by Nigel
Farage, has been plagued by fraud and corruption scandals since winning 12 Euro
seats in 2004.

A senior insider said: "The EU is deemed to be a gravy train. I believe that a
lot of our MEPs have forgotten that."

Mr Farage admitted he could not prove how he had spent his own expenses and
allowances.

And the party refused to release details of how its MEPs had spent taxpayers'
money when The Sun challenged it as part of our campaign against Euro fiddling.

UKIP's popularity soared after it claimed their goal was to save Britain from
fraud and corruption in Brussels.

But of the dozen MEPs elected in 2004, one was sent to prison for housing fraud
and another is being prosecuted for money laundering.

Four of the 12 now no longer take the whip amid disillusionment.

High profile chiefs Roger Knapman and TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk have also
quit the party.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chief ... Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

HOW WE PAID FOR THE CHANCELLOR'S TAX ACCOUNTANT

BYLINE: BY DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 1031 words


NEARLY half of the Cabinet including the Chancellor of the Exchequer were
accused of double standards yesterday after charging the taxpayer for
accountancy advice on how to fill in their personal tax returns.

Alistair Darling, guardian of the nation's finances and steward of the tax
system, received £1,400 over two years and was one of nine ministers to make
such claims - a perk denied to ordinary voters.

The revelations are contained in leaked documents detailing MPs' claims for
office costs, which are supposed to be used to run their constituency and
Westminster offices.

In total, members of Gordon Brown's top team claimed £11,000 for tax advice.

Communities Secretary Hazel Blears, Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and Home
Secretary Jacqui Smith ñ all of whom are under fire for their claims under the
second-home allowance - were found to have milked the office costs system as
well.

Mr Hoon had the largest claim for tax advice, at £3,000. He, like Miss Blears
and Mr Purnell, has already faced criticism for switching his second-home
allowance between properties to avoid paying Capital Gains Tax on the sale of a
London flat which had been part-funded by the taxpayer.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband, Environment Secretary Hilary Benn, Work and
Pensions Secretary James Purnell and International Development Secretary Douglas
Alexander also made claims for tax advice.

The accountancy claims are highly controversial since ordinary taxpayers are not
allowed to claim accountancy costs as a legitimate business expense when filling
in self-assessment tax forms.

The Green Book, which governs MPs' expenses, says that they can claim for
accountancy bills but only in so far as it relates to their work as an MP.

Because in completing their personal tax returns many have to include their
office details, this gives them the chance to receive help denied to others.

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: 'There is
clearly a double standard here. Anyone else who files a self-assessment tax
return can't use the cost of accountancy advice as a benefit.'

The Chancellor said: 'Like many MPs I employed an accountant to prepare tax
returns for each of the years in question to ensure that the correct amount of
tax was paid in respect of my office costs.'

Last night it emerged that four Labour MPs politicians used a colleague's
husband to give professional advice on their tax affairs - and put it on
expenses.

They employed Dennis Bates - the husband of Sheffield MP Meg Munn - and charged
the cost to expenses, according to the Daily Telegraph.

John Healey, Jim Knight, Gillian Merron and Angela Smith issued a joint
statement defending their actions.

It said: 'Dennis Bates is eminently qualified to provide advice to make sure
Members of Parliament are properly meeting all their tax liabilities in relation
to office costs and allowances.

'The Green Book states specifically that professional advice, for example on tax
and legal matters, is an allowable expense.

A Labour MP twice punished for failing to pay his council tax on time charged
the fines to the taxpayer.

The first time Iain Davidson missed the deadline was in May 2005, incurring a
fine of £55 for non-payment. He made the same mistake in February 2007 when the
council added £65 to his bill. On both occasions the Glasgow South West MP
billed the House of Commons Fees Office for the full amount, including the
fines.

GRASS-ROOTS ANGER

A GRASS-ROOTS campaign to force corrupt and greedy MPs to face voters if they
have abused their expenses will be launched today.

It will be modelled on the U.S., where a local petition can force elected
officials to go through a new election before their term of office has expired.

In California, a recall election is triggered if 12 per cent of eligible voters
sign a petition within 160 days.

A new campaign group called 38 Degrees will use the internet to drum up public
support for the proposal, using methods pioneered by MoveOn.org, an American
organisation which inspired millions to vote for Barack Obama as President.

38 Degrees is named after the tipping point at which avalanches form.

Executive director David Babbs said: 'People need new ways of holding MPs to
account to restore trust in politics.

'The message of 38 Degrees is, "Don't get mad, get even".'

GADGET GRABBERS

CABINET ministers have spent thousands of pounds from their office costs
allowance on gadgets.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, pictured, claimed £1,600 for three digital cameras
and a camcorder over three years.

Work and Pensions Secretary James Purnell claimed £223 for a camera, £247 for
3,000 'flexible fridge magnets' and £42 for books ordered from Amazon, including
Modern Conservatism by David Willetts.

The Leader of the Commons, Harriet Harman, claimed £230 for a Canon Ixus digital
camera. She also tried to claim £300 for a trip to Sierra Leone but was turned
down.

The Chief Secretary to the

Treasury, Yvette Cooper, claimed £225 for a digital camera and £1,200 for 30,000
calendars.

International Development Secretary Douglas Alexander claimed £230 for a digital
camera and £470 for 8,000 calendars. He was turned down, however, after claiming
£750 for 4,000

Christmas cards.

MEPS' SECRECY VOTE

SIX out of ten British MEPs have voted to keep details about their expenses
secret.

A similar majority voted against financial disciplinary measures for members
found guilty of misusing taxpayers' money, and they also voted to keep it a
secret when colleagues are told to pay back cash.

In all, only 24 per cent of British members voted to make expenses public,
against 60 per cent for secrecy. The remaining 16 per cent were absent or did
not bother to vote.

The findings are contained in a league table by the Open Europe think tank,
which ranks how all 785 MEPs performed on promoting transparency and reform over
the last five-year term.

Labour and the Tories both ranked behind the Greens, SNP and Lib Dems in overall
support for transparency.

The British MEPs with the best record are Green leader Caroline Lucas, Tory
Struan Stevenson and the SNP's Alyn Smith.

Five of the ten British MEPs with the worst record are members of the UK
Independence Party, including leader Nigel Farage.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

Reply Letters and emails: Early election wont reform politics

BYLINE: W Stephen Gilbert

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 106 words


* There is a strong mood among the electorate of "a plague on both your houses
and your second homes too". Perhaps the Commons intake of BNP and/or Ukip
members would be so great that the Tories could only take a ruling role by going
into coalition with one of these parties. In such a case, the Tories might need
to ditch Mr Cameron in favour of some leader more amenable to the extreme right.
There's your nightmare scenario, then: Eric Pickles as prime minister, Nigel
Farage as foreign secretary, Nick Griffin as home secretary and - oh, let's see
- Sir Fred Goodwin as chancellor. Bring it on, Dave.

W Stephen Gilbert

Corsham, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

letters@independent.co.uk;
Labour and Tories let in the anti-EU lunatic fringe

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1977 words


While the expenses scandal has dominated the hearts and minds of MPs, the two
major political parties appear to have overlooked the fact that an election is
taking place next week which actually affects how we, the people, are
represented in Europe.

To his shame, David Cameron has proposed that voters use the occasion as a
referendum on the track record of the Labour Party, and in the Tory election
broadcast on TV he managed to avoid the "E" word completely. On the other hand
Gordon Brown appeared to whisper the dread word just once for fear of upsetting
the Eurosceptic wing of his party too much and thereby avoided causing yet
further dissent in the ranks. Of the three main parties in Parliament only the
Liberal Democrats have been prepared to canvass on European issues.

Ironically it has been the myopic lunatic-fringe parties such as the UK
Independence Party, the English Democrats Party and Libertas who have been only
too happy to speak at length about Europe. Various spokes men have repeated ad
nauseam well-known myths and explained how they intend to get "us" out of Europe
and restore democracy to the UK, whatever that might mean.

The unfolding expenses scandal has already made the UK and its Parliament appear
particularly undignified and UKIP have already shown what fools they can make of
themselves in the European Parliament. If the Labour Party in particular, and
other pro-Europeans wish to see the country dragged further through the mud they
only have to sit back and do nothing for the next 10 days or so and their worst
nightmares will be fulfilled.

Peter Coghlan

Broadstone, Dorset

Better a burglar than an MP

As a 94-year-old burglary victim and a taxpayer for nearly 70 years, I find the
behaviour of MPs over their expenses disgusting.

The teenager who broke into my home and took a few pounds thought the house was
empty and no doubt thought I could claim on my insurance. He caused no damage
and was driven by an addiction, and when he was caught he admitted everything
and has been sent to prison for his crime.

Compare that with our MPs, who have defrauded the taxpayer of tens of thousands
of pounds, exploiting a system to line their own pockets. At worst they are
playing the property market at our expense, at best they seem to be expecting us
to pay for everything from dogfood to wide-screen TVs. These are educated,
well-paid people in positions of trust and responsibility, keen to tell other
people how to behave and able to make laws which affect every person in the
land.

Who is the bigger villain?

Patricia Stanley

Powys

Those electors concerned over MPs' expenses should realise that MPs are not paid
as well as many other professional positions. A district judge in a county court
earns around £75,000 per annum, and there are considerably fewer MPs than
district judges. Most heads of district councils and health authorities earn in
excess of £100,000 per annum. Wake up, some of you.

Henry Page

Newhaven, east Sussex

I think that people are fed up with hearing the continual message from MPs that
they deserve to be paid more than the currently miserly £63,000, based on their
skills and experience. This is patent nonsense.

The current parliament is probably one of the worst performing in history. All
vacancies in Parliament are heavily over-subscribed; this suggests that, if
anything, we are paying these people too much.

The idea that there could be some sort of terrible brain-drain to the private
sector of highly able professional MPs is laughable. If they really believe that
there are so many attractive options available, then let them go, if they can.

James Kellar

Ham, Wiltshire

The allowances scandal has reassured me that the Tories are still the same old
Tories. Unfortunately it has also confirmed that New Labour, in more ways than I
had imagined, are really just another Tory party.

David Grinnell

Sheffield

Relationships with students

Yasmin Alibhai-Brown ("A male poet wouldn't have been blamed for rough tactics",
25 May) is out of date in her picture of relationships between staff and
students in higher education.

Since about the early 1990s, institutions have tended to have policies in place,
not only on sexual harassment but on close personal relationships of any kind
between a member of staff and a student.

Typically, these would have to be declared to a head of department, and steps
would be taken to ensure that the member of staff did not mark or supervise the
student's work. Not to declare a close personal relationship would be a serious
disciplinary matter. Derek Walcott's "misdemeanours" took place decades ago, at
a time when the cultural climate in academia was much more forgiving towards
such relationships. It is somewhat unfair to judge him by the standards of
today.

Lorraine M Harding

Steeton, West Yorkshire

Power to the people's peers

Richard Askwith cites the jury system as an example of direct democracy at work,
but then, rather strangely, ignores the current role of citizens' juries in
developing a new, more participatory, style of public deliberation ("People's
peers can rescue politics", 25 May).

At present citizens' juries - panels of between 10 and 50 people randomly
selected from the electoral register - tend to be used by local authorities as
little more than glorified focus groups, a means of consulting community opinion
on difficult issues. In this case the "jury" aspect is merely role-play. But,
given teeth, for example, the power to subpoena witnesses and to reach binding
decisions on planning applications, they could evolve into real instruments of
direct democracy.

Citizens' jurors could be put on a special roll to be considered for selection
as "people's peers". This would go some way to meeting the main objection to
Askwith's proposal, by ensuring that those who did make it to the second chamber
by this route were strongly motivated people with highly relevant experience

Phil Cohen

London N 19

Can Cheney be made to tell all?

Perhaps Dick Cheney ("The bruiser back from the political dead", 22 May) should
consider placing himself on an an officially approved enhanced interrogation
schedule. I'm not completely convinced that he is telling us everything he
knows, and I would like to be reassured.

Kenneth Brill

Stenton, East Lothian

If the interrogation techniques sanctioned at Guantanamo Bay are such a valuable
tool and capable of "saving lives" from the evidence they produce, then why do
those who hail the benefits not call for the techniques to also be made
available to the US police for employment against suspects arrested for such
crimes as murder and child molestation?

Laurence Williams

THETFORD, Norfolk

Cheney's support of torture as a way of preventing further terror attacks
contrasts oddly with the operation by the New York police that demonstrably
stopped a terrorist outrage, as described two pages earlier in the same issue.
("Undercover operation foiled Bronx bomb plot", 22 May)

The plot was foiled using intelligent policing; intelligence being the key
concept. It is an element clearly missing from Cheney's brutal armoury.

Fabian Acker

London SE22

Visa staff have a lot to put up with

Reading the succession of highly critical letters about visa issuing staff at
overseas posts, I have vainly looked for a response from senior managers in this
country.

Rudeness in any circumstances cannot be condoned, but rigorous inquiries and
double-checking can easily be defended in the light of the extent of deception
employed in order to secure a visa, including a high level of forgery and bogus
documentation. When the scale of abuse, intimidation and threat of physical
violence is taken into account it is not surprising that some staff do not
always measure up to the highest standards of behaviour.

It should not be left to someone who has been retired for nearly 20 years to
point out the facts of life.

When I was in charge of the Immigration Service I made a point of visiting
pressure posts abroad on a regular basis. Perhaps my successors think they have
better things to do with their time, but if any of them had taken the trouble to
visit Lagos in particular they would not have found it difficult to refute the
nonsensical claim by Avo Hughes (letter, 8 May) that expatriate wives fill in
the time between the school run and the cocktail hour by dealing with visa
applications.

Lagos was and still is a dangerous and intimidating place to work and live; I
recall querying the need for toughened glass partitions between visa issuing
staff and their clients, only to see the answer for myself while observing a
typical working day.

It is true that evenings are spent socialising with colleagues, but there is not
much in the way of alternative entertainment and there is the ever-present
awareness of the necessity of retreating behind the very stringent security
arrangements to ensure their personal safety. The school run is several thousand
miles away in the UK.

P TOMPKINS

Rottingdean, Sussex

(Head of the UK Immigration Service, 1981-1991)

Does it not occur to John A Fidler (letter, 12 May) that pulling rank is a most
unsavoury form of bullying? Does it not occur to him that the questions that
this "officious youth" asked were probably set out for him by his own Grade 6
superiors.

Probably he had a target time for the interview and trouble if he didn't meet
it. If he was rude or inept, the constant battering from a rude, threatening and
devious public encourages like behaviour in any but the best.

Peter Francis

Twickenham, Middlesex

Briefly...

Good guys' nukes

While it is right that any nuclear test, including that carried out by North
Korea, should be deplored, why is it that some countries, including Britain and
the US, see the upgrading of their own nuclear weapons and delivery systems as
being perfectly legitimate? The answer of course is that being in the hands of
the self-styled good guys makes them 100 per cent defensive and hence perfectly
legitimate.

Eddie Dougall

Walsham le Willows, Suffolk

Plenty of help

May I suggest to Michael Foss (letter, 21 May) that having several MEPs
representing him in the European Parliament has the advantage that he can write
to all of them, whatever their political allegiance, to ask for their help in
whatever problem he wishes them to address? If he uses post or email, he can
even contrive to address them all individually. Finding out who represents each
constituency merely requires access to the website www. europarl.org.uk.

Roger Knight

Swansea

Older mothers

I enjoy Janet Street-Porter's column, but I must disagree with her about
becoming a mother at the age of 66 (20 May). Would Ms Street-Porter really have
wanted a mother of 80 when she was 14? The likelihood is that this child will
spend most of its teenage years either looking after an elderly mother or as an
orphan. The case of older fathers is not the same, as most of them have much
younger partners.

Ione Lee

Plymouth, Devon

Instant scrap

The car scrappage scheme, whereby owners of cars more than ten years old are
induced to trade them in for a new one at a £2000 discount, is half-baked and
should be changed to cars more than one year old. The Government must instruct
the car makers to make the bodies out of low-grade chipboard so that even if the
owners attempt to prolong the life of them by frequent applications of creosote,
old chip fat, flattened beer cans and pop rivets etc, rain and damp will reduce
them to pulp within about a year.

John Taylor

Cambridge

Unconquered peak

Sir Ranulph Fiennes succeeded in climbing Everest, a great achievement. He did
not, as you reported (22 May), "conquer" Everest. Nobody has. Man cannot stay on
the summit. He is dying at a faster rate than normal once he enters the death
zone. All a climber can hope for is an ascent and a descent where Everest allows
them to survive to tell the tale. She should be treated with respect.

John Jefferson

Dundonald, South Ayrshire

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

Britain - Lucas tops EU reforms table

LENGTH: 389 words


Green Party leader Caroline Lucas shared top billing with a Scottish Tory and a
member of the Scottish National Party yesterday in a league table of British
MEPs doing most to champion European Parliament reforms and transparency.

A survey devised by the think tank Open Europe, which is campaigning for EU
change, puts South East MEP Ms Lucas, Scottish Tory Struan Stevenson and SNP MEP
Alyn Smith in joint first place.

The organisation awarded points to all 785 MEPs from 27 countries for their
record over the five-year European Parliament term which has just ended. Marks
were given in 20 categories, from good attendance and fighting Euro-budget waste
to promoting accountability and ending expenses secrecy.

Open Europe monitored a range of MEPs' activities, including voting records,
written declarations and whether MEPs opposed "wasteful activities," such as
meeting in Brussels and Strasbourg and a controversial failed bid to get
taxpayers to top up their pension contributions.

Swedish Green MEP Carl Schlyter won the most points - 55 out of a possible 58.

The lowest score was registered by Italian far-right MEP Roberto Fiore, who
managed just two points, including a 10-point penalty for being convicted and
jailed in Italy for alleged "subversive association" with terrorists.

Open Europe research director Mats Persson said: "They might talk a good game at
home, but too many British MEPs have voted against transparency and EU reform on
a number of occasions.

"What we need now is a new generation of politicians, committed to acting in the
public interest and pushing for a much better deal for taxpayers at all levels
of government - including EU level."

The good, the bad and the lazy

Highest British point scorers based on Open Europe criteria:

Caroline Lucas (Green Party) 43 points

Struan Stevenson (Tory) 43

Alyn Smith (SNP) 43

Diana Wallis (Lib-Dem) 42

Jim Allister (Independent) 41

Derek Clark (UKIP) 40

Fiona Hall (Lib-Dem) 40

Malcolm Harbour (Tory) 40

Chris Heaton-Harris (Tory) 39

Gerard Batten (UKIP) 39

Liz Lynne (Lib-Dem) 39

Lowest:

Glenis Willmott (Labour) 23

Nigel Farage (UKIP) 23

Baroness Nicholson (Lib-Dem) 23

Roger Knapman (UKIP) 22

Nirj Deva (Tory) 21

Giles Chichester (Tory) 19

Godfrey Bloom (UKIP) 19

Jonathan Evans (Tory) 14

Trevor Colman (UKIP) 13

Robert Kilroy-Silk (UKIP) 11

John Whittaker (UKIP) 11

David Sumberg (Tory) 10.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Obscene bill... and for what?;
THE Sun SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 350 words


IF you think our greedy MPs are up to their snouts in taxpayers' money, just
look what their cousins are up to in Brussels!

Free meals, free travel, free dental treatment. They even get free mudbaths -
lovely jubbly for freeloading fat cats.

That's on top of a whopping salary of £83,282 taxed at just 15 per cent - a
fraction of Gordon Brown's punishing new 50 per cent top rate.

Then there is the £260 a day attendance allowance, famously known as "SOSO" -
Sign On and S*d Off.

Yet for the few hours they do put in, they are entitled to claim almost £36,778
a year in food and booze - enough to feed several entire families.

Plus hundreds of thousands more for office costs and staff allowances - often
paid to spouses and family members.

The perks are so generous that MEPs routinely qualify as millionaires after one
five-year term in this cesspit of corruption.

Meddling

And what do we get in return? An avalanche of meddling directives dictating the
way we live, eat, work and go about our business.

The EU intrudes into every nook and cranny of our daily lives, from human rights
for paedophile prisoners to the garbage we put in our bins and the defence of
the realm.

And, if the hated EU Constitution becomes law next year, 500million EU citizens
will lose all further direct say - forever.

Voters across Europe have the chance to voice their opinions at the EU elections
on June 4. The political elite admit there is now a crisis of trust across the
European Union which threatens their democratic legitimacy.

Faceless MEPs of all parties are virtually unknown outside their own homes.

Labour has surrendered all credibility by betraying its pledge to hold a
referendum on the Constitution.

The Tories talk tough but send out conflicting messages.

Tiny Libertas offers hope after masterminding Ireland's sensational NO vote
against the Constitution last year.

UKIP just wants to pull Britain out of the EU altogether.

If the established parties have their way, the prospects for change in Brussels
vary between fat chance and no chance.

No wonder experts are predicting the lowest turnout in history on June 4.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

MASSIVE EXPENSES PAYOUTS;
THOUGHT WESTMINSTER WAS BAD? CHECK OUT BRUSSELS...

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 779 words


GREEDY Euro MPs rake in up to £363,250 A YEAR in expenses - without producing a
single receipt, a Sun investigation can reveal.

The taxpayers' cash they pocket dwarfs the amounts claimed by Westminster MPs,
whose milking of the system sparked outrage.

During the five-year term of a Brussels parliament, an MEP can clock-up an
eye-watering £1,816,250 in expenses. They even get free mudbaths.

Rise

On top of that the Euro fatcats will soon be on a basic salary of £83,282, after
awarding themselves a pay rise of 47 PER CENT. They pay income tax of just 15
PER CENT on it.

British workers on that money pay 40 per cent top rate tax, which is rising to
50 per cent.

But the gravy train does not stop there. When they leave, MEPs are awarded
£41,573 in "transition payments" and pension rights of £30,000 a year.

And in addition to the bucket-loads of cash, Brussels lawmakers enjoy a huge
array of free perks - including 60 MUDBATHS a year.

Hard-pressed British taxpayers are pouring £7BILLION a year into the EU.

With nine days to go before Britons vote for our 72 members in the European
Parliamentary Election, The Sun urges political leaders: STOP Euro MPs lining
their pockets at our expense.

The £363,250 MEPs can claim a year breaks down like this: £36,778 in
"subsistence allowances". That is £259 a day for 142 days of the year -
effectively just for turning up.

They also get £5,885 in language and IT courses. £87,407 in travel expenses.
£3,756 for an "additional annual travel allowance." £183,776 staff allowances
and £45,648 for office expenses (at £3,804 a month). They can also claim the
cost of bandages for varicose veins, contact lenses and batteries for hearing
aids.

MEPs can have five relaxing sessions of mudbaths, hydromassage, hydrotherapy and
acupuncture every month with a doctor's note.

They all travel business class on aircraft. And dental repairs worth £150 per
gold crown are available.

Receipts are NOT required to prove claims for MEPs' office costs, staff, travel
or other expenses. Being able to claim a flat rate for all expenses, rather than
having to submit receipts, allows them to pocket the cash without buying
anything - or buying cheap and pocketing the difference.

Voters are kept entirely in the dark about the Brussels freebies and
hospitality.

Circus And there are no penalties for leaving anything off the register of
interests.

Taxpayers are also forced to fund the extraordinary £180million-a-year cost of
the European Parliament sitting in Brussels AND Strasbourg. Its 1,745 workers
and their offices, including their paperwork, are shipped between Belgium and
France every month - at our expense.

This trek has become known as the "travelling circus".

And the European Parliament has done all it can to hush up the shocking gravy
train.

A report written in 2006 by the EU's Internal Audit official Robert Galvin has
only been seen by a handful of MEPs and was kept secret until last year.

It showed MEPs were paying companies for office and staff support - which turned
out to be a children's day-care centre and a company which traded wood.

Bonuses were regularly paid to staff of up to 19 TIMES salary.

Bogus companies were listed for payments from MEPs in return for office
services.

A staggering eight out of ten transactions by MEPs which were subject to VAT
included NO evidence the tax was ever paid.

And some paid office and staff allowances straight into the coffers of their own
political party.

Details of MEPs' claims were given to The Sun by the independent think tank Open
Europe.

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Many MEPs are raking it in and
living the high life in Brussels." Surveys suggest the Tories will top the poll
for Britain's MEPs on June 4 - with Labour braced to come fourth behind UKIP.

Tory leader David Cameron last week forced Tory candidates for Brussels to sign
pledges to post all their claims on a website.

Family They must also say if they employ family members and how much they are
paid.

Gordon Brown followed suit last night, forcing Labour MEPs to publish all
receipts for claims for the office costs allowance.

They will also publish details of all travel costs and the number of times they
claim the daily attendance allowance.

While the Tories must publish full details of their claims on the internet, they
will NOT have to submit their receipts.

Labour's leader in the European Parliament, Glenis Willmott, said: "Labour MEPs
have led the way for nine years, voluntarily having their accounts audited by an
independent accountant and published online.

"We have all now taken the decision to voluntarily publish a breakdown of
expenditure and all receipts pertaining it."

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brown ... new rules

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Englishness needs more than a corny festival;
The national identity is a fragile mixture of decency, fairness, humour - and
grievance. It will not be easy to nurture it

BYLINE: Melanie Reid

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 997 words


Dial 999 and call up the search teams. Posted missing, days before the European
elections, is a satisfactory cliché for English identity. The Welsh have their
leeks, the Irish their leprechaun outfits, the Scots their kilts, the Germans
their lederhosen. And the English, well ... the English don't really have
anything, do they? We seek it here, we seek it there, but all that is to be
found right now is the squalor of the BNP and the jelly-bellied flag-flappers of
English First and UKIP, all seizing the iconography of Englishness in the hope
that votes will follow.

You know things are bad when the left-of-centre Institute for Public Policy
Research comes out in favour of reclaiming the English flag and promoting St
George's Day as a public celebration. Yes, you read that correctly. Those who
would once have broken out in hives at the very mention of the patron saint are
now recommending festivals in his honour.

If the thought of the left-wing intelligentsia gathering to wave St George's
crosses, watch terrier racing and applaud welly-boot throwing makes you smile,
you're not alone. But the IPPR has understood finally that the BNP has its tank
on the long-neglected lawn of Englishness and is capitalising on
grievancefuelled politics. It urges mainstream parties to "combat the
insinuation that Englishness is forbidden in our cultural and political life".

The research paper, by Michael Kenny and Guy Lodge, acknowledges "a growing
sense that Englishness is disapproved of by the politicial elite and most public
authorities". Dislike of English symbolism and the public celebration of English
traditions, they add, has become prominent in recent years.

Kenny adds: "It is imperative that we do not let Englishness be tainted by the
BNP and other opportunistic far-right parties. A sense of pride in being English
and a growing wish to celebrate our English heritage and culture are positive
developments that should be ... encouraged by the main political parties."

Hallelujah, some might say. This is revolutionary stuff for the ideologues who
have regarded Englishness as shorthand for unreconstructed brutalism. Things are
easier on the Celtic fringe, where national identity is tediously omnipresent.
But in England, far too few recognise that identity is an infinitely more
subtle, modest thing, so easy to mock and so much harder to protect.

After years of Englishness being unfashionable, there is suddenly a realisation
that identity is precious and rather fragile - quite how precious nobody will
realise it is until it is lost, least of all the proponents of Labour's
"intolerant centralism", as the IPPR describes it.

But there are two main problems for those who seek to reverse the neglect and
embrace populist Englishness. One is to define it: to move beyond the groaning
old clichés about morris dancing or the tattooed white working class.

For me, Englishness resides in character, not anything physical. It is an
indefinable stew of tolerance, decency, resourcefulness and humour that only
manifests itself when called upon. Englishness means being determinedly unshowy;
modest to the point, often, of crashing dullness. Englishness means possessing a
deep sense of fairness, usually completely inarticulated, and a prize-winning
ability for a good moan. Englishness may be vulgar: whether it be shell suits
and pitbulls; or monogrammed initials on your well cover - God bless you, Sir
Peter Viggers - but on the whole it would rather do you a good turn than a bad.

The next issue is how to nurture this identity and protect it from extremist
exploitation. The IPPR recommends measures to recognise English cultural
expressions - such as making St George's Day a holiday, festivals, encouraging
the use of an English national anthem at sporting events, but it adds "for such
reforms to be credible they cannot simply be imposed top-down by the State".

You bet they can't. It will take more than corny festivals - can you imagine how
dull they would be? - to nurture Englishness, though a day off, a bit of
respect, and some economic realignment would be a good start. Future
governments, if they want to control racist attitudes, must engage with the
arguments and do some listening.

They also must tackle the issue of England's democratic deficit. Labour can't
make up its mind - and may now never get the chance to choose - between creating
a tier of English regional government and a policy of (centrally controlled)
localism. The Conservatives have espoused "English votes for English law" in
recent manifestos, but do not favour an iconic separate English parliament.

Addressing English political inequality since the settlements with Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland must be part of the solution. A report from the House
of Commons Justice Committee at the weekend described England as the "unfinished
business of devolution" - "stuck in a timewarp" while the rest of the UK has
moved on.

Both the Justice Committee and the IPPR agree that the Barnett formula, which
allocates money to Scotland, is a busted flush. Nearly a third of the English
believe that Scotland gets more than its fair share - and that they are
subsidising free care for the elderly and free university education north of the
Border. That's another quality of Englishness - they dislike being regarded as a
dripping roast.

Church leaders are also anxious at the growing resentment. After a poll found
that more than a quarter of voters planned to reject the Westminster
Establishment, the Archbishop of York and Archbishop of Canterbury effectively
urged people to vote for mainstream parties. It would be "tragic", they said, if
people abstained or voted for minority parties such as the BNP.

Sadly the Establishment has brought all this on themselves. But another prime
definition of Englishness is its suspicion of anything remotely resembling rapid
change. Perhaps there are still some reasons to be cheerful.

Will the intelligentsia wave St George flags and go welly-throwing?

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Labour's poll fear for Scottish MEP

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 431 words


Labour strategists are increasingly anxious that the party will lose one of its
two Scottish seats in the European elections on June 4. Although David Martin,
the longserving MEP who occupies the No 1 position on the Labour list, looks
secure, there are fears that Catherine Stihler, an MEP since 1999 and No 2 on
the list, will fail to be re-elected.

The number of MEPs from Scotland is going from seven to six as part of the
decision to accommodate politicians from the accession states of eastern Europe.
In the 2004 election, Scotland returned two Labour, two SNP, two Conservative
and one Liberal Democrat to Brussels.

Sources in the mainstream parties say that four Scottish seats are pretty well
decided, with the SNP on course to win two, Labour one and the Conservatives
one. Scottish samples of UK-wide polls show the SNP on 37 per cent, Labour on 25
per cent, the Tories on 17 and the Lib Dems on 12. Polling evidence indicates
that all four parties are fighting effectively for the two other Scottish seats.

Among the various scenarios, the SNP could renew their political momentum by
winning three seats, while the Conservatives believe that they can retain two.
Another unknown is whether the Scottish Lib Dems can retain an MEP in the shape
of George Lyon, the former MSP.

One senior Labour source said: "There is a lot of concern for us. We think we
might manage to keep the second seat but it's going to be very close."

The turnout in Scotland and Wales is also likely to be lower than in the rest of
Britain, mainly because protest anti-EU parties, such as UKIP and the BNP, do
not have the same profile or resonance in Scotland. Another factor affecting
turnout will be the mood in Britain as a whole as a result of the Westminster
expenses scandal.

The turnout in Scotland at the last European election was 30.6 per cent and in
1999, it plunged to just over 24 per cent. There are fears among all the parties
that turnout this time may rival or even be lower than the 1999 figure. One
factor in Scotland that could depress turnout yet further is that unlike other
parts of Britain, there will be no local elections on the same day.

The SNP launched its European campaign manifesto with a call to voters to step
up pressure on Gordon Brown for an early general election. The party also said
that its MEPs would not take a £10,000 pay rise due this year for
parliamentarians in Brussels.

The Conservatives began a campaign roadshow yesterday, which will take nine days
and cover Scotland from Gretna to Inverness.

'We might manage to keep the second seat. It will be very close'

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday

Seize the moment and become an MP, says Cameron

BYLINE: Robert Winnett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790  words


DAVID CAMERON has issued an invitation for people who have "never previously
thought'' of becoming MPs to contest the next general election as candidates for
the Conservative Party.

The Conservative leader wants to attract successful people to "widen the net''
of potential MPs and reform Parliament in the wake of the expenses scandal. He
said he would welcome well known figures such as Joanna Lumley, the actress who
has championed the cause of the Gurkhas, as Tory MPs.

In an article for today's Daily Telegraph, Mr Cameron urges people to "seize the
moment'' and turn the current political crisis into an opportunity. The
Conservatives are to reopen their approved list of candidates for the next
general election in the hope that a diverse range of people will come forward.

His upbeat tone stands in contrast to that of many Labour MPs who are largely
pessimistic over the impact of the Telegraph's disclosures concerning expenses
claims. However, last night one Cabinet minister called for a referendum on
electoral reform, while another backed constitutional reform.

Mr Cameron said: "It's been a terrible few weeks for politics. The stories
revealed by the Telegraph of MPs abusing their expenses has shaken Parliament,
and our whole political process to the core. This crisis can be turned into an
opportunity: 2009 doesn't have to be remembered as the year the British
political system was brought to its knees.

"If we seize the moment we can make it the year of reform - reform that we
reaped the rewards from for many years to come.''

Over the past fortnight, the Conservative leader has taken action against Tory
MPs found to have abused the expenses system. Four MPs have already announced
that they will step down at the next election - including Andrew MacKay, Mr
Cameron's former parliamentary aide.

Last night, there was growing pressure on Mr MacKay's wife, Julie Kirkbride, who
is also a Conservative MP. The couple were found to have each claimed second
home expenses for two different properties.

Senior Conservatives privately gave warning that dozens of MPs may ultimately
have to step down. However, Mr Cameron hopes that many of the vacant seats may
be filled by new MPs who have

not previously been associated with Westminster.

In today's article he says: "I'm going to reopen the candidates list and invite
new people to come forward. They don't necessarily need to have been involved in
our party in the past - more important than that is a belief in public service,
and a desire to clean up our political system.

"Bringing in new blood in this way won't solve all our problems. But it's a
start.''

The main political parties are growing increasingly alarmed that a number of
independent candidates and fringe parties may benefit from public anger at MPs.

In a letter to Conservative supporters, Mr Cameron has urged them not to vote
for the UK Independence Party in the forthcoming European Elections.

"I know that after what has been happening in Westminster you may know people
who are thinking of voting UKIP,'' he said. "They don't deserve your vote.''

Senior Church of England bishops have urged people not to vote for the British
National Party in a joint statement, issued on behalf of the Church of England
House of Bishops, by Dr Rowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury and Dr John
Sentamu, the Archbishop of York.

In a reference to the BNP, they say that some parties would seek to exploit the
current political climate to foster "fear and division within communities,
especially between people of different faiths or racial background''.

Alan Johnson, the Health Secretary, has called on the Prime Minister to seize
the political initiative by offering voters a referendum on electoral reform.

"The current public mood of anger and disquiet... demands a response,'' writes
Mr Johnson in The Times today. "We need to overhaul the engine, not just clean
the upholstery.'' Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, has said the government
must introduce major constitutional reforms to restore public trust.

Mr Miliband, who is in charge of Labour's manifesto and election strategy, said
more power should be handed to local government and Commons select committees to
scrutinise legislation.

Mr Miliband said: "Out of a set of terrible issues, this is a moment for big
reform and government must take advantage of it.

"We need a more pluralistic political system where power is shared in different
ways.''

Their comments come as Gordon Brown was expected today to force Labour MEPs to
publish their expenses claim receipts.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, said he welcomed the idea of a large
number of independents coming in "to challenge party stooges'' and bring a
"completely fresh approach'' to Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: LW; 24

LENGTH: 748 words


°If that's justice for baby p, the judge wants locking up with those evil
bastards. bart °How the hell can a judge give 5 years to baby peter's mother?
Has he no kids? THAILAND JOHN °the judge in the baby p case should retire in
shame. How can he look at himself? liz mum bmouth °i'll do 12 years if i can put
a bullet in that evil bastard's head. RIP baby peter. andy °why is baby P's
murdering scumbag of a mother and her piece of filth of a boyfriend not been
identified?

We should know who they are so they can be attacked in prison. KNgooner °how
dare the mother of baby p ask for forgiveness. She and her bf should be hanged.
jane from stafford °thanx 2 nurses on ward 24 in Stirling Royal - esp sexy ann k
and lovly sis donna. They doin a luvly job puttin up with me. jock the blue nose
°Porridge for breakfast, soup and bread for lunch, a healthy meal for dinner -
lost one stone in a month, easy. BOB °Captain Caveman would have Hong Kong
Phooey in his pocket.

hairbag °In the Lady GaGa song she says: "Russian roulette is not the same
without a gun." Me and my mate Alan both have a nut allergy and used to play
Russian roulette with a bag of Revels.

The peanuts have been replaced with raisins - not the same. MULLET °So Vanessa
from the Saturdays is 2 clean 2 camp. Ain't gonna win many fans over. Down &
Dirty. .

°is jon barrowman the most annoyin pr@? k on telly? TAT °just read about voting
4 UKIP.

Remember pandora's box. . . UKIP are going to let Spanish trawlers fi sh our
seas when our own fishermen have been told THEY can't. Be careful what you wish
for - it may just come true.

anita °My mate has just shown me her wedding gift list: TV, washing machine,
dish washer, hi-fi , carpets, microwave. . . It was like reading an MP's
expenses list! POLLY TICKLE °Once again Britain's Got Talent is ruined by ant &
dec's ugly mugs - thought the show was about new talent not their egos. tevo
°Green Day's 21st Century Breakdown album: brilliant! awesome!

Enough said. Dragon Lady °Can someone please tell me: am I supposed to laugh at
Celebrity Mr and Mrs? PAUL °Philip Schofi eld is probably a nice chap. Why does
he appear such a irritating twit on telly? TAFFY °In what film r there 2
prisoners wiv the prison numbers 30265 & 37927?

Bet no 1 gets it. stu cromer °If I want a job on telly should I put "attacked a
cab driver" on my CV?

TAFFY °I have no probs with anyone wanting to live here but i'm so glad the
Gurkhas fi nally got recognition - the are true Brits! paul °To Mike G: you want
the French to invade to rid us of a corrupt government? The last time they did
that, they took over and committed mass genocide against the Saxons. Do you
really want that to happen again, you muppet?

john h °So now some councils are 2 spend GBP 7k to put up flag poles to show
PARKS are GREEN - never seen different coloured grass anyway. Another bloody
disgraceful waste of taxpayers' money. CHUD °To Mrs Cockney Cat: I knew some
silly sod would take the bait. Any love is good love (John Lennon ). LEO, LEEDS
°Doh! I think someone on the paper had 1 too many at lunch. My text was put
together with my fellas'. Just for the record: he is a geezer, i am a bird.

Mrs Cockney Cat °Message to Kate Price and Peter André: you can fool some people
some of the time. . . Grow up. Paul °To spit image: your comment about Princess
Tiaamii looking like Antony Worrall Thompson was spot on. She is a dead ringer.
Katie, is there something you need to tell Peter?

Noeline, Halifax.

ha ha 2 all u mugs Jackson tickets. U would play, did u?

Ha ha.

fl ee °To GODS NUMBER 2: never mind the pay rise - use the MPs' dosh to buy
proper kit for our troops. B'ton Boy °To pro choice: yes, i am pro-life. I
admire maisie's mother. She could have opted 4 a legal abortion but she let a
life be created instead. Many girls are easy meat, then they run 2 the nearest
clinic at the 1st sign of a baby. . Shame on them. In plain english. . . button
it. Bolton Lass °Ê Good news about Saint & Greavsie being back on the box. 1
problem though; don't have Setanta. . . ALT °To Cheez: you say Susie Christian
could never earn GBP 500 a week. Not the point! She never intended to work and
shouldn't be entitled to benefit! Balf 226 °to dogmoler: fi shing = a jerk on
one end waiting for a jerk on the other end.

pete the bus driver °Is it just me, or is Rachel Riley from Countdown getting fi
tter every day?

She's far sexier than cod-face Carol. leeroy ralford °Ê re spit image: wot
happens to your mind when it boggles? DAVO

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 25, 2009 Monday

Comment and debate: Cameron has got the nerve to take Labour to pieces: His
opportunism over expenses is amazing, he's a shameless mover and the country is
more than likely to give him a go

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1100 words


It's hard to believe. Yet it's obviously true. When so many Tory MPs have become
hate figures, for their moats, duck houses, vast expenses, home-flipping and
outraged arrogance, the Westminster sleaze row is playing hugely to the
Conservatives' benefit, and looks like plunging Labour into final meltdown.

How has it happened? How has frugal, quiet Gordon Brown - nobody's idea of a
high roller - found himself so utterly outplayed by the rich boys? When the
public mood is vengeful against the well-upholstered elite, why is a glossy,
wealthy old Etonian cleaning up?

Of course, even if there are Ukip, Green and even BNP breakthroughs at the
European elections, the mood will be very different in a general election.
People do then vote on the great questions of tax and spending, and are likelier
to swallow some of their anger and look in more detail at what the parties
actually propose. Even so, the polls, the reaction MPs are getting and every
conversation I have all lead me to think the net winner in all this is David
Cameron.

He's playing blinder after blinder. He came out early and sounded genuinely
shocked and angry. He is making quite clear to his own shamed MPs that they must
go (though so far, only one of his close associates, Andrew McKay, has been
handed the revolver). He is in the vanguard of calls for parliamentary reform,
and he is now capitalising on the new enthusiasm for independents by inviting
them into his own party.

Cameron has undoubtedly got the tone right. He sounds chastened. He sounds as if
he's listening. Yet, when you probe it a little, almost everything David Cameron
is suggesting boosts his own position, from calls for an early election to the
forced retirement of old buffers.

The Tory casualties are mainly older, snootier MPs he wants rid of anyway, and
re-opening the party's candidate list is a new way of getting a second chance at
his "A-list" scheme for more women, ethnic minority candidates and younger
candidates - which failed the first time around with the local party
associations.

I think open selection meetings on the model of the US primaries is a good idea.
But that too would strengthen the hand of a reformist leader against the Tory
constituency associations who have been clinging on to their old-style MPs. The
local old boys' cliques would be subverted by bigger meetings, likelier to
choose younger candidates.

And if they went for people without a background in the Tory party, you might
get a few more independent types who would be harder to whip, but politics is a
hard game, and those trying it for the first time would soon find themselves
leaning on the support of the party machine. I fear you wouldn't get natural
rebels but vain business people and media luvvies, who in the Commons would find
they needed all the help they could get. If they are used to the limelight, or
to power, they would want government jobs, so would need to keep in with - yes,
that nice Mr Cameron.

Take another big idea he returned to yesterday, that of cutting the number of
seats in the Commons to, say, 500. Like an early election, this is popular with
the voters. But it is also a pro-Conservative change. Even since the number of
Scottish constituencies was cut back following devolution, Labour has benefited
from the larger number of seats with smaller populations.

The exact effects are much contested because they involve the way people behave
as voters in different kinds of seats, not the just raw numbers of who lives
where. But just as there used to be an inbuilt Tory bias in the system, in
recent years there's been a Labour one.

A detailed academic study of constituency bias by three geographers from Leeds,
Bristol and Sheffield universities gave some idea of what's happening. Labour
had 36.2% of the votes in 2005, but won nearly 57% of the seats. In votes, the
Tories were only 3% behind but got just 197 seats to Labour's 355. Put in
another way, the average electorate in Conservative-won constituencies was
72,950 against Labour's 66,802.

So it is right to look again at constituency boundaries. As populations shift,
it's an endless job and, if the next review benefits the Tories overall, that
may be fair enough. But this is another change that would boost Cameron and
which he has nevertheless managed to present as a beyond-party assault on the
political culture. If you think I'm being too cynical, just look at how airily
Cameron dismisses Liberal Democrat calls for a proper review of the electoral
system itself. A change that would help the Lib Dems is "irrelevant", while one
that helps the Tories is very important.

I want to avoid too carping a tone here. Half of me is just amazed at Cameron's
opportunism. As a political operator, you have to say he's the best in Britain.
The saintly Vince Cable may be the best ballroom dancer at Westminster but
Cameron's a shimmying, liquid and shameless mover, as fast on his feet as Tony
Blair in his prime. I don't think, in the end, the country will like Cameron any
better than Blair. But the country is more than likely to give him a go.

That's politics. It just makes Brown look more like a confused, grumpy old bear
than ever. While he's been wondering about the internal game of who to dump and
who to promote in the cabinet, Cameron is playing to the gallery but on his own
terms. Imagine if the prime minister had been first out, sacking and
disciplining, demanding radical changes, talking of open selection meetings and
challenging local Labour associations. The trouble is, it's now impossible to
imagine. As with the position of Michael Martin as Speaker, Labour culture came
first and responding to public anger, second.

It has not been easy for any politician to know how to respond to the current
crisis. Events have moved at lightning speed, the dirty linen has been tumbling
out in unexpected directions, and there is nothing in any MP's memory to compare
with the public mood just now. Parliamentarians I talk to are punch-drunk,
bruised, battered and at least as confused as Gordon Brown. But Labour MPs seem
utterly demoralised, desperately hoping that a new package of reforms plus an
improving economy can turn things round, but knowing in their hearts that
Labour's time is probably up.

This is a new world, which requires different political skills from the
slow-moving, deliberative and bureaucratic politics Brown emerged from. It isn't
always fair, but Cameron has got the message and is taking Labour to pieces. I
shake my head with astonishment at his chutzpah and nerve. Yet you feel you know
where it will take him.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 25, 2009 Monday

Feature - Choose life;
Why animal welfare is key to humanity's welfare

BYLINE: Derek Wall

LENGTH: 819 words


I am very much on the election trail at the moment as a European election
candidate.

I have been out and about on the party bus in Berkshire where I live, appeared
at a couple of hustings, most notable for the fact that UKIP has not wanted to
debate the fact that its former MEP Ashley Mote was imprisoned for fraud and
joined a fascist group in the European Parliament with Mussolini's
granddaughter.

I have also been answering an awful lot of emails. In fact, I have had well over
a 100 emails as part of a League Against Cruel Sports campaign to end EU support
for bullfighting.

I am well aware that readers of the Morning Star are not too impressed by party
political pleadings. I had assumed this would not be a party political matter.

I naively thought that all candidates of all parties in the election would
oppose cruelty to animals. After all, it's ethically wrong and hardly a vote
winner.

In fact, Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan seems to be quite keen on a bit of
bullfighting. In a newspaper article entitled In praise of bullfighting a couple
of years ago, he defended this "sport."

Hannan argued that it is a fair contest between matador and bull, a lucha or
struggle between man - women killers are rare - and beast.

He argued that Europhiles want to abolish bullfighting because it is
"traditional" and they have no respect for real cultural diversity.

Hannan conjured up Hemingway, Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde to suggest that, "when
the sword plunges, the crowd is left feeling purged - cleaner and nobler than
when it entered the arena."

It's not difficult to debunk Hannan's arguments, which are essentially based on
the fact that cruelty for pleasure is acceptable.

While I am not sure that all on the political right would share his enthusiasm
for bullfighting, his take certainly has support within the political right. The
left have not always been champions of animal welfare either.

Trotsky was a keen hunter, although I suspect he was more concerned with lunch
than the thrill of the chase. Engels was a member of his local fox hunt in
Cheshire, although he told Marx that this was to keep his cavalry skills up in
case he was required to fight in a British revolution.

One of the reasons why I am a member of the Green Party is that the green
movement has always promoted the welfare of all life rather than just humans.

I strongly believe those on the left should support animal welfare. The
exploitation of animals for pleasure and profit seems to me to go together with
the exploitation of other human beings for self-interest. Surely compassion for
other species is bound up with compassion for other human beings.

One reason why both swine flu and the potentially far more dangerous avian bird
flu have arisen is factory farming, where chickens and pigs are dosed with
antibiotics because they are crowded so closely together in the name of profit.
Antibiotics and antivirals breed resistant bugs that threaten humanity.

Equally, if we look at vivisection, pharmaceutical companies are motivated not
by love of humanity but love of their margins. Animals are slaughtered in tests
to produce new drugs to mimic existing patented products.

Scratch the surface most apparently complex ethical debates around animal
welfare and human benefit and you soon find a profit motive that serves neither
humanity or other creatures.

Hannan overlooked the fact that increasing numbers of Spanish voters find
bullfighting appalling.

According to a Gallup poll in 2006, identified by Green MEP Caroline Lucas in an
excellent article on her vigorous work to end this cruelty, 70 per cent of
Spanish citizens either find the activity cruel or have no interest in it. Yet
the Spanish government still subsidises bullfighting, as does the EU.

While Hannan defends the sport as an even match between matador and bull, the
process is pretty sick.

Lucas writes: "The 'show' begins when the bull enters the arena and is provoked
into charging several times, before being approached by picadores, men on
blindfolded horses, who drive lances into its back and neck muscles.

"The matador appears and, after a few forced charges, tries to kill the bull
with his sword. If he misses, he stabs the submissive animal on the back of the
neck until it is paralysed. The idea is to cut the animal's spinal cord, but, if
the matador botches the job, the bull may be fully conscious while its ears or
tail are removed as trophies."

In Cuba, despite Hemingway's love of the sport bullfighting was banned long ago.
Bullfighting has also been "traditional" in Venezuela, although it has now been
banned by the mayor of the capital Caracas.

Hugo Chavez's United Socialist Party has also lined up on the side of animal
liberation and is working to ban bullfighting in the whole country. There is a
slogan that goes "Human freedom, animal rights! One struggle, one fight!" Which
pretty much sums up my attitude.

ON THE INTERNET: www.league.org.uk.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Kilroy is second worst in MEP list

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 194 words


FORMER telly star Robert Kilroy-Silk is one of the WORST Euro MPs in Britain, a
report claims today.

A damning league table puts the ex-chatshow host joint second from bottom.

The survey gave points based on MEPs voting for transparency and reform in
Brussels - including lifting the lid on expenses.

Kilroy-Silk, 67, was a member of the UK Independence Party when elected as MEP
for East Midlands, but is now an independent candidate.

Reform Tory David Sumberg was judged the worst Brit by campaign group Open
Europe. He got ten points to KilroySilk's 11.

UKIP has SIX MEPs in the bottom ten.

Green MEP Caroline Lucas, Tory Struan Stevenson and Scottish Nationalist Alyn
Smith came joint top with 43 points.

Open Europe's Mats Persson said: "They might talk a good game, but too many
voted against transparency and EU reform on a number of occasions."

Top ten worst MEPs: 1. David Sumberg, Tory, ten points 2. John Whittaker, UKIP,
11. 3. Robert Kilroy-Silk, Independent, 11. 4. Trevor Colman, UKIP, 13. 5.
Jonathan Evans, Tory, 14, 6. Godfrey Bloom, UKIP, 19. 7. Giles Chichester, UKIP,
19. 8. Nirj Deva, Tory, 21. 9. Roger Knapman, UKIP, 22. 10. Nigel Farage, UKIP,
23.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Slammed ... Kilroy-Silk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

MEP rap for Kilroy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 96 words


FORMER telly star Robert Kilroy-Silk, 67, is one of the WORST Euro MPs in
Britain, a report claims today.

The ex-chatshow host comes joint second from bottom in a survey based on MEPs
voting for transparency and reform in Brussels - including lifting the lid on
expenses.

Worst MEPs: 1. David Sumberg, Tory, ten points 2. John Whittaker, UKIP, 11. 3.
Robert Kilroy-Silk, Independent, 11. 4. Trevor Colman, UKIP, 13. 5. Jonathan
Evans, Tory, 14, 6. Godfrey Bloom, UKIP, 19. 7. Giles Chichester, UKIP, 19. 8.
Nirj Deva, Tory, 21. 9. Roger Knapman, UKIP, 22. 10. Nigel Farage, UKIP, 23.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Kilroy is in 'worst MEP' list

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 139 words


FORMER telly star Robert Kilroy-Silk is one of the WORST Euro MPs in Britain, a
report claims today.

A league table has the ex-chat show host, 67, joint second from bottom. The
survey rated MEPs voting for transparency and reform in Brussels - including
lifting the lid on expenses.

Kilroy-Silk was in the UK Independence Party as East Midlands MEP, but is now
independent.

Mats Persson, of the Open Europe campaign group, said Tory David Sumberg was
judged the worst Brit. He added: "Too many voted against EU reform."

Top ten worst MEPs: 1. David Sumberg, Tory, ten points 2. John Whittaker, UKIP,
11. 3. Robert Kilroy-Silk, Independent, 11. 4. Trevor Colman, UKIP, 13. 5.
Jonathan Evans, Tory, 14, 6. Godfrey Bloom, UKIP, 19. 7. Giles Chichester, UKIP,
19. 8. Nirj Deva, Tory, 21. 9. Roger Knapman, UKIP, 22. 10. Nigel Farage, UKIP,
23.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shamed ... Kilroy-Silk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 24, 2009
                                 First Edition

Rebel with a cause to clean up Parliament;
Jane Merrick meets Nick Clegg Fresh from his successful gamble in calling for
the Speaker to stand down, the Liberal Democrat leader sees himself as an
anti-Establishment figure. But can a Cambridge-educated ex-public schoolboy be
the James Dean of the Commons?

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1647 words


As the expenses scandal washes around Westminster, Nick Clegg is trying to
distinguish the expense claims of members of his own party from the worst
excesses of Labour and Conservative MPs. No Liberal Democrat has yet to come
unstuck over a duck island or a moat, and he says his party's misdemeanours are
more "laughable and ridiculous" than "crooked and fraudulent".

"That might well change, as more things come to light," says Clegg. "So far, I
haven't seen any evidence of a colleague who's done something anywhere near the
equivalent to the systemic sort of 'flipping' and abuse and fictional mortgage
payments that have been received in other parties."

That was Thursday morning, shortly after 9.30am. Two hours later, Clegg's chief
election strategist, Lord Rennard, stood down for "health and family reasons".
The party insists his departure has nothing to do with the £40,000 he claimed
for a holiday home he owns, despite living two miles from Westminster, and so,
they say, the Lib Dem leader's words still stand.

Yet Lord Rennard's downfall mars what had been a good week for Clegg. He had
taken the huge gamble of becoming the first leader of a political party to call
for the Speaker to stand down, in what marked the turning point for Michael
Martin. By Monday evening, Gordon Brown had made clear he was withdrawing
support, and David Cameron was also indicating that he could not rally his MPs
to back Martin. By Tuesday, the Speaker had resigned. Clegg describes his
intervention as "a catalyst", even if it was not the only one.

On Thursday morning, the Prime Minister performed a U-turn on settlement rights
for Gurkhas, a campaign which, with Joanna Lumley, the Lib Dem leader had
spearheaded in the Commons.

Let's not be under any illusions: Clegg, 42, attended fee-paying Westminster
School, followed by Cambridge University. His Spanish wife, Miriam Gonzalez
Durantez, is a partner in an international law firm. Clegg is often compared to
Cameron - they look similar, they share privileged backgrounds, and even share a
professed enthusiasm for civil liberties and the environment.

But the Lib Dem leader frequently breaks into his own sentences with scathing
remarks about his Tory counterpart. Cameron is a "joker" by pushing ahead with a
Eurosceptic policy and believes in nothing "other than a sense of entitlement
that he should run this country".

In the 4 June European and council elections, the minor parties are expected to
benefit from the expenses scandal, while the Lib Dems appear to be stuck in the
late teens in the polls. "Of course there is the mood to give every single
politician in a suit a good kicking, particularly if they are going to set foot
in Westminster."

Yet the Lib Dems' position is still disappointing, and they continue to struggle
to be heard in the gap between Labour and the Tories and the minor parties -
which helps explain why Clegg can make gambles such as demanding the Speaker's
head.

Like Cameron, he wants an immediate general election, but he says of the Tories:
"I cannot imagine what would be more disappointing to the British public than to
find in the next few years all we've done is trade one shop-soiled government
run by an Establishment party for another."

He portrays himself as the anti-Establishment, "influence and reform" party
leader, claiming: "I will break Westminster rules." Unlike Labour and the
Tories, he says, he is not part of the "rotten" Establishment that has fostered
a "eunuch Parliament". But, unlike Ukip, the Greens and the BNP, the Lib Dems,
as the third party, can be influential by having one foot inside that
Parliament, he says.

In these recessionary times, the Lib Dem leader and his advisers are crammed
into their standard-class seats on the King's Cross to Durham train. Clegg
insists he never travels first class, unlike other party leaders.

But what about the Lib Dems, are they really hair-shirt and sandals? "I would
say most of the revelations are concentrated at the laughable, unwise and
ridiculous end of things, but that doesn't absolve anyone from any mistakes that
they have made."

The most notable of those included Chris Huhne's mahogany trouser press and Sir
Menzies Campbell's £10,000 makeover for his Westminster flat. The Lib Dem
leader's own error was to charge to the taxpayer £82 of international telephone
calls to friends and family in Colombia and Vietnam. He says: "I put my hands
up, I made a mistake."

MPs from all parties who are proved to have committed serious wrongdoing should
be subject to a recall committee of their constituents, which could trigger a
by-election, he suggests. "It is shocking how far we have fallen in the pecking
order of the parliamentary league table. Part of that problem is because we have
all indulged in this kind of self-congratulatory myth that Westminster is the
mother of all parliaments. It can regulate itself, it can make up its own rules,
it can be judge and jury."

Clegg wants an urgent meeting between the three leaders on party funding. "We
need to use this as a once-in-a-generation chance to clean politics up from top
to toe."

On Wednesday, Clegg had struggled to be heard during Prime Minister's Questions
because the Speaker, in apparent revenge, allowed barracking from Labour MPs to
continue for a little too long. "I'm sure it was inadvertent," says Clegg, a
little sarcastically. But he does not regret calling for the Speaker to go. "I
actually like him, [but] he was a Speaker who was completely bypassed by events,
who represented an older world, and we needed someone to be a champion of the
new world. We really need to take charge of this place, get it by the scruff of
the neck, turn it upside down and, I am sorry ... we wouldn't have had that
moment of renewal if I hadn't brought it to a head."

Two senior Lib Dems, Sir Menzies and Sir Alan Beith, are in the running for the
Speakership. So who does Clegg want to be the party's candidate? "I don't think
there should be a Lib Dem candidate actually," he says, before hastily
clarifying: "I am genuinely going to vote for the person who I think is going to
be the most relentless zealot for reform. I am not necessarily going to vote for
a candidate from my own party.

"Those in the frame would be outstanding. What I mean is, it really would be a
huge mistake for Parliament now to just fall back and have a tedious block
tribal vote on this."

Does Sir Alan, who found his second home allowances under scrutiny this week,
have the qualities he is looking for? Is Sir Menzies, with his £10,000 interior
design bill, a positive force for change? Clegg, betraying a little
ruthlessness, fails to back his predecessor explicitly, answering: "I think all
of them do. I don't think there's any obvious lead candidate."

One veteran Lib Dem who will not be running is Vince Cable, Clegg's popular
Treasury spokesman, who is being urged to stand. "Vince quite rightly says he
wants to be a player, he doesn't want to be a referee. He's not going to stand.
Vince and I want to be players in changing Britain."

So, if Cameron is a "joker," and yet the Lib Dems want to be players, where does
that leave the party if the next election results in a hung parliament? "We
really shouldn't waste time in having this conversation," Clegg says, sighing.
But, don't people have a right to know what his position is? As the third party,
the Lib Dems could be the kingmakers in a hung parliament. In what appears to be
a shift in position, he says: "If the British people decide they don't want to
give any party an outright mandate, then all politicians of all parties will
need to get together to work out how we cobble things together so we keep the
country ticking over and providing government."

Proportional representation remains a vital issue for Lib Dems, he says, but
when I ask whether it remains a "deal-breaker" he adds: "Of course it's part of
the recipe of reform that I want, but I haven't got a shopping list."

According to Clegg, the Labour Party under Brown is suffering from a "breakdown
of its central nervous system". And the PM himself has an "odd inability to read
the mood of the country". "Partly as a person he is at fault: he sits there in
his bunker. He doesn't like dissent; he doesn't like engaging with other points
of view." By contrast, he says, the Lib Dems are now the "voice of progress,
conscience and reform and I think we will overtake Labour in terms of numbers".

Does he really think the Lib Dems, whose MPs number 63, can overtake Labour,
which currently has a tally of 350? "Yes, over time. I'll tell you why. Because
politics is about a contest of ideas and the best ideas will win out over time."

Clegg at first refuses to put a timetable on this grand plan, but when I ask if
it will happen within a decade, he says: "Oh yes, I think things will happen
relatively quickly. Of course, I can't tell you how and when, but I think the
fact is that the intellectual battle is won. We now need to translate that into
seats." Without his election strategist, Lord Rennard, that battle just became
harder.

JOHN RENTOUL PAGE 39

MELANIE MCDONAGH PAGE 40

LEADING ARTICLE PAGE 41

THE MAKING OF A PARTY LEADER

Born 7 January 1967 in Buckinghamshire to a half-Russian banker father and a
Dutch mother

1978 Attends Westminster School. At 16, as an exchange student in Munich, does
community service after causing criminal damage - he burnt a professor's cacti

1986 Studies archaeology and anthropology at Robinson College, Cambridge

1993 Having worked in New York as a trainee journalist, he joins the Financial
Times

1994 Works for the European Commission in Brussels

1999 MEP for the East Midlands

2000 Marries Miriam Gonzalez Durantez. They have three sons

2004 Stands down as an MEP to campaign for a Westminster seat

2005 Becomes MP for Sheffield Hallam and Europe spokesman

2006 Home Affairs spokesman

December 2007 Elected leader of the Liberal Democrats

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 24, 2009

Observer Magazine: Life & style: Restaurants: This is England: At Moonrakers
both the menu and the view are good enough to eat, says Jay Rayner

BYLINE: Jay Rayner

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 758 words


MOONRAKERS, HIGH STREET, ALFRISTON, EAST SUSSEX (01323 871 199).

LUNCH FOR TWO, INCLUDING DRINKS AND SERVICE, £ 50. DINNER, £ 80

If the setting had been scripted by Richard Curtis - Four Courses and a Digestif
, say, or Lunch, Actually - it couldn't have been any more perfect. At the back
of an ancient black beamed cottage, twisted and turned by time, was a terrace
beneath a sky the shade of blue that art directors pick out for Greek travel
brochures. Beyond was a manicured pasture where children frolicked - pastures
are always for frolicking on, never playing - and beyond that, poking shyly
through the mighty trees, the spire of an English church, guardian to a
graveyard of the village dead, gone but still so much with us. Chocolate box? Oh
yes, and sweet enough to make the least sensitive teeth shriek in agony. Members
of the UK Independence Party would probably regard a photograph of this as
nothing short of porn. All it needed was a waft of Vaughan Williams's Lark
Ascending and the picture would have been complete.

When the setting is as good as this, as unforced as this - and the long-range
forecast promises many more azure skies this year - the job of the food is very
simple. It doesn't have to succeed. All it has to do is not fail. For the most
part, that's what the cooking at Moonrakers in Alfriston manages. At this point
I would love to tell you that it is named after arguably the worst of the James
Bond franchise (though, as a 12-year-old, slumped in a seat at the flicks in
Weymouth during one summer holiday, I loved Moonraker. James Bond! In a safari
suit! In space! With lasers and everything!). Instead, apparently, it takes its
name from the local smugglers' habit of raking the river by moonlight for
contraband. How disappointing.

No matter. It has been running for years, with variable quality, but was taken
over recently by Robin Bextor, a television producer and director, who still
occasionally shoots the videos for his daughter Sophie Ellis-Bextor, and spends
the rest of the time down here tending to his little bit of England. Not that
England is what you think of when looking at the menu. At lunch there is a
three-course menu at a very reasonable £ 15, with three choices at each course,
and there is very little to unify the dishes. They feel at times like a bunch of
things your mate, who can cook a bit, has refined over years of trial and error
- though in a good way; most of them do the job well.

Herring roes, seared off in brown butter, are soft and creamy inside and a
little crisp on the outside. A soup of celery root, its smoothness testament to
a few turns through the chemise, carried a dollop of brisk apple puree. More
left-field were some hunks of pork belly, long braised in a Chinese-style
anise-infused liquor, with a few sprightly chillies and pine nuts. Very nice -
hell, it's pork belly; what's not to like? - but a non sequitur for all that.

Mains had the same curious "these are a few of my favourite things" feel: an
exceptionally well-cooked and perfectly seasoned piece of lemon sole, served on
the bone, for the pescatarians. For the meat eaters it was half a poussin, the
appeal of which I have never understood. Let the chicken live a little and
develop a bit of flavour. Still, it was solidly executed and came with some very
fine pieces of salsify. The vegetarian option was simply hilarious: a walnut and
sage omelette. Oh sure, it was a nice omelette, carefully presented. The
flavourings - those nuts, that herb - suggested care and attention to detail.
But it was still a bleeding omelette. Can you imagine the twitch in the corner
of the eye of unwitting vegetarians on seeing that on the menu. What? You don't
do flesh? Oh sod it, I'll just beat up some eggs.

There was, as there often is, salvation at dessert: an iced white chocolate
parfait, delivered on a plate sprinkled with crumbs of coconut, shavings of
cocoa and granules of sugar to add texture, a deep dense chocolate pot and some
rhubarb, still with a little bite and acidity, with a light custard. But the
image that will stay with me came after this, when, being the thoroughly
metrosexual male that I am, I asked for a mint tea. Of course, said our charming
waiter, who

slipped back inside, only to reappear with a pair of scissors with which to snip
away at the foliage around us for my infusion. And with that, a part of that
lovely view, a few leaves of England, became my lunch.

jay.rayner@observer.co.uk

Jay Rayner's The Man Who Ate the World is out in paperback, priced £ 8.99
(Headline Review)


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 24, 2009

Comment: Europe might be a better place without the contemptuous, indifferent
British

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1214 words


There's an election going on for the European Parliament, complained my niece
the other night - but it's invisible. She is a twenty-something, politically
engaged but floating voter in search of a contest. But there is almost no
campaign literature, no billboards, nor stickers in windows. There's nothing. "I
don't know what's at stake," she said, "what the choices are, who to vote for.
But I want to use my vote properly. It is really disappointing."

She's right. This year's elections for the European Parliament are even more low
profile than 2004's and they were hardly thrilling. The Lib Dem and Labour Euro
manifestos dutifully roll out the advantages of European engagement - working
together on climate change, addressing the banking crisis, fighting
people-trafficking, entrenching rights at work etc, etc - but the authors know
they have a struggle.

There is no passion for Europe for Europe's sake - only routine calls to make
"the EU work for Britain", as Labour says. The inference is obvious: but for
doughty Labour, the EU would be against Britain. Untrue, defensive and hardly an
inspiring call to arms.

The Conservatives have passion, but not for the EU. David Cameron's message is
not that voters should vote for a Tory MEP to get anything done in the European
Parliament - it is to put more pressure on Gordon Brown to hold a referendum on
the Lisbon constitutional treaty now. In any case, as his party will not be
sitting with the centre-right grouping in the European Parliament but either as
independents or with a rag bag of east European MEPs with less than progressive
attitudes towards gypsies, homosexuals and Jews, it will not matter much what
Tory MEPs think on anything.

It is a dismal prospect all round. Apart from the retiring Glenys Kinnock, the
name recognition of British MEPs is pathetically low. They don't appear on radio
and television, don't campaign on local issues and are lucky to get asked to
speak at school speech days. They are an invisible political tribe at an
invisible parliament. The political parties judge it not worth the effort or
cost to distribute leaflets to every household. Turn-out will be poor and voters
will vote on national issues. Why bother?

The European Parliament may not be the seat of even a semi-European government,
nor ever will be. But it matters. It holds the European institutions to account
- from the European Commission to the European Central Bank. It scrutinises
proposed legislation from the European Commission. It can dismiss commissioners
and the commission president. It cannot rival a national assembly like those of
Britain, Germany or France in importance, but it is a relevant institution none
the less and we have the chance to vote for who is in it. We should exercise it
and the parties should make more effort to win our vote.

Although there is widespread cynicism by the political elite and the mainstream
media, voter turn-out jumped sharply in Britain in 2004, up to 38.5% from a
miserable 24% in 1999. A total of 17 million cast their votes, not that many
fewer than the 17.7 million in Europhile France. The low 24% was something of an
aberration - it was 36% in 1994 and has been trending higher ever since 1979
while European turn-out rates have fallen over the same period. The British
could be engaged in matters European if anyone dared to lead them.

Part of the problem is that the European Parliament, despite its considerable
formal powers, is too damn reasonable and too damn unideological. There is no
cut and thrust between parties with a continental mandate committed to very
different visions of Europe engaged in vital argument with a European Commission
with real clout and real money.

Pro-Europeans like to boast that more than half our legislation is now made in
Brussels, so simultaneously sparking a new round of Euroscepticism and
overstating the importance of the entire EU having, say, common standards on the
chemical content of petrol or on airline flying rights. On what gives politics
its guts - education, health, welfare, transport, tax, defence, foreign policy,
morality, MPs' expenses, the powers of local government, justice, criminal law -
national governments jealously guard their autonomy, enormously helped by
Britain which ever since we joined has done as much as possible to stop the
European cause in its tracks. Only on competition and trade policy, along with
agriculture, do European institutions have real power. Progress on climate
change and terrorism, while important, is mainly negotiated between governments.

So the elections are essentially for a still- forming institution that monitors
bread-and-butter issues which, out of sheer practicality, need to be tackled on
a continental scale. Yet even over these the majority of Tories are nihilist and
would rather obstruct the whole enterprise than be constructive.

Who needs Europe, they ask, and while it may be modest now, what of its
longer-term, dark ambitions? Britain should aim to be a super Switzerland
committed to free markets, financial services, private schools and minimal
government.

Europe remains the Tory modernisers' blind spot. David Cameron and William Hague
must know the risk they are running. They know, or should know, that a
referendum on the EU constitutional treaty once every member state has signed
it, as is likely this autumn if the Irish vote yes in a second referendum, is a
European suicide note; 26 other countries are not going to spend another three
years ratifying another treaty amended to meet David Cameron's and his party's
prejudices. They are condemned to tell Britain that while some cosmetic
concessions may be made, essentially the body of the treaty must stand.

If the British hold a referendum and there is a no vote, then the consequence
will be that Britain must withdraw from the EU. So either this is a one-off
stunt which the party leadership knows it must retreat from once the treaty is
signed off or a ploy it knows will lead to a yes or no vote on de-facto European
Union membership within two years of winning next year's election. Either way,
it hardly inspires much confidence.

So these European parliamentary elections really matter. Ukip will do well. The
Conservatives will do better than 2004, but not as well as they need to win a
general election. Along with the BNP, the opinion polls suggest that more than
50% of the vote will go to anti-EU parties. I'm not sure the British know the
consequence of their vote, but a dynamic is in train that will lead to our exit
from the EU.

As a pro-European, I don't want this to happen, but I've begun to wonder whether
it wouldn't be better for Europe. Only living outside the EU as the sceptics
want - creating a politically diminished Britain fit for hedge funds,
tax-avoiders and asset-strippers - is likely to convince the British majority
that the option is a disaster.

Meanwhile, the Europeans can deepen the EU, along the way empowering the
European Parliament. When a Tory government leads an impoverished, embittered
Britain back into the EU in 25 years' time, reality will have imposed political
maturity. And elections for the European Parliament will be much more serious.
Then they really will warrant bumper stickers, TV debates, hustings and the
attention of the whole nation.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 24, 2009

Home: News: Ukip leader boasts of his £ 2m in expenses: Farage used EU
allowances to finance his eurosceptic message

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 541 words


The leader of the UK Independence party (Ukip), which wants to lead Britain out
of the EU, has taken £ 2m of taxpayers' money in expenses and allowances as a
member of the European Parliament, on top of his £ 64,000 a year salary.

Nigel Farage, who is calling on voters to punish "greedy Labour, Conservative
and Lib Dem MPs" at the European elections on 4 June, boasted of his personal
expenses haul at a meeting with foreign journalists in London last week.

The admission threatens to flatten a bounce in the polls for Ukip that has seen
the party climb to around 17% over the last fortnight as angry voters flock to
smaller parties regarded as untainted by the Westminster expenses scandal.

During a debate about Europe at the Foreign Press Association - which was
discreetly taped by the hosts - Farage was asked by former Europe minister Denis
MacShane what he had received in non-salary expenses and allowances since
becoming an MEP in 1999.

"It is a vast sum," Farage said. "I don't know what the total amount is but - oh
lor - it must be pushing £ 2 million." Taken aback, MacShane then joked: "Is it
too late to become an MEP?"

Farage insisted that he had not "pocketed" the money but had used the "very
large sum of European taxpayers' money" to help promote Ukip's message that the
UK should get out of the EU.

When asked later by the Observer to justify how he could claim so much while
running a campaign attacking Westminster MPs for their extravagance, Farage was
unapologetic, saying that, while MEPs were "very expensive", he was entirely
happy that the money had been used for the best of causes."

Last night, as Ukip circulated new party literature saying Westminster MPs had
"ripped off taxpayers", Farage, who employs his wife to help run his office and
pays her from his allowances, faced a backlash as opponents accused him of
hypocrisy. MacShane suggested that Ukip's attempt to pose as more honourable on
expenses than other parties had been exposed as shameless and hollow.

"Far from being the party of the little man in Europe, Nigel Farage's astounding
£ 2m raid on the taxpayer shows he is up there with any other politician, happy
to line his pockets with gold," he said.

Ukip's opponents now hope the admission will halt the party's advance which
Farage's supporters believe could see it overtake Labour and secure second place
in the European poll.

At the last European elections in 2004, Ukip enjoyed its greatest success,
installing 12 MEPs in the European Parliament after securing 16.1% of the vote.

But the success rapidly turned sour as one of the dozen, Ashley Mote, was
expelled from the party - and later jailed - for benefit fraud. Another, Tom
Wise, is now facing prosecution for alleged false accounting and money
laundering relating to his EU expenses. He denies the charges. Television
presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, who won the East Midlands for Ukip, later left to
form another eurosceptic outfit, Veritas.

With the pressure on all parliamentarians mounting, Farage insisted on Friday
that from next month all his MEPs would publish their expenses online. "From the
moment any Ukip members get elected, all elected MEPs will provide a clear and
traceable quarterly statement of their expense accounts," he said.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 24, 2009, Sunday

GREATER BRITAIN;
 FED-UP WITH SCANDALS AT THE CORE OF OUR SOCIETY? ANGRY THE 'SYSTEM'

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 629 words

HIGHLIGHT: TOP CHOICE: Johnson should be PM


THE scandal over MPs' expenses has brought Britain to a crossroads.

The choice is to allow the bad old ways to continue.

Or opt for the biggest constitutional upheaval since Oliver Cromwell to
construct a new Britain in tune with the 21st Century.

Today your politically independent People says no change is no option.

Change must begin with Gordon Brown's removal as Prime Minister. He should be
replaced by the only credible Labour candidate, Health Secretary Alan Johnson.

As Mr Johnson would be the nation's second PM unelected by the people, he must
call an immediate General Election.

Voters would be wise to use the poll as a verdict on their own MP, voting
tactically rather than on traditional party lines.

If your Labour MP is a crook vote Conservative or Lib Dem. If your Tory grandee
has a taxpayers' duck afloat on his moat vote Labour. But please do vote. Not
turning out gives succour to BNP and UKIP nutters. Handing them any power will
only make a bad situation worse.

The new Parliament must immediately begin the task of reform for the next one.

The number of MPs should be cut from 646 to 400. That will save £60million a
year.

Parliaments of fixed fouryear terms must be introduced so the date of the
General Election is no longer in the gift of the ruling party.

The House of Lords should be abolished and replaced by 200 elected senators,
with half of them up for election every two years.

Workers And the Speakers of both Commons and Senate must be elected by the
people now that Michael Martin has brought the office into disrepute.

Parties with more than 50 MPs would each put forward a Commons candidate. A
party with at least 25 senators would nominate for the Upper House.

When the right technology exists we would use the internet or texts to vote in a
referendum to decide who gets the jobs.

The sickening bonus culture infecting big business must be brought to an end by
law. If directors want to award themselves, say, 20 per cent pay rises then that
is what they must give their workforce. If a company can afford only two per
cent across-the-board increases for workers that is what it must be in the
boardroom.

Abolition of the Lords will stop 26 bishops acting as lawmakers. It will lead to
the separation of Church from State and make Britain a secular nation like
America and France.

When Henry VIII nationalised the Church he handed it vast wealth and the land it
stole is worth £1.7billion today.

So the Church of England's cash must be nationalised again to be used to
preserve the ancient buildings which are so much our heritage.

But a secular country would take a key constitutional pillar away from The Queen
as Defender of the Faith. Calls for a republic would grow.

They must be resisted. The Queen's position as Head of State must be enshrined
in the new constitution.

That way the armed forces, secret services and police remain Crown servants,
owing their allegiance to the country rather than the Government.

It is the best protection there is against dictatorship.

Proportional representation must replace first-past-thepost. That would lead to
concensus government better reflecting the will of the people.

This is WHY The People declared itself politically independent. It is HOW we
will best campaign on your behalf.

It is OUR contribution to a new and fairer Britain.

And the work of building it must begin now.

Key points

Sack Brown and make Johnson the new PM Immediate election ... Proportional
Representation Cut number of MPs from 646 to 400 Replace the Lords with elected
2nd chamber Turn UK into a secular society Have thepeopleelect Give workers same
rise as boss... end bonus fix theSpeaker Retain HM The Queen

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              93 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Churchill's family angry at UKIP hijack

BYLINE: Stuart MacDonald

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 486 words


THE grandson of Winston Churchill has described as "grossly offensive" the use
of his grandfather's image on European election material published by the UK
Independence party.

Churchill's image appears on billboard posters in his characteristic two-fingers
salute, while exhorting the public to "Say No to paying the European Union
£40m-a-day" by voting UKIP.

The party says it chose Churchill, who was an MP for Dundee for 14 years, for
the campaign because he is a symbol of British sovereignty. Its election
campaign is based on opposing what it claims is "unlimited immigration, a £40m
daily EU bill and EU control of our lives".

Sir Winston Churchill, the former prime minister's grandson, said his
grandfather was pro-European and would not have been associated with the
right-wing party.

"I find it grossly offensive that they would seek to use my grandfather's image
and imply that he would be a member of their party and would support their
position," he said. "Ironically he was one of the founding fathers of European
unity and he was foremost in calling for Europe to unite. The theme of one of
his great post-war speeches in Zurich in 1946 was the need for Europe to unite.

"There was no question of them having the courtesy to ask the family if we had
any objection but there seems to be no way of stopping it.

"This will catch the eye of a lot of people, that's for sure, because he's the
most instantly recognisable political figure in the world. I hope most people
are smart enough to see through it and realise that my grandfather has been dead
for nearly 45 years now and them or any other party trying to pray him in aid so
many years after his death is farcical."

Churchill, 68, a former journalist and Conservative MP, said the family felt
powerless to stop the material being circulated as they did not have control
over images of their famous relative. He said they were unwilling to take legal
action because previous attempts to protect the image rights of deceased public
figures, such as Princess Diana, had failed.

Nicholas Soames, the Conservative MP and also Churchill's grandson, complained
to the Electoral Commission in March after the British National Party used a
picture of Churchill in campaign leaflets.

The 61-year-old said it gave the impression that Churchill would share the BNP's
beliefs when he would "never support a party whose platform is hate".

UKIP is hoping to add to the nine seats it holds at the European Parliament at
the elections on June 4. A spokesman for the party said they had paid for the
image rights and insisted Churchill was against Britain's involvement in Europe.

"There are many quotes from Winston Churchill saying that we should not be part
of Europe so they (the family) obviously don't know their illustrious forebear
that well," he said.

"We are sorry if Mr Churchill's family feel they have been ignored but we feel
we went about things in the right way."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Churchill's grandson opposes UKIP using his image

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 3

I am getting quite close

BYLINE: EMMA DUNCAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 143 words


I am getting quite close to Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP. We haven't yet
been introduced, but he sends me e-mails promising me "one last push" and
warning me against Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, a consummate "political
operator".

It's possible that he writes to other women as well, but I like to think that a
special intimacy is growing between us, though he asks me for money
embarrassingly often, and I think somebody should have a word with him about his
suits.

His e-mails suggest a parallel between the BNP and the Judaean People's Front in
Monty Python's Life of Brian: they hate close rivals (UKIP, the People's Front
of Judaea) more than powerful enemies (the government, the Romans). Which raises
the obvious question: who, in the BNP's version of the story, is Jesus? Who has
been sent to redeem us? I think Nick and I know the answer to that ...

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 4

I am getting quite close to Nick

BYLINE: EMMA DUNCAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 143 words


I am getting quite close to Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP. We haven't yet
been introduced, but he sends me e-mails promising me "one last push" and
warning me against Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, a consummate "political
operator".

It's possible that he writes to other women as well, but I like to think that a
special intimacy is growing between us, though he asks me for money
embarrassingly often, and I think somebody should have a word with him about his
suits.

His e-mails suggest a parallel between the BNP and the Judaean People's Front in
Monty Python's Life of Brian: they hate close rivals (UKIP, the People's Front
of Judaea) more than powerful enemies (the government, the Romans). Which raises
the obvious question: who, in the BNP's version of the story, is Jesus? Who has
been sent to redeem us? I think Nick and I know the answer to that ...

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Your love nest isn't much of nest egg, Mr Blunkett;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 162 words


Here's bad news for anybody planning to sell a politically awkward second home
in London: the market in politically awkward property doesn't seem too good at
the moment. The Home Office is struggling to shift the former home secretary's
grace and favour residence in South Eaton Place, near Sloane Square. A year ago,
when the sale was first considered, the price was "over £5m". Now the
six-bedroom house, where David Blunkett enjoyed career-ending canoodles with his
married lover, Kimberly Quinn, is valued at £4m. Would it help if they put in a
moat?

The arrival of Frank Carson to the ranks of UKIP was the cause of much mirth at
Holyrood where his jokes bridged the political divide last week. The favourite
was: "Woman walks up to an ice cream van and sees the ice cream man on the floor
of his van covered in ice cream, chocolate sauce with hundreds of thousands.
Woman behind asks, 'What's wrong with him?' Woman in front replies, 'Oh, he's
just topped himself.' "

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1

I am getting quite close to Nick Griffin

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 143 words


I am getting quite close to Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP. We haven't yet
been introduced, but he sends me e-mails promising me "one last push" and
warning me against Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, a consummate "political
operator".

It's possible that he writes to other women as well, but I like to think that a
special intimacy is growing between us, though he asks me for money
embarrassingly often, and I think somebody should have a word with him about his
suits.

His e-mails suggest a parallel between the BNP and the Judaean People's Front in
Monty Python's Life of Brian: they hate close rivals (UKIP, the People's Front
of Judaea) more than powerful enemies (the government, the Romans). Which raises
the obvious question: who, in the BNP's version of the story, is Jesus? Who has
been sent to redeem us? I think Nick and I know the answer to that ...

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1

He has a finger stub in every derring-do pie;
PROFILE RANULPH FIENNES ; The action man who once took a saw to his frostbitten
hands has just scaled Everest at 65 but finds domesticity a bit of a challenge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1512 words


He has been called incorrigible, indefatigable and just plain daft. At the time
of life when most of us would be enjoying the benefits of a free bus pass, old
age pensioner Ranulph Fiennes has made it third time lucky in his attempts to
scale the world's highest mountain.

He achieved this feat despite having had a heart attack, triple bypass surgery,
prostate cancer treatment and a previous attempt stopped by a critical angina
attack at 28,000ft.

But then for a man who cut off the ends of his own fingers in his garden shed
with a Black & Decker saw - deliberately (because they were dying of frostbite
incurred pulling his sledge out of the Arctic Ocean) - it's just a rather good
day at the office.

The biggest challenge in the improbable life of the 65-year-old Sir Ranulph
TwisletonWykeham-Fiennes, who relatively recently became a father for the first
time, is changing nappies: "It's a different mindset," he has admitted.

Domesticity is hardly the major suit of a man who has been round the globe, pole
to pole, without leaving its surface, walked across Antarctica and run seven
marathons in seven days on seven continents, all because he couldn't think of
another way to make a living.

A craggy-faced, blunt-speaking man of aristocratic lineage, Fiennes ("Ran" to
his friends) is a flourishing example of a style of British eccentric the world
has long thought extinct, a rarer breed than the Abderdeen Angus cattle on his
Exmoor farm. In the course of an extraordinary lifetime he has raised nearly
£20m for medical charities, and at the same time made himself a wealthy man from
books and lectures about his death-defying exploits.

Not everyone has always been impressed, however. When he and fellow adventurer
Mike Stroud had to be rescued, starving and frostbitten, from the edge of
Antarctica, Anne Robinson described the exploit as a "tiresome and unnecessary
risk", and asked: "Does it not strike you as odd that in order to help one group
of physically challenged individuals [in this case multiple sclerosis sufferers]
two previously fit human beings must nearly cripple themselves to death?" Had
she not been a kindred spirit, Ginny, his first wife, might have agreed, at
least at the time she emerged from the bathroom shouting, "What is this?" when
the top of one of her husband's frostbitten toes had come off in the tub and
he'd left it sitting on the side.

For all his charitable endeavour, the real reason for Fiennes's unremitting
challenges to the natural world - and his own body - is it is not so much what
he does, as who he is.

Fiennes, 3rd Baronet, was born on March 7, 1944, only weeks after the death of
his father, also called Ranulph, at the battle of Monte Cassino. He was brought
up by his mother, who told him stories about her dashing officer husband. The
family moved to South Africa after the war but came back when Fiennes was 12, to
send him to Eton. Despite a morbid fear of heights - which haunts him to this
day, provoking him time and again to challenge it - he joined in the illicit
sport of roof climbing: "It was always at night, so you couldn't see the drops."

Following in his father's footsteps, he joined the Royal Scots Greys, but lacked
the necessary A-levels to get into Sandhurst. Based in Germany, he got bored
with peacetime drill and trained as an army ski instructor and canoeist, which
meant he spent three months each year in the Bavarian Alps and another three on
the Rhine and the Danube.

Inevitably he drifted into the dangerseeking ranks of the SAS, specialising in
explosives. But he went too far in demonstrating the skills the army taught him
when he used them on an ugly dam, built by producers of the 1967 film Doctor
Dolittle, in the Wiltshire village of Castle Combe. He was fined and thrown out
of the SAS, then seconded to Oman where the sultan was facing a communist
rebellion. While there he became fascinated with the beautiful Dhofur region and
its legend of a lost frankincense-trading city called Ubar.

Back in civvy street, he immediately linked up again with Virginia "Ginny"
Pepper, his childhood sweetheart whom he had known since she was nine and he was
12. Ginny, cut from the same cloth, was organising an expedition up the White
Nile by hovercraft. Fiennes signed up straight away.

Realising there was more scope for the outdoor skills he had acquired than his
explosives knowledge, he led a parachute-dropped expedition down a Norwegian
glacier the next year and followed that by joining Ginny in an epic river
transnavigation of British Columbia. By then they were already married, both
serving in the Territorial Army and working in pubs to make ends meet while they
dreamt up ever more exotic and challenging expeditions.

It was Ginny who over seven years planned and organised the exploit that would
make her husband's name: the 1979-82 Transglobe Expedition. Fiennes and fellow
former SAS comrade Charles Burton set out from Greenwich on a 52,000-mile
journey by land and sea that would make them the first people to have reached
both poles by land.

Ginny was base leader, responsible for communications, and was awarded the Polar
Medal for her work on low-frequency radio transmission for the British Antarctic
Survey.

But the pair were equally in love with the parched deserts, particularly Oman.
Despite having bought a farm on Exmoor - Fiennes's books about his adventures
were selling well - they also organised four expeditions to Oman to find Ubar,
dubbed by TE Lawrence as the "Atlantis of the sands". Finally, in 1992, helped
by photography from the space shuttle, they located the ruins in a collapsed
limestone cavern almost underneath their base camp.

The following year, Fiennes teamed up with Stroud for their 90-day trudge across
Antarctica that so incensed Robinson. In 2000 an attempt to walk solo and
unsupported to the North Pole failed when his sledges crashed through thin ice.
Fishing them out with his hands caused the frostbite that ended up in the garden
shed amputation of the ends of four fingers and half his thumb.

The last took two days because, "it was thicker". His doctor had insisted he
wait five months to let new flesh grow below the necrotising ends but Fiennes
couldn't stand it: "I was walking around with these horrible-looking digits. You
can't touch anything, if you do it's unbearable. I thought, 'Why not just get
rid of the mummified bits?'" It seemed his body was finally protesting it had
had enough when, sitting on an easyJet plane at Bristol airport in 2003, he
suffered a mammoth heart attack. Triple bypass surgery saved his life. Fiennes's
way of saying thanks was to enter the Land Rover 7x7x7 Challenge to raise money
for the British Heart Foundation. On successive days he ran full-length
marathons in Patagonia, the Falklands, Sydney, Singapore, London, Cairo and New
York.

He collapsed and needed oxygen after Singapore, but recovered enough "after a
cup of tea" to complete the last two, though he now admits the whole thing was
"a stupid idea". His success was shattered by the diagnosis, on the day after he
returned home, of Ginny's stomach cancer. She died three months later.

In his grief, he threw himself into a lecture tour around the country, which
included Cheshire where the adventurer who hates his own company met Louise
Millington, a horse trainer 22 years his junior. They were married in 2005 and
Fiennes's first child, Elizabeth, was born a year later.

His new wife probably knows better than to try to stop him, even if it means her
duties go further than most, including running round base camp at Everest on his
first climb in 2005, making sure he had his heart pills with him.

Within two years he was tackling his fear of heights by climbing the north face
of the Eiger in Switzerland, one of the most dangerous ascents in the Alps. He
was back on Everest a year later, once again to be stymied, this time by bad
weather. He swore he would never go back, which probably made this year's
attempt inevitable. Fiennes said he returned because by not making the top he
only made £2.6m for Marie Curie Cancer Care instead of £3m.

Having been a British flag carrier in so many extreme situations, those who wrap
themselves in it have tried to co-opt him. His 2005 Everest expedition was
part-sponsored by Paul Sykes, the multi-millionaire who once bankrolled the
United Kingdom Independence party, but Fiennes has so far shied away from the
suggestion he stand for UKIP.

It might all have been so different: back in the 1970s he made it to an audition
to find a replacement for Sean Connery as James Bond. Albert "Cubby" Broccoli,
the movie mogul, rejected him because his hands were too big and he "looked like
a farmer".

Fiennes made it onto the screen this year, along with John Simpson, the BBC
journalist, and Sir Robin Knox-Johnston, the round-theworld yachtsman, in a
series where they each tried to do the other's job. There were dangers lurking
there too, Knox-Johnston recalled: "Ranulph and I were told we could not light a
Primus stove unless we were supervised." Oh brave new world, that has such
people in it.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1

ALL CHANGE FOR OUR NEW POLITICS;
The MPs' expenses scandal is producing a once in a generation upheaval in the
political parties, write Jonathan Oliver and Richard Woods

BYLINE: Jonathan Oliver ; Richard Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 2673 words


David Cameron was incredulous. "What the bloody hell is a duck island?" he
exploded.

It was Wednesday afternoon and his two most senior aides, Ed Llewellyn, chief of
staff, and Andy Coulson, director of communications, had just crept into the
Tory leader's office to tell him about the latest expenses revelations.

Among the now almost routine disclosures about fishy mortgage claims and second
home "flipping" was one that set new standards for outrageousness. Sir Peter
Viggers, the Conservative MP for Gosport, had put in an expenses claim for the
£1,645 cost of a floating duck house in the garden pond at his Hampshire home.
He had said the structure was to provide sanctuary for his water fowl from
foxes.

Cameron immediately realised that the duck house was destined to join Douglas
Hogg's moat in the rogues' gallery of grotesque claims that have driven
Britain''s voters into a state of collective fury. "Get me the chief!" he
demanded.

The Tory chief whip, Patrick McLoughlin, duly tracked down Viggers to Washington
DC, where he was on a taxpayer-funded "fact-finding mission". The punishment was
swift and brutal.

McLoughlin, a no-nonsense working-class former coal miner from Derbyshire, told
the urbane Viggers he had a simple choice: agree to quit at the next general
election or face the humiliation of being hauled before the party's "star
chamber" on expenses. Viggers, 71, took the former option and became the latest
casualty of a scandal whose destructive power is without precedent in modern
political history.

An analysis conducted by The Sunday Times and Colin Rallings, professor of
politics at Plymouth University, suggests that at least half the current 646 MPs
will disappear from the House of Commons at the next general election either
through retirement, forced resignation or defeat at the polls.

The clear-out could be larger even than 1945 Labour landslide, which saw more
than 300 MPs leave parliament and ushered in a new generation of leaders
including future prime ministers Harold Wilson and James Callaghan.

However out of the current chaos and destruction, the more far-sighted political
leaders are seizing the opportunity to create something new.

For Cameron, there is a chance to clear out the socalled "bed blockers", the
pensionable-age backwoodsmen who stand in the way of him realising his vision of
a young, modern Tory party.

Gordon Brown, who has been slow to respond to the scale of the crisis, now sees
his chance to settle old scores and give the cabinet the shape he wants. Hazel
Blears, for exam-plethe communities secretary who flipped her homes and was
forced to pay back £13,000 in capital gains tax, faces the axe from cabinet only
in part because of her expenses claims. Her previous "YouTube if you want to"
jibe about the prime minister's embarrassing internet broadcasts has not been
forgotten.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Demo-craleader, is grabbing at the opportunity provided
by the ousting of Michael Martin, the Commons Speaker, last week to push his
agenda for constitutional reform. Some Lib Dems even think the chaos provides
excuse to dust down proposals for proportional representation in Westminster
elections. It is a pipe dream perhaps, but a sign of how the political debate
has shifted in just three weeks.

In this fast-changing landscape, who will emerge as the winners and losers from
the great expenses scandal? MOST "lobby-fodder" backbenchers were not dreaming
of new opportunities as they limped home to their constituencies on Thursday for
the Whitsun recess. Many have been broken by personal humiliation in the media.
Others are bewildered by the collapse in public confidence in politicians.

"Is this what I have given up watching my children grow up for?" said a
fortysomething former Labour minister. "I can-nosee any reason to stay on in the
Commons."

According to another former minister, dozens of backbenchers, even ones who have
not been accused of any creative claiming, are set to leave the Commons at the
next election. "It just doesn't seem worth it. Their families hate seeing them
on the front pages," said the former minister.

Party whips estimate that about 170 Labour MPs will retire. At least 38 have
already signalled their intention to do so, joined yesterday by Ian McCartney,
the former party chairman.

While Cameron dismissed claims by the backbench Tory Nadine Dorries that some
MPs were cracking up and could be driven to suicide as "completely wacky", a
senior Conservative whip confirmed that a secret list has been drawn up of
"emotionally vulnerable" MPs.

Labour MPs are particularly concerned about David Chaytor, the Bury North MP,
who claimed £13,000 on a phantom mortgage. His humiliation came days before the
death of his mother, for whom he had been chief carer. This week he is preparing
both for her funeral and an appearance before a Labour disciplinary committee.

The prime minister, meanwhile, is spending the parliamentary break plotting his
summer relaunch and a cabinet reshuffle. Downing Street aides accept that little
can now be done to influence the result of the European elections a week on
Thursday when Labour is widely expected to come third - or perhaps even fourth
behind the UK Independence party.

In the days after the poll, however, Brown will seek to be decisive with a
cabinet reshuffle. He has been here before - in the second half of last year -
when cabinet insurrection almost forced him from office. Then, a dramatic
reshuffle, bringing back Peter Mandelson as business secretary, helped silence
the critics, at least for a while.

Now the prime minister needs to pull another rabbit out of the hat. Expect to
see a return for David Blunkett, the former home secretary, who is likely to be
given a party campaigning role outside the cabinet. Peter Hain, the former work
and pensions secretary forced from office by a police investigation into
political fundraising, could come back as Welsh secretary.

Jacqui Smith, the accidentprone home secretary, has already told Brown she is
ready to leave government.

Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister wrongly accused of involvement in the
Damian McBride smear e-mails, will return to the back benches. He has told
friends he is exhausted by government and wants to see more of his two children.

The big battle in No 10 is, however, over the future of Alistair Darling. Brown
is con-siderinmoving the chancellor and replacing him with Ed Balls, the schools
secretary who was Brown's chief economic adviser at the Treasury.

Some No 10 insiders are aghast at the prospect. "He is blind to the fact that Ed
is a deeply divisive figure with ambitions of his own to lead the party," one
minister said. "Gordon feels he owes Ed and that Ed would get to grips with the
economy better than Alistair."

Last year Mandelson proved to be Brown's salvation. Now he is part of the
problem. The business secretary is determined to push through controversial
plans to part-privatise the Royal Mail despite the threat of revolt from 150
Labour backbenchers. Last week Mandelson met Ken Clarke, his Tory shadow, to
appeal for his party's support in the crucial vote expected next month.

"We are not going to give anything to the rebels which might put off the private
sector bidders," Mandelson is understood to have said. "It must be real reform."

Labour whips shake their heads in despair. "This could be our Maastricht," said
one, referring to the debates over Europe that split the Tory party in the
1990s. "We might get the bill through with Tory party support, but the Labour
parliamentary party would become totally ungovernable."

Under pressure from Nick Brown, the chief whip, the prime minister has been
considering a grand promotion for Mandelson, possibly replacing David Miliband
as foreign secretary.

Reshuffling Darling or Miliband would carry huge risk. Neither wants to move.
Might one of them refuse their new job and quit the government? The prime
minister will have to weigh up his options carefully.

Then there is the Alan Johnson issue. The popular, blokeish health secretary is
being urged by disgruntled Labour MPs to challenge Brown for the leadership.
They hope Johnson's easygoing charm could help limit Labour's defeat at the next
general election.

One backbencher said he had a five-minute conversation with the health secretary
last week about taking on Brown. "I thought it was interesting that he never
said categorically that he would not have a go," said the MP. "Alan simply
expressed concern that he might not be able to beat the Tories." No 10's
strategy is to kill Johnson's ambitions with kindness. "AJ [Johnson] is a great
communicator. He can have any job he wants," said a source.

Alongside these "elective" changes, Brown may also be forced into unwanted moves
because of the expenses scandal. Andy Burnham, the culture secretary, will come
under pressure after the revelations in this newspaper that he did not pay tax
on a windfall he received as a result of renting his second home.

Tony McNulty, the employment minister who claimed on a second home owned by his
parents, is in deep trouble. It is understood that the GMB union is to withdraw
financial support from his local Harrow East party. It might not be a
coincidence that the union's general secretary Paul Kenny lives in McNulty's
constituency.

Friends say Kenny has been annoyed that, while he commutes into work daily using
public transport, the minister is ferried around by chauffeured car. Other
unions are understood to be furious at the scandal and will consider whether to
drop funding for miscreants' election campaigns.

The trouble for Brown does not end there. Female MPs are understood to be angry
that Blears, in particular, has been singled out for criticism - Brown called
her behaviour "totally unacceptable" - while No 10 has staunchly defended Geoff
Hoon, the transport secretary, and James Purnell, the work and pensions
secretary, or even Darling, who all also failed to pay capital gains tax on
second homes.

Downing Street last week put up a legalistic defence of their conduct, insisting
they were in the clear because they had consulted the Inland Revenue over their
property deal-ings. If public anger fails to abate in the next two weeks,
however, Brown may find himself forced to sack one or more of his praetorian
guard.

CAMERON also faces a potential revolt from members of his own party. In the
dining room of a Pall Mall club last week a small group of right-wing Tories and
their friends met for lunch. Dominating the discussions was the sense of
injustice and double standards.

"Why have people like Michael Gove [the schools spokesman] and Ed Vaizey
[culture spokesman] got away with a slap on the wrists when they spent thousands
on furniture bought from Cameron's mother-in-law?" said one MP.

He was referring to the upmarket furniture shop Oka, part owned by Samantha
Cameron's mother Lady Astor, which is popular with Cameron groupies.

"It is like anyone in the Tory party who has grey hair is being taken out and
shot," added one diner.

Cameron's aides had clocked the growing unrest and recognised the need for a
high-profile sacrifice. Yesterday he forced his former chief political adviser
Andrew MacKay to announce his resignation from the Commons. The Bracknell MP was
caught claiming £170,000 for two separate second homes with his wife Julie
Kirkbride, a fellow MP. It is understood he was offered a deal whereby if he
resigned then Kirkbride would be spared disciplinary action.

"Dave was aware that he needed to be seen to lose some-onclose to him, to share
the pain," a Tory aide said.

The forced retirement of Tory MPs will necessarily create a younger breed of
politician after the next election. And with them will come new a flood of new
ideas, which will have new currency given the disgrace of the old order. With a
new Speaker leading the way, they will be able to set about reforming
parliament.

The novelist Louise Bagshawe, Tory candidate in Corby, thinks the silver lining
in the expenses scandal is that the departure of old Tory grandees will open up
opportunities for even more new talent.

"The party was monolithic: 90% white men," she said. "There are a lot of good,
talented young people - men, women, ethnic minority candidates - who are more
than capable of taking on safe seats."

Other rising stars profess a readiness to give voters more power. Jesse Norman,
the Tory candidate in Hereford, is a supporter of "open primaries" - a system in
which all local people have a say in selecting candidates rather than just party
bosses.

"I was selected by open primary," he said. "Anyone could vote and it was a
packed meeting. It meant that when I started to address public issues in my
constituency, I was already speaking from a cross-section of support. We're
going to get more of that."

Zac Goldsmith, the environmental campaigner and Tory candidate for Richmond
Park, would go even further, decentralising power and making more use of
referendums.

"People feel, and indeed are, disempowered," he said. "The answer is to give
them real involvement.

Some issues, like defence, would need to be exempt for obvious reasons, but on a
wide range of local and national issues, people should be able to trigger
referendums. It shouldn't be too easy, but it should be possible. The effect
would be much better-informed and more widespread debate, and better-quality
decisions would be made."

Such reforming zeal is not limited to the Tories. New young candidates in
Labour's ranks endorse similar ideas, believing that the rise of the internet
and the decay of deference demand a new engagement with voters.

Chuka Umunna, the 30-year-old Labour candidate in Streatham, said: "I am really
keen on more public involvement in the selection of candidates.

The power to shortlist candidates could be retained by the party, but you could
consider introducing some public involvement in selecting the actual candidate."

Public fury at the expenses scandal is so strong, says Umunna, that rebellion is
in the air. "This week over 200 mainly young Labour parliamentary candidates,
activists and councillors signed a letter that was sent to the Labour National
Executive Committee, criticising the leadership for not showing a proper lead on
this," he said.

"Could you imagine that happening even 12 months ago?" It is indeed a period of
unimagined realities in Britain's political life. Not least among them is the
public enthusiasm for a snap general election. An ICM poll published yesterday
found that two-thirds of voters wanted Brown to go to the country before
Christmas.

The prime minister is said to be sticking to his long-game strategy, hoping that
the economy will improve in the next 11 months before a poll has to be called.
However it will not take many more moats or duck islands before the public
clamour for an immediate clearout of the Commons becomes irresistible.

Give them a prize

We can exclusively reveal the favourites for the parliamentarian of the year
awards Cheapskate of the year Now the most prestigious award of all. The clear
winner is Laura Moffatt, MP for Crawley. She doesn't have a second home and if
she has to work late she sleeps on a camp bed in her Commons office. Prize: to
be booted out anyway at the election

Most dimwitted interview of the year We're just jealous because he's got a very
big house; it suits him very nicely; and, frankly, it's none of our business
that we're paying for its upkeep. Step forward Anthony Steen.

Prize: an ornamental duck house, donated by Sir Peter Viggers, who doesn't seem
to want it any more

Orator of the year Speaker Michael Martin, for his resignation speech. Not that
you could technically call it a speech, more of a mention in passing: "Order,
order. I'll be off then. Satisfied now?" Prize: a peerage

Special award for the MP with the least insight To Harriet Harman, deputy Labour
leader, leader of the Commons, lord privy seal and minister for women, who says:
"I don't regard myself as a member of the political class." Prize: the removal
of many of those jobs at the next election

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 24, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Angry voters seek solutions beyond the fringe parties;
Bryan Appleyard finds a nation united against the excesses of Westminister, but
confused about where to turn next

BYLINE: Bryan Appleyard

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 1268 words


Municipal incompetence rises from Stoke-on-Trent like smoke from burning tyres.
A lifeless hinterland of vacant lots and random pay-and-displays leads you to
the inevitable shopping centre featuring a disconsolate Debenhams. Stoke was
stripped of its industries - coal, steel, pottery - but, in truth, this is a
political as much as an economic dump.

A Labour council monopoly in 1997 was steadily eroded until an absurd coalition
of all the main parties faced a motley crew of independents and the British
National party. Two directly elected mayors have tried to sort this out, but now
they are going back to a council leader. The last mayor, Mark Meredith, was
arrested earlier this year as part of a police inquiry in alleged corruption.

Albert "Alby" Walker has an office draped with flags, pictures of Churchill and
Enoch Powell and one of Tony Blair as Hitler. He's BNP and a popular candidate
for council leader. There are 60 council seats in Stoke and the BNP has nine of
them, the party's best showing after Barking and Dagenham in Essex.

Walker is also No 2 on the party list for the West Midlands in the forthcoming
European elections - his wife Ellie is No 5 - and prospective parliamentary
candidate. A big player in a small party, he sees the present Duck Island
Meltdown in Westminster as a gift for his party.

"We speak for the silent majority. People now want to get involved. This is when
the corner will be turned. People will realise it's not bad to be BNP. We will
become a massive organisation."

He thinks the party will have at least three, possibly eight, MEPs after June 4.
He's anti-immigration, of course, but he's also angry about the loss of local
industry and jobs.

Unemployment, immigration and little piggy MPs with their snouts in the trough -
be afraid, Brown, Cameron and Clegg, be very afraid.

Small parties such as the BNP are on the rise. In 1998 they took 7% of the vote
in local elections; last year that figure had risen to 15%. Recent opinion polls
suggest they will receive about 40% of votes in the European elections next
month. Old tribal loyalties are melting away to be replaced by new, more
disturbing ones.

There are no local elections in Stoke this time but there are in neighbouring
Newcastle-under-Lyme where Staffordshire county council is up for re-election.

Newcastle is also going down the small party road with four UKIP councillors.
It's nicer than Stoke but the place is in a bad way for all the same reasons.
They've even got their own mini-Duck Island. Local UKIP chairman David Nixon
tells me of inflated councillor allowance claims.

Meltdown is also good for UKIP. "People are so absolutely brassed off with the
three main parties," Nixon says.

The market is closing up and hard rain falls on the shoppers. Brynley McDonald,
63, sells DVDs from his stall. He has always voted Labour, but not this time.

"They've no control over anything - like immigration, it's just chaos," he says.
"I'm thinking about BNP. We look after everybody who comes in and we treat our
own like crap."

Two unemployed men in their fifties are both considering BNP. One was a builder:
immigrants take builders' jobs. His mate, Paul Brooksbank, worked on the
railways until five years ago. He hates what has happened to the industry.

"People don't work for the love of the job any more, the love of the railways."

It is another big theme: the collapse of ethos. That, after all is what has
happened at Westminster where, to quote Flaubert, there are people who would pay
to be bought.

Outside the Golden Lion, the lunchtime smokers and drinkers all want to have
their say. Awful, embittered stories of NHS and welfare persecution tumble out.
Mention expenses and half of them cry: "Snouts in the trough!" Noreen Stanley, a
cleaner, says MPs should get £7 an hour. Here, too, some are veering towards the
BNP, though Noreen and her husband Leon say they will stick with Labour out of
habit, but "they're all the same".

In Wiltshire, where UKIP is strong and visible, the same themes stalk the
leafier lanes. In the small and perfectly formed village of Fittleton, three
UKIPers in their sixties say the expenses scandal is not that big a shock. It
proves what they already knew: the political classes have betrayed the people.
For them the democratic dementia in London is the correlative of the democratic
deficit in Brussels. Tactically it's great news.

"Gary Player," says golfing UKIPer Alan Wood, "said the harder you work, the
luckier you will be. That's what's happened to us with this expenses thing."

The three of them all speak of a better Britain in the immediate post-war period
when public service meant public service. Again it's that loss of ethos.

Nearby Devizes is a "Georgian market town" - a phrase on which converge all the
aspirations of middle England - and here is UKIP European candidate Gawain
Towler, an energetic talkative man with the air of a Georgian buck.

"All the main parties are saying is 'Vote for me, we can't do anything'," he
says. "Eighty per cent of our laws are made in Brussels."

Like the men at Fittleton, he sees expenses as just further evidence of the
betrayals of the political classes. He combines this with a more cerebral
emphasis on libertarianism - British "liberties" as opposed to European "rights"
- and nationhood.

"I just don't want to be governed by people I don't regard as 'we'."

UKIP is no BNP but the basis of its appeal - nationhood, immigration, disgust
with mainstream politicians - is similar.

Nobody mentions the BNP in Wiltshire. But they do mention the Greens, another
minor party that could boom this time round. Nationally, they took 20% of the
Euro vote in 1989 when popular discontent with Margaret Thatcher was peaking.
But Westminster is the issue this time, not the end of the world.

Michael Ancram, the Tory MP for Devizes, commands respect, despite his claims
for his swimming-pool boiler, cleaning and gardening. The feeling here is not
fury but mild regret, a sense of something lost.

Jonathan Cook, a retiree, revisits the familiar theme of the communal paradise
of Britain after the war and says he might vote UKIP in the European but will
probably return to the Tories for the general election. "It is all," he says,
"very disappointing."

Diana Slater, 71, is telling me she regards UKIP as "a bit young and dangerous",
when Towler suddenly reappears. I engineer a street debate in which it becomes
clear that the more abstract aspects of Towler's UKIPery are getting in the way.
Diana looks puzzled.

Towler is getting nowhere.

Slater and her husband Charles will vote for the Guardians, a local party
standing on the single issue of preserving Devizes, at the locals, and the
Tories at the general. This is, after all, a Georgian market town, an issue that
transcends all others.

Even if more politely expressed, the unease nevertheless runs as deep here as it
does in Newcastle. Britain is worse than it was when united in the aftermath of
war. The Duck Island Meltdown is just one more way in which an intelligible,
kind, civilised, neighbourly, ethical, modest nation has lost to be replaced by
... what? A sense of loss and political failure is hardening in the people's
minds into something more forbidding than mere regret. "I don't think it's a
revolution," says Nixon. "It's an awakening."

The people are asking questions that they now know cannot be answered in
Brussels or Westminster. The questions may be specific - about immigration, MPs'
expenses, public services - but they are all one question really: who are we? If
they find no answer, then the future is Stoke-on-Trent, a purposeless,
ill-governed dump.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Walker: expenses row is 'gift'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Time to quit EU

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 229  words


THE woman who nearly brought the European Union to its knees by exposing massive
corruption wants voters to help her get Britain out of it, writes James Murray.

Marta Andreasen, 54, was dismissed as the European Commission's chief accountant
seven years ago after finding hundreds of millions of euros had been siphoned
off corruptly.

Now a UKIP candidate for the south east of England, she wants to return to
Brussels as a politician so she can "make waves".

Ms Andreasen, pictured right, insisted the sums claimed in expenses by MPs are
chicken feed compared to the scale of Euro corruption.

She said: "In Brussels MEPs can claim a travel allowance which is five times the
price of an economy flight, so the rules are aimed at abuse from the start.

"They allow it because the power elite in the EU want compliance from elected
politicians."

Ms Andreasen's sights are set on the powerful figures in the hierarchy of the
EU.

She said: "They look to acquire power and they use taxpayers' money to buy
compliance from the people. You cannot change or reform the EU. The only
solution is to leave it.

"I want to make waves. I want to expose the system and I want to save taxpayers'
money.

"Every day Britain gives GBP 40million to the EU and gets back GBP 12million.

"The ambition of the unelected power elite is to set up a superstate for their
own benefi t. It cannot go on like this."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BNP winners in MP scandal

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 706  words


BRITISH National Party leader Nick Griffin is on course to win a seat in the
European Parliament next month on the back of a tidal wave of public anger over
MPs' expenses.

An exclusive Sunday Express poll conducted in the Salford constituency of
Communities Secretary Hazel Blears revealed the minor parties, including the
far-right BNP, are the main beneficiaries of public disgust with the political
establishment.

The results suggest that Mr Griffin, who has a criminal conviction for inciting
racial hatred, is on course to be elected as an MEP for the North-West region
next month.

The survey of 500 voters showed that Ms Blears would lose her seat because of
revelations that she claimed thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money on three
homes in a single year. She also used a legal dodge to avoid paying more than
GBP 13,000 in capital gains tax, which she has offered to repay.

The Sunday Express survey also suggests that a disillusioned 55 per cent would
not vote at all.

Among those intending to vote, the BNP picked up 38.4 per cent support compared
to 19.2 per cent for Labour. The result, in what was a safe Labour seat, gives
the Tories 13.4 per cent of the vote, the Liberal Democrats 10.7 per cent and
the Greens and the UK Independent Party 7.1 per cent each.

If the result is repeated across the North-West in next month's European
Parliament elections Mr Griffin will be elected to Brussels.

The findings will horrify the mainstream parties and deepen concern about the
fallout from the MPs' expenses scandal.

The Bishop of Bolton last night appealed to voters in the region not to turn to
the BNP. The Right Rev Chris Edmondson said that although the Church had been
"extremely disappointed" by revelations about MPs' expenses, oters should
consider carefully the "core values" of minor parties before making a protest
vote.

In an open letter he rejected the BNP's claim to represent the teachings of
Jesus, adding: "At the heart of Christian faith is the oneness and commonality
of all humankind, created in the image and likeness of God. We cannot support
any party promoting division and the scapegoating of others."

Voters in Salford voiced their anger yesterday at the expenses scandal.

Lifelong Labour voter John O'Neill, 70, is among those who no longer support the
party.

He said: 'I voted Labour last time, but I'd vote BNP now. I honestly think they
would do a better job. Hazel Blears' expenses have done nothing for us - there
are Poles coming in and taking our jobs.

That was the final straw."

Retired docker Cliff Barcroft, 73, said: 'I've voted Labour all my life, but
never again. I will probably vote UKIP but definitely not Labour.

The Sunday Express conducted similar surveys in the crucial seats of Worcester
and Basildon, which also suggested the minor parties are on course to do well.

In Worcester, sitting Labour MP Michael Foster, who claimed GBP 83,594 in second
home expenses over five years, is set to be deposed by the Conservatives, with
the minor parties doubling their vote.

And in Basildon, Gordon Brown's Parliamentary aide Angela Smith is also on
course to be kicked out, picking up only 16.2 per cent support compared to 34.7
per cent for the Tories. The UK Independence Party has 13.8 per cent of the vote
and the BNP has 7.8 per cent.

Salford HAZEL BLEARS

LAURA McGRATH, 23 'I'm not into politics and it's because of things like this.
The whole thing is laughable'

EMMA SLAMON, 18 'She got caught out and was trying to save herself and I think
she should go'

STEVIE ATKINSON, 27 'I didn't vote for anyone last time and my attitude hasn't
changed. They aggravate me' NEVILLE SWANSON, 71 'It will not affect who I vote
for. Elections are about more than just expenses'

JASON TOWERS, 35 'Labour should have changed the expenses system. They don't
deserve my vote this time' ALISON DAVIES, 29 'The MPs have all abused the system
but I see no reason to change my vote from the Tories'

Basildon ANGELA SMITH

MARGARET WERNHAM, 63 'I have always voted Conservative but I'm a bit
disappointed with them'

GBOLAHAN AKINBODE, 52 'I would have wanted to vote Labour but I think the need
for change is imperative' GLENDA TOOKE, 72 'With all the money they are getting
they have upset a lot of people who are out of work'

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown told 'purge' Cabinet of cheats

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 1044  words


GORDON BROWN was under mounting pressure to "purge" his Cabinet of expenses
cheats last night as the scandal claimed its two most high-profile victims to
date.

With speculation mounting that the Prime Minister could be forced to hold an
autumn election, Labour activists demanded a clear-out of ministers who have
abused the ex penses system or used it to "play the property market for personal
gain".

The call, backed privately by many ministers, could see the removal of Transport
Secretary Geoff Hoon, Pensions Secretary James Purnell and Communities Secretary
Hazel Blears. They each used a legal dodge to avoid paying thousands of pounds
in capital gains tax when selling operties they had previously claimed
second-home expenses on.

It came as the expenses row claimed its two most prominent casualties. David
Cameron's former aide Andrew MacKay agreed to stand down at the next election
after speaking to the Tory leader yesterday and a stormy meeting with
constituents.

Former Labour Party chairman Ian McCartney also announced he was standing down
at the next election following revelations about his expenses claims. Peter
Kenyon, on Labour's ruling National Executive Committee, called on the PM to
clear out his Cabinet with "a major reshuffl e or purge" before the European
Parliament elections on June 4.

He said: "Care will have to be taken to ensure Cabinet ministers with a case to
answer are out, and everyone retained and promoted is beyond reproach."

One senior minister last night told the Sunday Express that a "complete
clear-out" was needed of ministers with dodgy expenses claims.

He added: "Ministers, however senior, who are facing serious allegations now
have no credibility in the eyes of the public. The public are furious and, if
these people are still in post at the time of the election, then we will face
meltdown."

Mr Kenyon said he had been deluged with messages from angry activists about the
"anomalies" in the way different Labour MPs had been treated by the Prime
Minister. Mr Brown last week branded the activities of Ms Blears as "completely
unacceptable" but said Mr Purnell and Mr Hoon had no case to answer.

Other Cabinet ministers facing serious questions include Home Secretary Jacqui
Smith, Chancellor Alistair Darling and Employment Minister Tony McNulty.
Speculation was mounting at Westminster last night that the Prime Minister could
be forced to call an October election.

An ICM poll yesterday found that two-thirds of voters want him to hold it before
the end of the year. The poll also found that more than a quarter of voters plan
to cast their ballots for minor parties like UKIP, the Greens and the BNP in
next month's European Parliament elections.

Some MPs have attempted to re-empt damaging claims about their expenses by
giving details to their local newspapers.

Staffordshire Moorlands Labour MP Charlotte Atkins claimed GBP 3,000 for home
security because she feared attacks by hunt supporters. She also claimed GBP
9,383 for a bathroom with designer tiles, saying she needed them because she was
"a member of the ceramics union".

Prisons Minister David Hanson claimed GBP 57.58 for a locksmith after losing his
house keys, and GBP 5,000 towards stamp duty. Welsh Tory MP David Jones claimed
GBP 339 for a satnav device. The Clwyd West MP said:

"I went to see a constituent on Christmas Eve and while I was there it started
snowing. It meant it was diffi - cult to see the road. I have a rural
constituency so I ordered a sat-nav."

Clwyd South Labour MP Martyn Jones claimed GBP 400 a month for food, even when
the Commons was not sitting. Mr Jones, who is standing down at the next
election, said he was too busy to shop cheaply, adding: "I treated it as
covering things like the congestion charge, which can't be claimed for directly,
and the costs of living in London."

Ian McCartney, 58, yesterday became the most senior MP to announce he was
quitting politics in the wake of the scandal. The MP for Makerfi eld, in the
North-West, said he was leaving due to "health problems". But his move comes
within days of his disclosure that he paid back almost GBP 15,000 of his own
expenses claims last year, saying the system had put his reputation at risk.

Items purchased at the taxpayers' expense include an 18-piece dinner set,
champagne fl tes and wine glasses, a GBP 700 dining table and chairs, and two
sofas worth GBP 1,328.

Andrew MacKay agreed to step down after Mr Cameron telephoned him yesterday. It
followed a stormy public meeting in Mr MacKay's Bracknell constituency when he
was repeatedly heckled and jeered.

Mr MacKay ran into trouble after it emerged he had claimed tens of thousands for
a second-home allowance on one property while his wife, Bromsgrove Tory MP Julie
Kirkbride, claimed it for another home.

He said last night: "I would never forgive myself if my candidature distracted
voters from the key issues, and particularly David's rousing call for change. I
understand why people are angry." Tory grandee Sir Peter Viggers yesterday said
he felt "ashamed and humiliated" over his expenses claim for an island to house
the ducks on his pond.

Sir Peter, who was forced to announce he was standing down, described the claim
as a "ridiculous and grave error of judgment". The ducks had never liked the
feature and it was no longer used, he added.

Bernard Jenkin, a former deputy chairman of the Conservative Party, issued a
statement yesterday saying he was "devastated" by allegations that he had used
Parliamentary expenses to pay GBP 50,000 in rent to his sister-in-law, although
she had no mortgage on the property.

Meanwhile, the Sunday Express has established that up to 10 MPs could face
criminal investigations after "fl ipping" second-home claims to new addresses
since July last year when the practice was outlawed.

Labour backbencher John Mann, who drove through the change in the law, said:
"Anyone who has done that to avoid paying capital gains tax has got some major
answering to do because that is a calculated breach of the law. They should be
prosecuted."

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, yesterday warned: "The
continuing systematic humiliation of politicians itself threatens to carry a
heavy price in terms of our ability to salvage some confidence in our
democracy."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

When will Tories speak out on EU4

SECTION: LETTERS; 44

LENGTH: 140  words


I WHOLEHEARTEDLY endorse Stuart Wheeler's article in last week's Sunday Express
("Vote to halt the EU gravy train!", May 17).

This is the man who donated GBP 5million to the Conservative Party because he
supported the then leader William Hague's policy on Europe.

This year he donated GBP 100,000 to UKIP and was subsequently kicked out of the
Conservatives. Why did he do this? Like me and many Conservative voters, we are
still w aiting for David Cameron to pronounce as to what the party's policies
are on Europe.

Come on David! The European elections are only two weeks away and we have heard
nothing. I have had leaflets through my letterbox from UKIP but nothing from the
Tories. As Mr Wheeler says, we are appalled at the misuse of our money by our
MPs, but this pales into insignificance compared to the EU gravy train.

Wendy Simmons, Leeds

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                                 1 Star Edition

DON'T VOTE FOR BNP TO PUNISH MPS;
CHURCH LEADERS IN WARNING ON EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372 words


CHURCH leaders are urging voters not to punish MPs for the scandal of their
expenses by voting for the BNP.

The Archbishop of Canterbury called on people to shun extremist parties and to
use their vote positively in local and European elections on June 4. In an
unprecedented intervention, Dr Rowan Williams joined forces with Dr John
Sentamu, the Archbishop of York, and other religious leaders to condemn the
"deeply disturbing" tactics of the BNP.

Their joint statement, issued today, came after Dr Williams warned yesterday
that the "systematic humiliation" of MPs was a threat to democracy.

The bishops said: "It is a time for great vigilance over how to exercise our
democratic right to vote. The temptation to stay away or register a protest vote
in order to send a negative signal to the parties represented at Westminster
will be strong.

"In our view, however, it would be tragic if the understandable sense of anger
and disillusionment with some MPs over recent revelations led voters to shun the
ballot box."

In a direct attack on BNP leader Nick Griffin and his party, the bishops warned:
"There are those who would exploit the present situation to advance views that
are the very opposite of the values of justice, compassion and human dignity
which are rooted in our Christian heritage.

"Christians have been deeply disturbed by the conscious adoption by the BNP of
the language of our faith when the effect of those policies is not to promote
those values but to foster fear and division within communities,
espe-ciallbetween people of different faiths or racial background."

The bishops urged voters not to back "any political party whose core ideology is
about sowing division in our communities and hostility on grounds of race, creed
or colour".

According to an ICM poll yesterday, just one per cent of voters will back the
BNP - well down on the five per cent the party achieved at the last European
elections in 2004.

UKIP on 10 per cent and the Greens on nine per cent are the fringe parties doing
best from the disenchantment with the main parties over the expenses scandal.

Meanwhile, 50 authors, musicians and academics joined forces to demand a
referendum on a new voting system to clean up politics.

COMMENT: Page 14

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worried.. Bishops Sentamu & Williams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

HOUSE OF ZOMBIES

BYLINE: SATURDAY ESSAY BY MAX HASTINGS

LENGTH: 2067 words


AS BRITAIN TEETERS ON THE BRINK OF BANKRUPTCY AND MPS BECOME EVER MORE
DISCREDITED, WE FACE A YEAR OF POLITICAL PARALYSIS THAT WILL ONLY WORSEN OUR
ECONOMIC NIGHTMARE

WAITING for friends in a London theatre bar on Thursday night, I chatted to a
playwright whom I know slightly. He asked: 'Do you think this is a historic
moment?' I said I was not sure. But we agreed that it is possible.

Neither of us was thinking about moats or duck islands, or even 'flipping'
property allowances, though we shall come back to them in a moment. The big
issue is whether the closure upon a generation of British prosperity signals a
seismic shift in the country's affairs.

I am barely numerate, but I know enough not to be fooled by the spring rally in
the stock market, nor by silly people blethering about green shoots. Sure, the
British economy will stop shrinking, probably some time next year.

But the notion that we can then throw away our umbrellas, as after a heavy
shower, is credible only to people who doubt the reality of climate change. The
Brown Government has wrecked the nation's public finances for a generation.

An economist puts the disaster in perspective by saying that, in real terms, it
has already cost Britain more than any other event in our national history,
except the Napoleonic wars and two World Wars. Payment of the bill is being
delayed only by unprecedented government borrowing.

The horror story is overlaid on the fact that a historic transfer of wealth from
West to East was already under way. In the decades ahead, Europeans and even
Americans are going to be less rich in relation to the big Asian powers than
they have been for centuries.

Britain, in particular, faces a huge challenge in devising means to support
itself through the 21st century, which we cannot possibly meet unless we educate
our children better, and become leaner and meaner.

Finally -- and this is where we get back to moats and duck islands -- Britain's
political class has suffered a devastating blow to its authority. If a
government of any complexion fulfils its essential responsibilities in the years
ahead, it will impose cuts in public spending on a scale unknown in modern
experience.

There are going to be massive job losses, slashed services and facilities almost
certainly provoking protests in the streets. The ministers who make these
decisions and ride the storm of popular anger will require exceptional strength
of character and support from the core of the nation.

But how will it be possible to secure this if the public perceives them as
fiddlers and embezzlers? Just how serious and lasting is the damage inflicted by
the parliamentary expenses scandal not just on the Labour Government which has
presided over it, but on Britain's entire political class?

AMID popular rage, the first instinct is to spurn all the old lot. If Joanna
Lumley stood as a candidate for any parliamentary constituency in England, she
would win handsomely.

Esther Rantzen is only one among a gaggle of celebrity Independents who has
already proposed herself for the Commons, with aspirations to cash in on public
disenchantment with the big parties. Yet if Esther, or even Martin Bell, is the
answer, the question must be wrong.

We simply cannot afford the luxury, at a moment of national peril as acute in
its way as 1940, to consign all our established politicians to the dustbin.
Sure, some richly deserve to go there. We tell each other in the pub that Jeremy
Clarkson could do a better job than Jacqui Smith, Hazel Blears or indeed Gordon
Brown.

But in truth, there has been no moment in recent British experience at which we
have stood in more desperate need of leaders with a coherent vision of where the
country should go. This can come only from one of the major political parties.

Of course, it is tempting to vote for UKIP or even the BNP, or not to vote at
all. But Britain's troubles are too grave to be solved by lunatics or racists,
or by staying away from polling stations. This is a time to make serious choices
about a serious prospective government. Even if some of our politicians are
incapable of behaving like proper people, voters must do so.

It used to seem funny to put a cross on ballot papers for Screaming Lord Sutch
in his days as a professional by-election candidate. But that joke is over.
Either David Cameron or -- heaven help us -- the leader of the Labour Party is
going to be Prime Minister next year and that is that. No Clark Kent figure will
emerge from a telephone box to save the day.

Once the most egregious fraudsters have been purged from both Houses of
Parliament, we and our politicians must set about making the best of each other,
depressing though that prospect may seem. The hard part is that as things stand
we are obliged to endure another year of zombie government before Labour is put
out of its misery.

It seems intolerably frivolous that when so much needs doing, Gordon Brown and
his colleagues cling to their offices. This week, the world's credit agencies
signalled that Britain plc has become a credit risk. The announcement represents
an extraordinary humiliation for a developed economy.

BUT the Prime Minister and his front bench shuffle deck-chairs and make
laughable motions towards shuffling each other. They stumble onward, heedless of
the damage the nation must suffer during the wasted year ahead, in which they
will accomplish nothing.

They are bereft of ideas any more exciting than that of reducing speed limits on
the nation's roads. As with so much done by New Labour with its 3,000 laws in
the past 12 years, this paltry little 'initiative' is about stopping us doing
something.

Many people ask: 'Is David Cameron up to it?' We shall not know until we see.
What we can be sure of, however, is that he is vastly more 'up to it' than
Gordon Brown.

History will judge Brown as the man who, as Chancellor, wrecked Britain's public
finances. It will take decades to undo the damage created by his conviction that
the State knows better how to spend our money than we do, his dramatic expansion
of a public sector we cannot afford.

Our experience with Brown, Darling, Martin and the rest shows that the
experiment of Scottish colonial rule of the United Kingdom has been a disaster
for all save the Scots people, comfortably coupled to the nation's udder in the
Scottish Labour Party's squalid milking parlour.

Cameron seems deserving of sympathy because, in the predicament in which he will
take over the nation, it will not be enough for him to be a good Prime Minister.
He needs to be a great one. Tony Blair, we can see with hindsight, inherited a
cushy billet. The Tories bequeathed him a healthy economy.

From 1997 through the first years of this century, Blair's extraordinary
rhetoric and spin skills, aided by the low cunning of Alastair Campbell and
Peter Mandelson, caused New Labour's balloon to soar.

Cameron, by contrast, takes over a ruined country. He must display extraordinary
powers of leadership to reconcile the British people to the savage measures that
will be essential. He will have no choice about these because the world's
willingness to lend money to fund Labour profligacy is now conditional.

We will get more cash only if the British Government shows a determination to
control its spending, which Brown's will not. By the time the Tories gain
office, Alistair Darling's growth forecasts will be exposed as wastepaper
fantasy and the situation will be even worse. The Tories must pull the shutters
on the public sector almost overnight. The pampered rule of the great army of
state dependents must end. New figures this week show that a career as a civil
servant now yields a fatter pension than a lifetime in a comparable private
sector role. For 12 years, Labour's answer to every appeal, from local
authorities, campaigning minorities, teachers, doctors and health and safety
campaigners has been: 'Give them the money.'

JUDGES and juries collude enthusiastically in lavishing cash on every hard-luck
case who appeals to a court. Public bodies have indulged every kind of expensive
folly in the cause of regionalism, minority rights, 'fairness', of which the
BBC's commitment to move most of its operations to Manchester is only the most
conspicuously demented.

The Government has shelved all the hard, unpopular issues -- such as the need to
start building a dozen nuclear power stations yesterday. Through the era when we
kidded ourselves we could afford it, ministers gave every kind of quango and
agency unlimited credit cards. We sought to show what a compassionate society we
are by dishing out cash like a TV game show.

Now the money has run out, nobody on the Tory benches is under any illusions
about just how unpopular it will be, stopping cheques from which half the
country has benefited directly or indirectly.

When holes in the road do not get filled, rain starts leaking into classrooms
and the first pensioners die for lack of medical treatment denied by 'government
cuts', there will be outrage.

If I were David Cameron looking for a slogan, it would be: 'No more horse
manure.' It is time to come clean. What sensible British people want more than
anything, especially in the wake of the parliamentary expenses scandal, is to be
told the truth.

The buzz words of New Labour -- 'community', 'compassion', 'social justice' and
Gordon Brown's mantra 'I borrow only in order to invest' -- have proved mere
excuses for squandering vast sums of our money without accountability or return.

In Britain's future we shall need less supposed kindness and more realism. We
simply cannot afford the kind of lunacies indulged by the compassion industry,
as reflected in this week's court decision that soldiers fighting on the
battlefield are covered by the Human Rights Act.

It is crazy that public sector workers are getting pay rises this year. It is
crazy that Olympic Games spending has not been ruthlessly cut; crazy that
immediate cuts in pension provisions have not been imposed on all state
employees.

We know why all these things are happening or not happening -- because Labour
policy is aimed solely at winning another election. But the irresponsibility is
breathtaking. Every day that the great spending splurge goes on increases the
ultimate pain we shall face when the Tories have to put it all right.

A lot of people all over Britain -- those with sunny natures and jobs -- still
have not got the message about how much trouble the country is in. They read
headlines about stock market rallies, talk of the recession ending this winter,
and say: 'Oh well, that wasn't so bad.'

In truth, most of the pain is still ahead of us. The Tories acknowledge this,
but won't tell us how they will swing the axe on spending. They fear the damage
to their election prospects if they do.

Yet the British people have had enough of flannel, chicanery, outright deceit.
Downing Street is today inhabited by a Prime Minister in fairyland, who alone
refuses to accept responsibility for disaster and the nation's overwhelming
desire to be rid of him. David Cameron seems to be a genuinely nice man, but to
succeed as Prime Minister he will need to be Mr Nasty.

There is a good argument that rebuilding Britain for the next generation
represents a tougher challenge than that faced by Baroness Thatcher. But
Thatcher showed that, given the will and skill, radical change is possible.

THE ruthlessness with which Cameron has ditched the worst expenses offenders
from the Tory ranks in the Commons is a good omen. He must resign himself to the
fact that, once in power, if he does the right things, he will enjoy few days of
popularity.

But if he tells it like it is and commits himself to breaking the dependency
culture forged by New Labour at such disastrous cost, he will deserve the
support of everyone who yearns for Britain's resurrection.

We have all shared in the humiliation of seeing the nation's politicians shamed,
yet mostly remaining shameless. It is too late for Labour to redeem itself. But
the Tories can do so by rediscovering the arts of leadership and moral authority
which have been lost for a generation.

Once Brown has found his rightful place in a landfill, Britain could indeed
discover a historic turning point, if David Cameron and his colleagues show
themselves worthy to rise to the moment.

To that end, a General Election is not just desirable to rid Westminster of
corruption. It is essential for the future of our nation.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

THE MAN WHO MUST TAKE THE BLAME FOR THIS CULTURE OF LIES AND CORRUPTION

LENGTH: 1412 words


PETER OBORNE ON POLITICS AND POWER

WHEN a very large bomb detonates in a small space, it causes chaos and
confusion. It's impossible to make out the scale of the carnage amid the clouds
of smoke, and the task is made all the more difficult when incoming fire is
still raining down.

Nevertheless, enough time has passed since just such a catastrophe
(metaphorically speaking) hit the Commons, to make some preliminary
observations. The expenses scandal has inflicted very grave damage on the
British Parliament, which will take many years to repair.

We now face a crisis of enormous historical consequence, comparable to the first
Reform Act of 1832, when urgently needed reforms passed through Parliament in
the nick of time to avert revolution.

Just as in 1832, an entire system of government has been exposed as utterly
hollow and corrupt. In the early 19th century, the old arrangement favoured a
venal landed elite which ruthlessly exploited Parliament for its own mercenary
greed and self-interest.

In recent years, as I reveal in my book The Triumph Of The Political Class, a
new political elite has emerged. At first sight, this new elite -- which is
middle class and metropolitan in orientation -- has nothing at all in common
with the corrupt landed aristocracy which enriched itself at public expense in
the 18th century.

But, in fact, it is extremely similar. Like the 18th-century aristocracy,
today's strutting political class has used its privileged position at the centre
of power to steal from the taxpayer, thus enriching itself at the expense of the
rest of us.

It has evolved one set of very lax rules for itself and another for the rest of
us. It is morally and financially corrupt.

Yet, bizarrely, this political class believes that it has a monopoly on virtue
and wisdom (something else it has in common with the 18th-century aristocracy).

Not merely that, but it is wholly contemptuous of the values and beliefs of
ordinary people. Its members are convinced that the rest of us are bigoted,
xenophobic, racist, intolerant and nasty.

The political class finds itself literally unable to understand the values that
appear admirable to most people, such as honesty, patriotism and religious
observance. This new elite has been growing in strength for several decades, yet
its key moment came in 1997 with Tony Blair's landslide election victory.

THERE was a fundamental paradox inside the Blair administration. On the one
hand, the Blair government claimed to represent ordinary voters and indeed
defined itself as 'the political arm of the British people'. On the other hand,
it felt a deep and visceral hostility to traditional British values.

So it faced a choice. It could either tell the British public what it genuinely
believed and try to win a public argument. Or it could lie. Tragically -- and
this decision lies at the heart of the expenses scandal -- the Blair government
chose to mislead the public on an epic scale.

One example was Europe. Tony Blair was fanatically pro-European, but he knew
that most voters were suspicious. So he misled us about his beliefs, even
pledging in one notorious article that he would fight to save the pound.

Another example was immigration. New Labour favoured mass immigration, in part
because its allies in big business wanted to increase their profits by driving
down wages, and in part because impoverished incomers to Britain are more likely
to vote Labour.

But, again, it knew that voters were opposed.

So, in public, Labour home secretaries would denounce immigrants, recklessly
accusing them of 'swamping' British culture, thus licensing some of the vilest
language used today by the BNP. But in private the Government allowed more or
less uncontrolled immigration.

The Iraq debacle was another case in point. Tony Blair was determined to stick
by his ally George W. Bush come what may -- but he did not dare say this in
public.

Instead, he lied about the socalled deadly menace of Saddam Hussein's weapons of
mass destruction and in the process undermined the integrity of the British
Intelligence Service.

There are literally hundreds of examples of this kind of deception, which lay at
the heart of the whole New Labour system of government and, indeed, at the
centre of the scandal surrounding Parliamentary allowances.

The political class has an extremely high opinion of its own abilities and
believes that it deserves to be highly rewarded. However, it never had the
courage to make an honest case to the voters that it deserved more pay.

Instead, it decided to reward itself by quietly voting itself extra allowances
and ever higher office costs (by the way, the scandal surrounding the abuse of
office costs and travel allowances is yet to break).

Politicians would then siphon off the money into property development or into
their private bank accounts. This criminal conspiracy was entered into open-eyed
by all the main British political parties.

Indeed, 18 months ago I wrote privately to many of our political leaders
(including Gordon Brown and David Cameron), providing abundant testimony of the
abuse of allowances, and urging them to restore trust in politics by clearing it
up.

I received at best cursory acknowledgements. One Cabinet minister, Yvette
Cooper, accused me of 'damaging trust in politics' by bringing her use of the
accommodation allowance to the attention of the public. Harriet Harman, leader
of the House of Commons, who is now trying to give such an impression of being
concerned, didn't even reply to my repeated warning letters.

Our rancid political class was so far up to its neck in it that it didn't want
to know.

BRITISH democracy now faces an historic crisis. The gulf between the corrupt
ruling elite and the great mass of ordinary British citizens is today greater
than at any time since the early 19th century.

This means there is one great burning question in our public life. Will the
reform come from within, as it did in 1832? Or will there be some kind of
revolution outside?

At present, there are no signs at all that our political class has even begun to
grasp the scale of the catastrophe of the past two weeks. Yes, Parliament is
electing a new Speaker. But giving MPs the task of choosing their Speaker is
like asking the inmates of Parkhurst to elect their chief warder. The leading
candidates are made up of the very worst kind of expenses cheat.

As for Gordon Brown -- he is finished. He fought a losing battle to save the
Speaker and now he is fighting to save the worst political class profiteers,
like Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and his Cabinet colleague James Purnell.

He is even using Labour chief whip Nick Brown, one of the worst of the expenses
cheats, to mop things up. In truth, Gordon Brown was one of the architects of
the disgusting system of expenses abuse -- and there is no hope while he is
still in power.

There have been many welcome signs that Tory leader David Cameron, unlike doomed
Gordon Brown, has grasped the scale of the problem. Yet there is no moral
coherence in the Tory leader's response.

True, he has ordered the Gosport MP Sir Peter Viggers -- a nondescript Old Guard
Tory -- to stand down as a candidate after claiming expenses for his duck pond,
but this is no sacrifice at all.

Meanwhile, Cameron is fighting to save much more serious offenders such as
shadow Cabinet ministers Francis Maude, Michael Gove and Andrew Lansley, because
they are his allies.

Cameron is looking dangerously like a defender of political corruption. He
should remember there is a national mood of utter revulsion at the amorality,
greed, selfishness and arrogance of our disgusting political class.

When the dust finally settles, we may yet discover that it has destroyed
Cameron's bent Tory Party just as surely as Gordon Brown's grotesque New Labour.

SPOT THE DIFFERENCE

AS I write, Pakistan's F-16 fighter bombers and long-range cannon are
slaughtering thousands of innocent tribespeople in the Swat Valley. Meanwhile,
the Sri Lankan army claims victory after defeating the Tamils through exactly
the same tactics. Yet we denounce Sri Lanka and praise Pakistan. Why?

DON'T VOTE FOR UKIP

NIGEL FARAGE'S United Kingdom Independence Party is shaping up as the major
benificiary of the European elections to be held next month. There is talk that
it could even demote New Labour to a richly deserved fourth place. Yet UKIP's
record on expenses-fiddling is at least as bad as the Tories' or Labour's, as I
will reveal on this page next week. Don't vote for them.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Fact and fiction on planet Ukip;
Neil Tweedie meets the leader of the fringe Eurosceptic party hoping to profit
from the disarray at Westminster

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1321  words


Nigel Farage - what a great name that is. So louche, so caddish, like a baddy in
The Archers. You find yourself repeating it over and over again as you travel to
meet him, stretching the second A in Farage to destruction, as is his
preference. The G is soft, of course, as in mirage. Could the leader of the
Euro-phobic United Kingdom Independence Party be a little bit - well - French?

"Don't think so, no,'' he says. "Thought it might have been Huguenot. No problem
with that - great people, the Huguenots.''

Mr Farage, 45, the leader of Ukip and its senior MEP, more than lives up to his
name. Trim, tanned, dapper, you could imagine him downing Krug in the City
(where he worked as a metals trader), swapping jokes in the officers' mess of a
solid county regiment or selling Bentleys in Mayfair. When we meet, he is
catching a train for Chichester to campaign for votes in the European Parliament
and local elections on June 4.

"Let's sit here,'' he says, plonking himself down in first class. We last two
minutes before the conductor examines our tickets and orders us to second. The
drinks trolley rolls by. "Bit early,'' he says, regretfully.

Mr Farage, who spends some of his spare weekends taking people on battlefield
tours of the Western Front, doesn't mind being thought of as "human''. Leader of
Ukip since 2006, he likes a smoke (cigars and pipes now rather than cigarettes)
and is known to enjoy the odd drink. Then there was a slightly embarrassing
encounter with a Latvian woman he met on a night out in Kent. Mr Farage, who has
four children and whose second wife is German, said he had fallen asleep in her
home after having too much to drink. "Just as simple as that. Not clever,'' he
said in a newspaper interview last year.

His devil-may-care attitude may stem from a near-fatal encounter with testicular
cancer in his youth. A carouser he may be, but he undoubtedly harbours a flair
for presentation - something Ukip badly needs, given what many would regard as
its lack of substance.

Founded in 1993 to campaign for Britain's withdrawal from the European Union,
Ukip is a strange organisation, inhabiting the outer rim of the political
galaxy. The child of anti-European intellectuals ("all very bright - couldn't
boil an egg,'' offers Mr Farage), Ukip became a haven for disaffected Tory
Eurosceptics and, more sinisterly, elements of the far Right.

"The most damaging thing said about us was that we were the BNP in blazers,''
says Mr Farage, who claims to have rid his party of its more extreme members.

Essentially a single-issue party, given to bouts of vicious infighting, Ukip has
threatened to implode on a number of occasions, only to carry on. Now, like the
British National Party, it seeks to benefit from the expenses scandal engulfing
Westminster and the general disillusionment of the electorate. A YouGov poll of
people certain to vote in the European elections published last week put Ukip on
19 per cent, level with Labour and the Liberal Democrats. The Conservatives
registered just 28 per cent, compared with the 40 per cent of votes they can
currently expect to command in a general election. The public's universal
rejection of mainstream parties takes politics into uncharted territory.
Suddenly, Ukip, for all its barminess, appears to be back in the game. But
disaffected voters should think twice before using it as a repository for
protest votes.

The party reached its high-water mark in the European elections of 2004 when it
secured 12 seats in Brussels, but almost immediately things began to go wrong.
Mr Farage, who believes that celebrity has its place in politics, had persuaded
the Labour MP turned television presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk to stand as a Ukip
candidate. He duly won in the East Midlands but stomped out of the party after
an abortive bid for the leadership. His verdict on his erstwhile colleagues?
"Bloody Right-wing fascist nutters.''

Suspicions that Ukip harbours extremists were borne out last year when Annabelle
Fuller, Mr Farage's assistant, began receiving threatening telephone calls. "The
troublesome element saw me as an easy way of attacking Nigel,'' she says.

Known BNP sympathisers included one man who made a donation to the American
Friends of the BNP. Matters culminated in November when a pro-BNP group stormed
into a meeting of Ukip's national executive and offered an alliance in which the
BNP would concentrate on the north of the country and Ukip the south. Mr Farage
told the delegation to get out.

"The BNP have tried to mimic every single thing we do, " he says, clearly irked
by his opponents' attempts to steal his clothes. "Why? They know that if they
are able to show themselves as near to us it would drive away middle-class
voters who would never vote for them but would vote for us.''

The BNP certainly appears to be shadowing Ukip during the campaign. Both
parties' fliers contain Second World War imagery, Ukip using Churchill and the
BNP a Spitfire.

Ukip may not be in an electoral pact with the BNP, but the two parties will
hardly be going head to head in the coming contest. Ukip is fielding 567
candidates in the council elections on June 4, as opposed to 457 from the BNP.
The BNP is free from a Ukip challenge in 80 per cent of the seats it is
contesting, while Ukip has no BNP challenger in 85 per cent of the seats it is
contesting.

Ukip may be seeking capitalise on the expenses imbroglio, but its record in this
area is hardly spotless. Two of its MEPs became mired in scandal almost
immediately after their election. Ashley Mote was expelled from the party and
was later jailed for benefit fraud - he plans to appeal the verdict - while Tom
Wise is facing prosecution for alleged false accounting and money laundering
relating to his EU expenses. He denies the charges.

Ukip's detractors say the party exercises double standards in using its MEPs'
expenses, which dwarf those available in Westminster, to fund anti-EU activity.

A close friend of Mr Farage says the Ukip leader uses his expenses to fund the
party, but does not abuse them personally. "I know he has remortgaged his house
- that's how short of money he is,'' said the friend.

Mr Farage is unrepentant about turning Brussels' money against itself. "We do
what the Salvation Army does. It has objections to alcohol but goes round pubs
on a Friday selling War Cry - taking the devil's money to do God's work.''

Tim Congdon, the Eurosceptic economist, left Ukip earlier this year. "They have
been captured by the European institutions,'' he says. "Ask Nigel Farage how
much time he spends in Brussels and Strasbourg as opposed to here. There are a
lot of good Eurosceptic people in this country who have no contact with the Ukip
MEPs. Ukip has ceased to be about getting the British people out of the EU, it's
about getting a number of individuals into the European Parliament.''

The party also suffers from an age problem, struggling to attract young members
in any numbers. During his visit to Chichester Mr Farage addressed an audience
of about 80, only a few of whom were under 60.

David Cameron has labelled Ukip a collection of "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists'', yet Mr Farage would still do a deal.

"If David Cameron were to come out and say that he was fighting the next general
election on the specific promise that within the first year of government the
British people would be given a fair referendum on whether we stay in this
political union or revert to a relationship based on trading links, I would have
no hesitation at all in saying to Ukip that in that election we should not
contest against his party.''

That isn't going to happen, of course. Mr Farage has said he will resign if his
party wins fewer than 10 seats in Brussels on June 4. If he goes, so will Ukip's
last shred of credibility. Truly then will it have become, as one newspaper said
of Ian Smith's white Rhodesia at the time of UDI, "Surrey with a lunatic fringe
on top''.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Letters & emails

SECTION: LETTERS; 24

LENGTH: 175 words


DAVID Cameron says he wants an immediate election because of the expenses
scandal. But details of fewer than 100 MPs have been published so far, so how
can we fairly judge MPs whose expenses have NOT yet been made public.

Is it just me, or does Cameron sound more and more like a desperate wannabe on a
TV talent show? Maybe he knows something about Tory MPs' expenses that we don't?

PAUL SMYTH, by email.

IF YOU no longer trust any of the political parties, who do you vote for?

H.F. CARTLIDGE, Stone, Staffordshire.

I WILL vote for UKIP in the European elections and lots of my friends plan to do
the same. The main parties have killed democracy in this country.

A. WILLIAMS, Flintshire.

SOCIETY'S problems are not caused by so-called scroungers, such as Susan
Christian and her family, but by greedy rich people who get the best from
society but seem reluctant to pay for it.

The benefi ts system not only keeps the poor going, it also subsidises British
industry because if it didn't exist they would have to pay people a living wage.

PAUL EVANS, by email.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Front: MPs' expenses: ICM poll: Fringe parties set to gain from crisis

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 505 words


Ukip and the Greens are the fringe parties making the most capital from the
political crisis caused by the expenses revelations, the Guardian ICM poll
published today suggests, leaving the BNP in their wake.

The Greens are poised to take 9% of the vote in next month's European elections,
while Ukip are on 10%, leaving the BNP on 1%, down on the 5% the party achieved
at the last European elections in 2004.

There are also clear signs that support for the fringe parties may grow further
between now and polling day on 4 June, at Labour's expense. Asked whether they
would vote on domestic or European issues, voters seemed ready to regard the
election as a chance to pass a verdict on Westminster. About 63% said they would
vote "mostly" or "entirely" on domestic issues, nearly three times as many as
the 22% who indicated that Europe would be their chief concern. The
Conservatives are on 30% and Labour on 24%.

Ukip may be well-placed for a return to the level of support that helped the
party perform strongly in European elections five years ago.

"A recent poll put 55% of the British public wanting our relationship with the
EU to be a trading one only," said Gawain Towler, Ukip's candidate for the
European parliament in the south-west of England.

The daily drumbeat of bad news stories about the expense habits of establishment
politicians has undoubtedly worked in Ukip's favour.

Norman Tebbit, a former Conservative party chairman, encouraged Tory and other
mainstream voters to go elsewhere in protest, but not to the BNP. Kelvin
MacKenzie, the Sun columnist, dubbed Ukip the "bloody nose party".

In the last European elections Ukip won 12 seats, beating the Liberal Democrats
into third place.

Towler said a large part of the current boost for Ukip would be the return of
2004 voters - following the lead of former Tory donors, such as Sir Stuart
Wheeler, who feel David Cameron's euroscepticism doesn't go far enough and
insisted their return wasn't all down to Tebbit.

At Ukip HQ, phone canvassers said they were picking up on dejected Labour
supporters. Ukip has only a little polling evidence to support this but is
sufficiently confident that it is reported to be spending £2m targeting Labour
voters.

The party is helped by new-look candidates, such as Deva Kumarasiri in the East
Midlands - sacked from his post office job after refusing to serve someone who
couldn't speak English - who talks to the worries of the white working class
about immigration.

The party is also exploiting new media. Ukip now gets more hits on Twitter than
any other political party. Firms that monitor internet sites have found more
mentions for Ukip than any other party.

The BNP is fighting back - saying Ukip is as bad as the establishment when it
comes to financial affairs.

Ukip does have a problem on this front. Ashley Mote, elected MEP for south-east
England went to jail in 2007 for falsely claiming £65,000 in benefits.

Last month Tom Wise, another Ukip MEP, was accused of misusing £40,000 in
expenses and charged with false accounting.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Britain - A new challenge to Europe;
No2EU launches manifesto for EU elections

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 571 words


Newly founded electoral grouping No2EU - Yes to Democracy launched its national
manifesto this week, ahead of the European elections in June.

The platform, a broad alliance of trade unions and left-leaning political
parties, aims to raise issues directly affecting workers, oppose the "EU gravy
train" and provide a viable and democratic alternative at the polls to extremist
groups such as the BNP and UKIP.

The multi-faceted manifesto outlines the major concerns of the alliance
including the Lisbon Treaty, EU-driven privatisation, the plight of British
industry and the scourge of fascism.

At its manifesto launch in Westminister, No2EU used the opportunity to warn that
Britain is "sleepwalking into the wholesale privatisation of the NHS by EU
diktat."

The warning came after the European Parliament approved the extension of EU
"internal market" rules to cover healthcare services. This, it argues, will pave
the way for private companies to take over the NHS.

A spokesman said: "This is the biggest single threat to the founding principles
of the NHS as a service 'free at the point of need regardless of the ability to
pay' since it was set up by Aneurin Bevan and the post-war Labour government in
1948.

"The approval of the Commission's Health Services Directive has been bulldozed
through despite assurances from the Party of the European Socialists, which
includes the British Labour Party, that they would 'defend public services.'
Come the crunch they abstained on the vote, without any explanation, allowing it
to be bundled through."

No2 EU convener and RMT leader Bob Crow said: "Anyone who believes in the
principles of the NHS and public services should be voting No2EU on June 4.

"We are fighting to stop the breakup of the National Health Service which is
being driven by the EU and their backers from the banks and big business.

"The political elite in the UK are conspiring with this destruction of our
public services and we have to mobilise over the next three weeks to stop them."

Asked about the alliance's broader policies, Mr Crow said: "Millions of working
people feel let down by the main political parties and needed a voice to
represent them.

"The renamed EU constitution, now called the Lisbon Treaty, would still enshrine
right-wing Thatcherite economic policies as goals at a time when this
discredited neoliberal dogma has failed.

"Today we can see the EU's privatisation agenda only too well with the endless
stream of EU diktats demanding the privatisation of our public services."

The EU is also, he argues, boosting extremism.

"The EU is dividing people not uniting them," he said, "and this is feeding the
rise of racism and fascism across Europe.

"No2EU - Yes to Democracy is standing to prevent that happening and to give
people the chance to vote for a positive democratic agenda," Mr Crow added.

The manifesto addresses these and other key issues in uncompromising language,
claiming that the Lisbon Treaty aims to create an "undemocratic, neoliberal
superstate" and accusing the British government, and those across Europe, of
"holding their electorate in contempt" by refusing a referendum on the issue.

Nominating officer for No2EU Brian Denny, himself a candidate for the
forthcoming election, said: "A new poll showed that 62 per cent of people are
against the Lisbon Treaty.

"We are not extremists - we are in tune with the voting public which is to the
left of the major parties, not the right."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Britain - Salford's loyalty spares Blears's blushes

LENGTH: 158 words


There was relief for Labour yesterday after the party held a council seat on
Thursday night in the constituency of expenses row minister Hazel Blears.

Labour's Matt Mold won the Irwell Riverside ward of Salford Council, albeit with
a reduced majority.

Communities Secretary Ms Blears attended the count and said she was "absolutely
delighted" with the result.

Last week she apologised for how the sale of her London flat was handled and
handed over £13,000 to the taxman to cover capital gains tax.

Speaking after the count, she said: "The result shows the values of Salford
people are the values of the Labour Party."

The by-election was the first test of voter reaction to the parliamentary
expenses scandal.

Party chiefs had braced themselves for a backlash, but Mr Mold won with 606
votes.

The Liberal Democrats took 293, a candidate from the far-right BNP got 276
votes, followed by the Conservatives with 189, the Green Party on 125 and UKIP
with 123.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Letters - Thatcher's legacy lives on - we must kill it now

LENGTH: 253 words


The first part of your leading article on May 18 speaks of Britain "sliding back
into the dark days of Thatcherism." But we've never left them. The Iron Lady
rightly said that her principal legacy was new Labour.

The article suggests that under the Tories we suffered from "spite" and under
new Labour from "neglect." But spite and neglect have been relatively minor
factors.

Thatcher and then Blair and Brown happily carried out neoliberal economic
policies at the behest of the most powerful sections of British and US finance
capital. This course was bound to end in tears.

The second section of the article, though, was spot on when it said that the new
Labourites have torn the heart out of the party of working people. As yet there
is no alternative mass party of labour. But on June 4 everybody in Britain has a
chance to show their opposition to privatisation, profits before people and
restrictions on workers' rights by voting in the European elections for No2EU -
Yes to Democracy.

This progressive platform presents a working people's alternative to the
played-out mainstream parties and to the racist BNP and UKIP.

A massive vote for No2EU - Yes to Democracy on June 4 can be an important step
towards the re-establishment of a mass party of labour and the campaign for a
left-wing policy of ending privatisation, properly nationalising the banks and
renationalising trains and buses, restoring trade union rights, building council
houses and ending imperialist wars and nuclear rearmament.

DAVID GROVE, Stamford.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Brown faces Cabinet split on future of Hazel Blears;
Europe Minister issues warning over reshuffle

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 423 words


Gordon Brown's authority is openly challenged today, as a senior minister tells
him to leave Hazel Blears in her Cabinet post.

Caroline Flint, the Minister for Europe, says in The Times that Ms Blears, a
fellow Blairite, should stay in her job amid growing fears among her friends
that she may be the top-level sacrifice for the expenses fiasco.

Ms Flint risks angering Downing Street by saying that Ms Blears had technically
done nothing wrong, despite Mr Brown's branding her behaviour "completely
unacceptable" after she failed to pay capital gains tax on the sale of a flat.
Friends of Ms Blears are annoyed that Mr Brown appears to have been far tougher
on her than other ministers. He swiftly cleared Geoff Hoon and James Purnell of
wrongdoing over allegations that they had not paid capital gains tax on their
London homes.

Ms Flint also sides with Ms Blears, the Communities Secretary, in her recent
criticism of the Government's communication effort - seen widely at the time as
an attack on Mr Brown.

Ms Flint says that Ms Blears is "one of the last people who would ever come into
politics to gain some kind of financial benefit".

Ministers rarely risk trespassing on the Prime Minister's autonomy over
reshuffles, particularly so close to the event. The show of ministerial
indisciple is a further sign of how far the expenses controversy is altering the
normal rules of political behaviour.

In a further sign of the febrile atmosphere at the top of government, some
ministers are now speculating that Mr Brown could be persuaded to call an autum
election. They say that, with Labour apparently heading for certain defeat next
year, the only way Mr Brown could rescue his party would be to be bold and go to
the country on his plans to take Britain out of the recession and clean up
politics.

One minister said that David Cameron's hopes of a smooth ride towards the
election had also been upset by the expenses revelations, which have reminded
voters of an old-style Tory party "moats and all".

"Of course it's hitting us badly, but all the signs are that UKIP will hit them
just as much as they hit us in the European elections," the minister said.

Ms Flint, who is in charge of Labour's campaign for the European elections, said
that the party was "going to take a hit" at the June 4 polls. A government
reshuffle is expected widely soon after.

The Times has been told by informed sources that Lord Mandelson will not be
moved to the Foreign Office, and that David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, has
been assured that this is the case.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caroline Flint, the Europe Minister, backs her Blairite colleague Hazel
Blears, saying she is "the last person to seek financial gain". Interview, pages
40, 41
CHRIS HARRIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Angry Avenue;
In a quiet commuter town untouched by scandal, Middle Britain voices its fury
about MPs, their expenses and the whole voting system to Valentine Low and Laura
Dixon

BYLINE: Valentine Low ; Laura Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1758 words


It does not look a very angry place, St John's Road. It runs through the
outskirts of Hemel Hempstead, but with its hairdresser and its pub, its sandwich
bar and Indian restaurant, it could be any suburban road in any town: half a
mile or more of Middle England, overlooking the park. It is not a place that one
would normally associate with seething resentment. Here, though, there is a
depth of anger at the revelations of MPs' expenses that should prompt those at
Westminster to ask themselves searching questions about the political future of
this country.

People are referring to the political classes with a level of contempt that has
not been seen for years, not even in the dying days of the Major government: and
what is happening in St John's Road is happening in every road, every street,
every avenue in the land, from Portsmouth to Peebles.

The Times decided to examine the mood in this minor artery of a Home Counties
commuter town for two reasons: it has not been touched by the recent scandals,
and it has an MP defending a vulnerable majority. Mike Penning won the seat for
the Conservatives in 2005, beating the Labour incumbent by 499 votes.

It is his apparent blamelessness that makes what we found all the more shocking.
He may not have had his snout in the trough - or if he has, we have not learnt
about it yet - but people who voted for him four years ago are thinking
seriously about voting for another party at the next general election. No one is
safe: Labour voters are also considering changing their allegiance.

The European elections are likely to see the greatest change, with the rightwing
fringe reaping the benefit. The BNP and UKIP have been campaigning actively. A
retired GP showed us a BNP leaflet that had been pushed through his letterbox.
"I've never had one of those before," he said, shocked.

The Tories look more vulnerable - not because they are more guilty, but because
their votes could more easily shift rightwards. For Labour supporters, there are
fewer obvious choices.

In a way the voters' anger is the easy bit. Far more insidious is the
disillusion, the common cry: "We haven't got a voice."

1 Annie Allen, 40, a mother of two who runs an education centre in Hemel
Hempstead, believes that the expenses disclosures have revealed deeper flaws in
the political system. She would like to see a radical overhaul to introduce a
system of proportional representation.

"I think we have a real opportunity to have a rethink," she said. "The average
person I talk to thinks the political system is totally irrelevant, and now they
see this. It has called into question the whole system and the way they are
elected: MPs are posted to constituencies they don't live in by their parties."

She added: "I would like to know how much our MP spends on travel between his
home, here and London. How much we pay for hotels, how much taxpayers are
contributing to his overnight expenses."

2 Stephanie Hudson, 44, a council administrator, found some of the expense
claims inappropriate and outrageous. "Maybe I'm naive, but I do assume that they
all go into politics for the right reasons. Now I'm not con- vincethat they stay
in it for the right reasons.

"There are so many businesses out there that manage to operate an expenses
procedure - it can't be that difficult. There's got to be a better and fairer
system." However, although she was shocked by some of the claims, she will not
change her vote: "They are all as bad as each other."

3 Ian Rance, 36, an engineer, has been so shocked by the details of what MPs
have claimed that he is considering registering a protest vote next month. "I
have lost faith in all parties, all of them. And the worst thing is that we had
to find them out - none of them came out and said it. The whole government is a
shambles; important policies are not being spoken about - and this is a time
that we really need government to step in and make some changes."

"I have voted for the Conservatives for over ten years, but I am really not sure
what I'm going to do in these elections. I am going to look at UKIP, but I
haven't made up my mind yet."

4 Georgina Lane, 29, who owns a beauty salon on St John's Road, says her
customers are fuming about MPs' expense claims. "About 90 per cent of the
clients are talking about it. They are all pretty disgusted. They think that if
it happened to them they would get sacked for it."

Ms Lane is uncertain about who to vote for in the coming elections. "They are
all corrupt: now it's about which one of them we believe the most. I would
normally always vote for the same party but it's very difficult, I might
change," she said.

5 Louise Brown, 45, who runs a hair salon with her husband, said of the expenses
scandal: "It doesn't do much for people's trust. It was cheeky and it was
outrageous, it makes you think - how could they? Who do they think they are that
they can do that with taxpayers money? Everyone is up in arms but I don't know
what people can do about it - or what is going to happen. We speak about it and
moan about it a lot - but what will change? I think people think they cannot
change anything. If you don't vote, or don't vote for one of the wellknown
parties, it's a wasted vote."

She is still considering who she will vote for. She has voted Conservative in
the past, but switched to Labour in the 2005 general election. "I think it might
affect how I vote. It is our money that they are using and if people feel they
are being ripped off, they might be in trouble," she said.

6 Estate agents Glen Murphy, 24, and Sam Serby, 41, say that MPs who broke the
rules and claimed ex-penseunfairly should pay the money back and resign. They
also want an early general election.

"It's unreal. I just cannot get my head around the fact that they thought they
could get away with it," Mr Murphy said."The system has let them down because it
let them all do it. The fact of it is that they have all been able to abuse the
right of being an MP.

"We want something done, because we pay for it. We should have a say in the way
they deal with it. There needs to be a massive overhaul of the expenses and it
needs to be sorted in a very public way. It is our money after all."

Miss Serby thinks that some form of expenses system will be necessary in the
future - but it needs to be better regulated and more transparent. "I think they
should be able to claim expenses, but within a limit. I can see that if they
live far away they need a second home. But I don't see why some of them need two
homes when there's an easy commuter service. If they need to be there overnight,
then claim for an overnight stay, but they don't need a second home. When it
comes to maintaining their houses, that's what salaries are for, surely?"

7 Carl Rogers, 74, a retired mine supervisor, moved from Cumbria to Hemel
Hempstead six months ago to be nearer his family. He thinks the expenses
revelations have tarnished both Labour and the Conservatives.

"I think it's disgraceful, absolutely disgraceful, but I think a lot of people
have known what is going on. They were all dipping in the trough, so no one
would comment on each other."

He suggests that the only method of protest the public have is to spoil their
ballot papers, or abstain - as Lord Tebbit urged voters to do in the European
elections.

"We can't do anything about it. We are not in a position to do anything about
it; they are. The only thing we can do is vote. As far as I'm concerned, people
should say that they would not vote for any of the people on the voting sheet.
At my age I am tempted not to even bother going, but that's the only way I can
express myself."

He is looking into a number of smaller fringe parties to decide who will get his
vote next month. He is also sceptical that MPs themselves will be able to put a
suitable alternative system in place.

"Anything they do change will be merely cosmetic, a little bit like the European
gravy train ... they make the rules.

"I think the party leaders should give a lot of serious thought to the people
they are giving jobs too. They are not doing their jobs," he said.

8 MPs may have been having one of the most woeful months of their political
careers, but they can be sure of one thing: for some voters, their discomfort
has been a source of great joy.

"The nation is quite happy to see politicians get it in the neck," said
freelance television presenter James Russell.

"When I see them being dragged through the mill for getting their moat cleaned
or their tennis court sorted out, it has certainly put a smile on my face - and
it has been a refreshing change from hearing about how your house is not worth
anything anymore or how likely you are to lose your job."

For Mr Russell, 30, the revelations have merely confirmed his low opinion of
MPs. "It is a dodgy position for dodgy people," he said.

He supports the idea that constituencies should be able to recall MPs if do
something outrageous - and is even surprised that they cannot do so already. "No
wonder they take the p*** so much. Anyone else who conducts themselves badly
runs the risk of being out of a job." But for a committed Labour supporter, it
will not change the way he votes. "That would just be swapping out of bitterness
and spite, and that's not really a good reason."

9 David Toorawa is angry about the way MPs have behaved - he wrote a letter to
his MP voicing his concerns long before the latest spate of revelations - but
believes the problem is part of a deeper malaise.

"MPs are no different from the rest of us," the retired GP said. "We are all
capable of doing precisely what these guys have done: using the system to your
advantage. But if you create the system - and MPs created the system - there is
no point in bleating when you are found out that it was within the rules."

Dr Toorawa, 65, believes the effect on politics will be serious. "I have got
four children. They are all adults. They all see very little relevance in the
politics of national life. There is confusion and disenchantment.

"Now, I am seriously worried that the mainstream parties have shot themselves in
the foot. What will happen now is that we will have extremists being elected by
default." It is reflective, he says, of the lack of transparency in government.
"None of us are privy to what happens."

Take, he says, the decision to go to war in Iraq: it was dressed up, sold to
Parliament, "and then we ended up going to war on a false prospectus ... where
is the feeling that ordinary people have a say in such matters?"

"Just shove the leaflet through the door and run!"

6 2 3 4 5 8 9

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOMONTAGE; BEN GURR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

I'm Dave, I'm relatively well off and I'm very, very sorry

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words


To Witney, in deepest Oxfordshire, to see David Cameron face his constituents.
The showdown was set for high noon at the Corn Exchange. The crowd was very
Middle England. Think WI, garden centre, Waitrose shoppers. I haven't seen so
many men in V-neck jumpers in ages. If this was going to be a lynching, it was
going to be a genteel one.

Dave arrived saying sorry. Sorry, sorry, sorry. My but he was contrite. Grovel,
grovel, grovel. He wasn't just on the naughty step, he'd brought his own naughty
step, labelled, so everyone could see it. It was a bit like a Politicians
Anonymous outreach meeting. "Hi I'm Dave and I'm a politician!" he cried (or so
I imagined) as he stood next to the stage, looking up at a sea of pastel colours
and hair rinse.

It wasn't so much Dave Unplugged as Dave Confidential. He began by confessing
all about his mortgage interest.

"Even though I am relatively well off, I still claim," he said, looking a bit
furtive. I loved that "relatively". It is said that he and his wife are worth
£30 million. (Dave, when asked about that, later, managed to look a bit shocked
and said: "If so, I'd love to know what she's done with it!" The crowd laughed.
The whole incident, with that graceful sidestep laced with charm, was very Tony
Blair.) But I digress. Back in 2001, Dave took out a "quite big" mortgage of
£350,000. Again, I liked that "quite big". His mortgage interest was £1,700 a
month. The pastel people leaned forward, for this was pure financial voyeurism.

In 2007 Dave managed to pay off £100,000 (as you do). He also began to claim for
utilities. But no moats. "And no duck houses!" said a voter. "No duck houses!"
trilled Dave, laughing a bit too hard. He told us all about the wistaria bill.
It was too much information. As he explained the intricacies of his chimney
venting, I felt a desire to take a nap.

The room, with its 200 people, was beginning to steam. Dave ripped off his
city-slicker jacket (this is also a classic Tony Blair gesture). He said he knew
people were angry and then, as if to prove how angry he was, he said Ukip didn't
know their "arse from their elbow". The moment he said "arse" he looked almost
pleased. "And we are on TV!" he cried. But then Dave is always on TV, I think.

The crowd let rip in a very quiet way, more the sound of a zipper than a
thunderclap but a noise nonetheless. They hated the greed, the Speaker, the
sheer corruption of it all. Dave listened hard and kept saying how much he loved
being their MP. I could see his grovel strategy was working: the pastel people
hated politicians in general, but not Dave in particular.

But they had no sympathy. "It is said that some MPs are suffering from
depression and talking about suicide," said one woman with a Minnie Mouse voice.
"Well, we would really, really like to see them hanging from the lampposts!" As
I said, a very genteel lynching. There will be hanging baskets of flowers on
those lampposts too.

Dave also has no sympathy (as his party is finding out). "I agree that MPs
having depression is not an issue," he said. "They should be depressed about
what's happened." Then he grovelled some more.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron's constituents hear his confession and look forward to
'MPs hanging from the lampposts'
In Witney, David Cameron sheds his jacket, Blair-style, and says sorry
STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

The pounds 6m MEPs with no work to do

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 461  words


EIGHTEEN "phantom'' MEPs will be elected on full pay and perks next month
despite not being able to start work for up to two years due to Ireland's
rejection of the Lisbon Treaty.

The extra candidates will be chosen in the European Union elections on June 4
despite the treaty, which increases the number of MEPs from 736 to 754,
remaining unsigned.

Amid confusion over when and how they will take up their seats, the European
Parliament will give the extra MEPs "observer'' status from next year. The deal
will mean they can draw full salaries and allowances at an annual cost of more
than  pounds 6 million without any legislative duties.

The 18 MEPs, from 12 EU countries, including the West Midlands, will be paid
more than  pounds 76,000 a year, with staff and office allowances worth  pounds
210,000.

They will also be entitled to tax-free allowances of  pounds 255 for every day
of their limbo existence in Brussels and can claim back business class travel.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Welcome to virtual
politics. This has to be the political expenses scandal to end all expenses
scandals. The perfect politician for today's elite - one that takes wages and
does no work at all.''

Ireland votes again on the Lisbon Treaty this autumn with the intention that it
can come into force in January next year but an additional legal "protocol''
allowing the MEPs to assume full duties could take another two years.

The Irish vote could also reject the treaty again, throwing the EU into a
political crisis and freezing the size of the parliament.

Richard Corbett, the Labour MEP who guided the Lisbon Treaty through the
European Parliament, defended the arrangement to make them "observers''.

"This is straightforward and there is no need to make a fuss,'' he said. "They
can do all the work of an MEP except taking part in votes. This is a way of
making a smooth transition and has been done before.''

Spanish ministers argued that there would be an "imbalance'' between the EU
institutions if the 18 MEPs could not take their seats until the end of the new
parliament in 2014 due to Ireland's rejection of the Lisbon Treaty. They were
seeking a deal under which the extra MEPs would take their seats as soon as the
treaty came into force.

One option was to include a clause in an EU entry treaty for Croatia in 2011 but
Spain wanted to force all countries to agree a deal in their national
parliaments next year.

Andrew Duff, the leader of the Liberal Democrats in the European Parliament,
suggested that the slow process of ratifying the move could mean that the MEPs
remain observers for years.

"From January 2010, a legal instrument is going to have to be ratified in each
national parliament. We know that can take a long time,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Only UKRP's standing firm on resisting Lisbon Treaty

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 168  words


ANN Widdecombe dismisses the UK Independence Party as a contender for government
and argues for voting Conservative in June's European elections so the party's
MEPs will be in place in Europe ("Let's not forget there are elections looming",
May 20).

Like many of my fellow countrymen, I was conned into voting for a Common Market
in 1975, being told nothing about the hidden agenda of political union.

We are repeatedly told that we need to be at the centre of Europe in order to
influence EU policies and safeguard UK interests.

However, it was only after UKIP MEPs were elected that unsavoury facts about the
EU began to filter through to us.

The Lisbon Treaty contains a clause enabling the EU to amend any of its laws
subject to qualified majority voting, thus bypassing the need for ratification
in individual nation states.

Can any EU-supporting MP tell us when the Commons last debated this odious
clause, which effectively makes us surrender what is left of our sovereignty?

Roy Phillips, Stockport, Cheshire

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Diary: All over the world, the principle is the same. It pays to be in politics

BYLINE: Hugh Muir:

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 657 words


The world stands transfixed as the trouser-gate virus continues to afflict the
mother of parliaments. Expense abuse scandal hurts UK parties, says Germany's
Die Welt publication. Gravy train crashes for UK lawmakers, reports the
Associated Press. But there's less interest in Croatia, understandable given the
recent election there of Josko Risa, the mayor of Prolozac, whose slogan "All
for Me - Nothing for You" struck such a chord with the voters. "I just told them
the truth. This town will be like my family business. If I get a little
something, so do they," was his rationale. Local resident Ivan Vjisnic appears
sanguine: "We're going to get ripped off no matter who takes over. At least he
is being honest and up front about it." Sometimes it pays to have this
international perspective.

For the issues are the same the world over, subject to local variation. In South
Africa, the transport minister, S'bu Ndebele, this week returned gifts he
received from a businessman who benefited from government action to assist small
contractors. "I have decided voluntarily to return the Mercedes-Benz and two
head of cattle," he said. Must be squeaky clean.

A terrible dilemma for the Queen then, as BNP leader Nick Griffin prepares to
take the royal handshake at a Buckingham Palace garden party. One hopes she is
able to pack the event with loyal brown subjects from the Commonwealth. Help him
feel comfortable. She has no choice in the matter of invitations, of course, but
we all know full well that she will have nothing to say to this dreadful man
with his appalling record of making derogatory remarks about minorities. Neither
will Prince Philip.

The important thing, which she would twig, would be the obvious need to steer
the conversation away from politics. Avoid controversy. Bathe in the banalities.
She's a patron of the arts and, of course, we know that in his previous
incarnation, Richard Barnbrook, the BNP London Assembly member who threatens to
arrive with Griffin in tow, created the movie HMS Discovery, A Love Story. It's
an under-appreciated work featuring flagellation, men undressing and apparent al
fresco sex acts between consenting blokes. People say it is porn. He says it is
art. He could explain the difference.

While Ukip reveals election plans to directly target the vulnerability of Gordon
Brown over the expenses farrago, we continue to be troubled by the issue of
whether the diary should succumb to the lure of a liquid encounter with the
party's Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire representative, Godfrey "never less
than eight pints, me" Bloom. On the one hand there is duty. On the other, the
health risks. How to decide. We take soundings. "Lunch with Godders? Know any
good liver transplant surgeons?" is the startled reply from one who knows our
Godfrey well. "Don't do it, or drink Tizer," says an obviously worried Rainbow
George Weiss. Yet our regular correspondent Philip Howells says we should go
ahead and that we might even invite Will "Thirsty" Lewis, editor of the
Telegraph, to join us. We cannot decide if he wishes us good or ill.

A bad day - another one - for Margaret Moran; a good day for Esther Rantzen as
it seems ever more likely that the Labour party will move against the
much-criticised Luton South MP. Esther (pictured), who has designs on the seat,
has apparently been taking advice from sleazebuster-in-chief Martin Bell. Stuff
along the lines of: "Take a clean conscience and a white suit." It seems to
work. But surely her biggest coup so far has been earning the endorsement from
David Van Day, the media personality and former lead singer with the 70s pop duo
Dollar. Esther backed him when both were on I'm a Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of
Here! Time passes but a jungle man never forgets.

Finally, a message to the opportunist who called up yesterday. Don't call again,
for we have no interest in you or your Fred Goodwin toilet paper. Sorry, we just
don't.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Would we really accept a genuine political revolution?

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1156 words


Suddenly advocates of sweeping constitutional reform have a wide and responsive
audience. This is quite a novelty, almost a revolution in itself. Until a few
weeks ago only a few devotees got really excited about changing the way politics
worked. Now a previously arid policy area has the potential to strike a chord
like never before.

Tentatively a wider revolution has started. Over the last few days leaders have
declared that local parties must be the final arbiters of their MPs' fates. They
will not intervene if some are kicked out. Deselection of MPs by local parties
is the new fashion. Gordon Brown and David Cameron calculate that they gain
strength in paying homage to the power of their activists over MPs.

I can hardly believe I am witnessing such a reversal of the old orthodoxy. In
the early 1980s Tony Benn led a campaign in which he called for local parties to
have the right to remove MPs. At the time the political and media establishments
railed against him. Benn was dismissed on the grounds that MPs should be freed
from the reins of their activists. Labour Party leaders were told to get a grip
on their activists as indeed were Tory leaders from the late 1990s. Now Brown
and Cameron have become extreme Bennites, urging local parties to deselect MPs.

Or rather they have become confused Bennites. They turn to local parties and at
the same time they are busy acting themselves, taking away the whip or forcing
through some premature retirements.

The confusion and the outbreak of local party assertiveness over errant MPs are
signs that politics is in a state of flux. The dramatic removal of the Speaker
is another. What will happen next? There are risks and also astonishing
opportunities when voters rage at a political system.

The main risk is that the rare chance for substantial change becomes
trivialised. David Cameron is doing his duty as a Leader of the Opposition well
ahead in the polls in calling for an early election. Who would not do so in his
position? But even some of his advisers worry that he looks a little
opportunistic amidst a crisis that demands much more than the usual banter about
the need for a change of government.

A silly, stale row over election timing is not the way the arguments should be
moving. At the moment the stars of an election campaign would be Esther Rantzen,
Martin Bell, Jordan and UKIP (watch what happens in the European elections next
month). The political crisis and indeed the economic one deserve something
bigger than that.

Gordon Brown's response to the calls for an election, though, was highly
revealing and ominous. In an interview on Wednesday he warned that an election
would cause chaos. It was a fascinating remark. No wonder Cameron leapt on it.
Brown has always had something of a phobia about elections and their potential
for chaos. Famously he did not stand against Tony Blair in 1994, partly out of
fear that such a move would expose the frailty of the embryonic new Labour
project. In 2007 he went out of his way to ensure there was a "smooth
transition" after Tony Blair's departure, code for a desperate desire to avoid
an internal election.

The anti-election caricature can be taken too far. Brown has been fighting
elections of one sort or another since the age of 11 and has been the architect
of Labour's campaigns since 1997. But that term "chaos" reveals a deep fear of
losing control of an agenda and the media that can happen in the midst of
elections.

It can also happen when constitutional reform moves centre-stage. One of the
myths of the current situation is that Downing Street is in a bunker mentality.
Brown and his advisers spend more time than is healthy reading the newspapers,
blogs, internal polls and focus groups. They know how angry the voters are. From
within No 10 some are keen for a substantial response, beyond addressing the
immediate issues of expenses and future regulation.

One pointed out to me how inaccessible voters found the terminology of
parliament, with its early day motions and substantial motions. There is quite a
lot of talk in Downing Street and within the cabinet of an opportunity for a
really big package of reforms. But as one such advocate put it to me, "Gordon
would have to accept there is a danger he would lose control". In other words,
this is a sequence that could become chaotic and we know that Brown fears chaos.

Brown is more interested in constitutional reform than recent Prime Ministers
but within strict limits. He wants to control the outcome of the debate and
still be fully in charge as a Prime Minister once incremental changes have been
implemented. His temperament and 1980s political upbringing make him fearful of
chaos.

Caution may remain a determining factor for Brown and Cameron may not want to
act in ways that curb his room for manoeuvre if he wins the election. That is
the risk. Politics is in a state of flux at an inconvenient moment when an
election moves closer. Inevitably every leader's move is made with that in mind.

Still opportunities for radical change cannot be scheduled in advance. They tend
to arise unexpectedly. I can understand why Cameron might not want to opt for a
constitutional revolution at this point, but it seems to me it is in Labour's
self-interest to advance a radical programme of change. Brown should have done
so when he became Prime Minister and is lucky to have cover to give it another
go. If he were daring, he would offer a referendum on electoral reform at the
election and promise to campaign for a "Yes" vote while pledge that the second
chamber would be elected. There is no way voters will accept most of the current
House of Commons being awarded places in the Lords so the whole place might as
well be reformed.

There should be fewer MPs with more chance to hold the government to account.
The parties must seek a much wider range of candidates. In some constituencies
it is easier to fly to the Moon than break through the barriers required to be
an MP. As a result there are too many mediocre backbenchers on both sides who
got there as a result of local stitch-ups.

I have become a convert to such sweeping changes in recent years having watched
closely a new Labour government with huge majorities worry only about the media.
It would have been a much better government if other pressures had applied. But
while I suspect such reforms would now be popular as a way of "changing the
system", the media and the wider electorate would have to change too.

Over recent years "strong leaders" have been the fashion. A more robust
parliament with greater legitimacy would mean Prime Ministers having to twist
and turn, facing defeats over policy areas on a regular basis. Will we accept
that they are not "weak" but part of a new culture where bodies other than the
media hold them to account? The potential revolution presents challenges to the
elected and the electors too. Are they and we up for it?

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Brown pins hopes on 'national plan' to revive Labour fortunes;
Policy blitz and a reshuffle will be PM's answer to bad election results

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 699 words


A "national plan" for Britain will be unveiled by Gordon Brown as he tries to
fight back after Labour's expected elections rout next month, The Independent
has learnt.

The Prime Minister wants to show how the Government will lead the country out of
recession and extend its public service reforms. It will cover the economy,
industry, health, education and crime.

Mr Brown intends to "hit the ground running" after the European Parliament
election results are announced on 7 June. His "national plan" will be seen as a
personal bid for survival as some Labour backbenchers are expected to call for
him to stand down if Labour performs badly at the polls.

There are growing fears in the party that the expenses scandal will boost the
prospects of the UK Independence Party in the Euro elections, and that it could
push Labour into a humiliating fourth place.

Mr Brown is also expected to reshuffle his Cabinet shortly after the elections.
Despite growing speculation in that Lord Mandelson will achieve his ambition to
become Foreign Secretary, he is expected to remain as Business Secretary. That
would allow him to oversee Labour's general election strategy, which would be
difficult to do with the overseas travel involved as Foreign Secretary.

Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, is expected to stand down from her post, while
there is also speculation that Hazel Blears will lose her position as
Communities Secretary and that Margaret Beckett, the Housing minister and former
foreign secretary dropped by Mr Brown, could be recalled to the Cabinet.

One person who wasn't expecting to move was David Miliband, who insisted
yesterday that he wanted to remain in his post for at least another four years.
He claimed his only ambition was to beat his predecessor Ernest Bevin as
Labour's longest-serving Foreign Secretary by completing six years in the post.
Mr Miliband stressed his desire to continue to serve under Gordon Brown's
leadership to the general election and beyond.

The Prime Minister hopes to show that Labour has not run out of steam after 12
years in office and has a more detailed prospectus than the Tories.

Mr Brown is convinced Labour can still hold on to power if the general election
could be turned into a choice between the rival policies of the two main
parties.

"Gordon Brown has a plan, David Cameron does not," one of Mr Brown's aides said.
"When the voters realise that, we think they will look at things differently."

Labour strategists hope that publication of Mr Brown's plan may "flush out" more
Tory policies. They suspect Mr Cameron has decided to try to coast to victory
without spelling out his programme. The Tories insist they will unveil more
policies in the autumn but say they would have to leave some details until they
see the nation's books after an election.

A Populus poll for ITV's News at Ten last night found that 54 per cent of the
public want an immediate general election, while 38 per cent do not. The survey
put the Tories on 39 per cent, Labour on 27 per cent, the Liberal Democrats on
17 per cent and other parties on 18 per cent.

One cabinet minister said: "We can't contemplate a general election while it
would be a referendum on Parliament or our record. We have got to make it a
choice between two sets of policies. We hope the document will mark the start of
that process."

The Cabinet will consider whether to accompany the document with a renewed
commitment to constitutional reform. This follows calls for wider changes on top
of reforms to the MPs' expenses regime to rebuild the public's trust in
politics.

Mr Brown has signalled that he has an open mind to reform and that he wants to
engage the public in the debate. But he told Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, that the introduction of proportional representation was not the only
way to reform the constitution.

But ministers admit that big changes such as an elected House of Lords and
electoral reform could not be completed before the general election. "You can't
overhaul the constitution by next week," one said.

Going, going, gone - the MPs who paid the price for their expenses claims

News, pages 6&7

Do our politicians have the stomach for a revolution?

Steve Richards, page 35

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 549 words


Spitfires fly as the BNP sticks to its (Polish) guns

* YET FURTHER sniggering appears to be in order when it comes to Nick Griffin's
choice of campaign literature.

Following last week's delightful discovery that the "British workers" pictured
saying "NO to EU rule" on a British National Party leaflet were, in fact, from
Oregon in the United States (and thus at little risk, really, of ever falling
under EU rule), we hear that another source of embarrassment is still very much
in circulation.

The notorious Spitfires used in a campaign calling for Eastern European workers
to be banned from coming to Britain - which, it transpired, were actually Polish
- have returned to adorn the right-wing party's European election leaflets.

For their part, the BNP are claiming that they have known the origins of the
Spitfires all along, and have decided to include them deliberately.

"We have plenty of members of Polish origin who fled during the war. We're not
against them, we're against the modern flood of labour. It's just not a mistake
as far as we're concerned. It's a publicity stunt: so everyone goes, 'Oh, look
at the silly BNP.'" Just the sort of publicity a political party would want.

A solution to all Hazel's tax woes?

* SOME ADVICE FOR Hazel Blears, following Pandora's revelation that the tax-shy
Communities Secretary is considering donating her £13,332 to charity instead of
HM Revenue and Customs (Ms Blears is, we're told, concerned that it might be
"treated as a credit" on her account). Says one in-the-know reader: "She can
simply post a cheque to HMRC and specify it is in addition to her tax. It goes
straight to the Bank of England and into the system. A fair number of people
each year do it and it always goes perfectly smoothly."

Jemima's back in business

* CAN A RETURN to form be on the cards for trendy purveyors of frilly knickers
FrostFrench?

The label - run by Sadie Frost and Jemima French - experienced something of a
hiatus this time last year, after announcing that the business had been taken
into administration.

Now, however, Jemima, pictured, tells us that it's all systems go. "Things feel
much more manageable now that Sadie and I are completely hands-on," she
enthuses. "We are going to focus on our website next and have lots of exciting
plans coming up. So watch this space!"

Spink speaks up for the Speaker

* ELICITING EVEN less of a response than the lonely Downing Street petition
calling on Gordon Brown to "carry on leading" (current signatures stand at a
meagre 62), the Independent MP (and sometime Ukip-flirter) Bob Spink has lodged
an early day motion "paying tribute" to the outgoing Speaker.

Tragically (or, quite possibly, brilliantly), the motion has received but one
signature so far. Bob Spink's.

Chace limbers up for his new role

* CONGRATULATIONS TO Chace Crawford, 'Gossip Girl' star and Pandora favourite.
He's just been cast as the lead in the new version of 'Footloose'.

The 23-year-old Crawford, pictured left, was born just a year after the release
of the original film in 1984. "He's never danced before but he's an extremely
good athlete, which makes him likely to pick it all up fairly easily," explains
Pandora's mole in the studio. "And he's really up for it. After all, he's an
actor and so he needs to be challenged."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Feature - Truth behind Esther's team

BYLINE: Solomon Hughes

LENGTH: 369 words


There is a worry that the expenses scandal will feed the right - that the
Tories, UKIP or even the BNP will gain. Or, worse, it might give more publicity
to Esther Rantzen.

I grew up in the 1970s, when it was mandatory to watch her dismal show called
That's Life. We only had one television per household and they ran on
old-fashioned valves.

Unless the whole family watched That's Life, the stream of snickering jokes
about penis-shaped carrots, flatulence, irritating pets and the unpleasantly
creepy Cyril Fletcher's crap poems would overload these valves, causing the TV
to explode and set fire to the house.

So the prospect of Esther Rantzen posing as a "white knight" candidate against
the expenses-happy Labour MP for Luton South fills me with terror.

Especially as Rantzen is backing the "jury team" list of "independents."
Rantzen's backers should be called "Tory team" - her team is funded by Sir Paul
Judge, the millionaire former Tory treasurer who last gave the Conservatives
money in 2008.

Far from being Mr Anti-Sleaze, Sir Paul is mired in the stuff. He was Tory
director-general when the Conservatives took nearly half a million from Asil
Nadir, a businessman currently living in exile in Turkish Cyprus to escape
British charges of fraud and theft.

When Nadir fled, the directors of his firm asked the Tories to give his donation
back as he had not asked for proper authorisation before handing the loot to the
Conservatives.

Sir Paul said no, he would keep the dubious cash.

He was also Tory boss when Conservative MP Neil Hamilton was found taking
dubious money from lobbyists. Sir Paul helped resist attempts to uncover Tory
sleaze linked to Hamilton.

Sir Paul is married to Lady Barbara Judge, who was given a senior atomic job by
the Labour government. Lady Barbara personally paid £50,000 in 1992 to settle a
court case accusing her of covering up for a fraudster in the massive US savings
and loans scandal, a financial mess similar to our current banking scandal.

In Italy, a massive corruption scandal in the 1990s destroyed the Italian
Socialist Party, but handed power to the dubious right-wing media mogul
Berlusconi.

In Britain, we get Esther. I suppose that's life (cue irritating trombone
music).

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

The king is dead... long live the queen

BYLINE: Ally Ross

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 572 words


RIGHT, be honest. How many of you have ever wanted to see a Portuguese Pogues,
with Norris Cole's girlfriend on lead vocals, doing a pan-pipe version of Cat
Stevens' Wild World?

No one?

Then it's tough luck, I guess, on everyone who was watching the 54th Eurovision
Song Contest.

BBC1's annual three-hour party election broadcast, on behalf of UKIP, which
offered us a tantalising glimpse at what the entire continent would look like if
Gok Wan was ever made an EU commissioner.

Beamed live from Moscow, via two cosmonauts in the NASA space station, new host
was Graham Norton who struggled, early on, with nerves and humdrum foreigners.

Twenty-five acts in total, six of the first 12 were "Yooodge stars in their
native country", according to Norton, including: Sweden's Ulshrieka, some French
bint, prowling around like Madonna at a Nairobi orphanage, and six Armenian
Widow Twankies offering us death by bouzouki.

All were united by their lack of hope or melody and disappointingly sane, by
usual standards.

But only a fool ever underestimates a competition as consistently barmy as
Eurovision. In fact, the words "Bring back Wogan" were barely out of my pen when
- WHAM - we were suddenly hit by song 13. Nelly Ciobanu, four cossacks and a
bloke with a mop giving it Flight Of The Moldovan Bumblebee.

A breathtaking assault on the senses that opened the floodgates for the
jaw-on-the-floor brigade.

Personal highs were: The Ukrainian tranny, who appeared with three gladiators
and a drum kit on wheels to perform her stalking song: "I will show you to my
nest. You are under a-arrest."

Norway (Peter Beale, two Melindas and Oslo's Olympic press-up team). And
half-time belly-flopping from Argentinian dance troupe Fuerza Bruta, which was
inspired by body surfing in the Glastonbury urinals.

The show was probably stolen, however, by an Albanian disco gimp dancing away,
with two dwarves, to Carry Me In Your Dreams. "You see those things in your
dreams," commented Norton, revelling in the sudden madness. "Change your
medication."

No one, of course, will ever quite match Wogan. But Norton's joyful brutality
("Traditional costumes? Only in a town where Liberace's the mayor") suggested he
can become a great successor.

To do this, however, he must get a grip of Eurovision voting, learn how to count
and, like Wogan, ignore the BBC's stupid propaganda.

Because someone had clearly told Norton to underplay the corrupt voting and play
up his state-funded, PR trudge round Europe, with Andrew Lloyd Webber and UK
entry Jade Ewen, begging for votes from Russia, Hungary and Poland.

Results don't lie, though.

In the event, those countries gave us six, one and four points respectively. We
finished a distant fifth and, for two reasons, I was absolutely delighted.

Firstly, Auntie can try selling us failure all they like, it was a much-needed
reminder that the rest of Europe isn't quite as in love with Andrew Lloyd Webber
as the BBC.

And secondly, a quote from BBC1's Jade's Story, a grovelling documentary that
preceeded Eurovision, which was so beautifully timed I'm just going to leave it
hanging in the air for you all to savour.

"This is my career on the line and my reputation, as well as Andrew Lloyd
Webber's. So what I really don't want to do is finish fifth."

GASPS on BBC3's Make My Body Younger as a living autopsy reveals: "Boozy Bianca
Gascoigne has the brain of a 64-year-old."

A genuine shock, as I'd assumed it was an eight-year-old's.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

'It is real anger. We are all tarred with the same brush';
In Surrey, even experienced candidates are taken aback by the public outrage,
Jill Sherman reports

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 897 words


"I am absolutely disgusted. I have always voted but I am not going to this time.
You're sleazy - the lot of you. Don't come back to my house," shouted Deborah
Sharp as she slammed her garden gate shut, and retreated to the far end of her
manicured lawn.

A shaken Helyn Clack, a Conservative councillor campaigning yesterday in Surrey
for the elections on June 4, hurried down the drive before nervously turning to
the wistaria-covered house next door.

Like many of her town hall colleagues, Ms Clack had fallen victim to the growing
anger over the Westminster expenses debacle, with councillors of all parties now
being tarred with the same brush as MPs.

As councillors canvass for the county elections they are finding it hard to
bring up local issues such as refuse collection and social services, with
residents blaming them for moats and second home expenses being paid for by the
taxpayer.

Nick Skellett, outgoing leader of the Tory-controlled Surrey County Council, has
rarely witnessed such fury. "There is real anger," he said. "It's the main topic
of conversation and we are all tarred with the same brush. There is a fair
percentage of people who have started attacking us on the issue. Some have been
really abusive saying, 'P*** off. You couldn't organise a p***-up in a brewery.'
Others just say, 'How many homes have you got?'."

Polls suggest that the expenses scandal has angered the recession-hit
low-esocial classes most but the prosperous Home Counties are also baring their
teeth on the doorstep.

"There are people struggling in this world and living out of cardboard boxes,"
Mrs Sharp told The Times. "It's just disgraceful that politicians are claiming
for pet food and getting their own food paid. We had rationing in the Second
World War. I can't believe what is going on now."

Ms Clack had told us earlier that David Cameron wanted councillors to be "brave"
and go out on the doorstep. But near to tears after Mrs Sharp's onslaught, she
cut short her canvassing.

The residents of Brockham, near Dorking, a prosperous part of Surrey with an
immaculate village green, were clearly up in arms about duck houses and second
home allowances.

Crispin Blunt, the MP for nearby Reigate, has come under fire for claiming
£16,000 for stamp duty and legal fees on a second home and Michael Gove, the
member for Surrey Heath, has also had to pay back £7,000 claimed for luxury
furniture. But the residents' anger is directed at the whole political class
rather than individuals.

"It is absolutely obscene," said Mary Olive Boxall, a pensioner in Brockham.
"It's all very wrong. I think the business of having two or three houses and
setting out to make a lot of money is all very wrong. I don't get £400 a month
to pay for food. Do you?" she asks, almost stabbing her finger at Ms Clack. The
candidate mumbles that her mileage allowance is only 40p per mile. She brings
out a clipboard with a petition calling for an early general election which Mr
Cameron wants people to sign. Mrs Boxall signs but adds: "They will have a job
to shift Gordon Brown and he wasn't even elected."

Alan Norman, an HGV mechanic, and Rosemary, his wife, are also furious, although
their ire is not directed at Ms Clack. "The MPs' expenses is scandalous. They
are just money-grabbing and there are a lot of silly expenses they are trying to
claim for," Mr Norman said.

Mrs Norman chips in: "MPs are spending taxpayers' money on a load of rubbish and
they are a complete waste of time." Down Tynedale Road there is a general
feeling that the parliamentary expenses system will not respond to quick fixes.
"I think this has been going on for a long time," said Nigel, who declined to
give his surname. "They don't seem to realise how bad it appears out there. It
doesn't help if they are caught with their fingers in the till."

Sara Knight is the sole resident in the street who springs to the defence of
MPs. "Maybe they are not paid enough and they are just trying to take what they
can," she said. "Some people do not give MPs enough credit."

A mile down the road on the edges of Dorking, the Liberal Democrats get slightly
better treatment, although few plaudits. Hazel Watson, leader of the Liberal
Democrats on the county council, campaigning for re-election, does not have a
door slammed in her face, but she seemed relieved to find few people in and kept
doorstep exchanges short. Those at home also wanted to attack MPs. "They should
be hung, drawn and quartered and kicked out of Parliament," said Knole Pirt.

Alice Humphreys, the Liberal Democrat prospective parliamentary candidate for
Mole Valley, did her best to persuade a Eurosceptic resident to vote for her
party. Ms Humphreys, a lawyer, took on Kenneth Swindeles, who clearly did not
realise the Liberal Democrats were pro-European. "I'm just really worried about
all these immigrants who use our schools, our doctors, our services," Mr
Swindeles said. Ms Humphreys countered: "Well we believe in a strong Europe." Mr
Swindeles, who said later that he would vote for UKIP in the Euro elections but
possibly Lib Dem in the county elections, begged to differ.

Surrey County Council, which has a massive Tory majority, has been in huge
trouble in the past 12 months over a bad Ofsted report on children's services
and falling to the bottom of the Audit Commission's town hall league tables this
year. But no one raised those matters on the doorstep.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Helyn Clack listens as Rosemary Norman makes clear the level of her
dismay
Kenneth Swindeles tells Alice Humphreys, the Lib Dem prospective parliamentary
candidate, of his immigration worries. He supports her party locally but is
backing UKIP in the European election
PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Former Tory may be promoted as Brown plans his reshuffle

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 364 words


Shaun Woodward, the former Conservative who crossed the floor of the House of
Commons to become a Labour Cabinet minister, is being tipped by other ministers
for another promotion in a reshuffle expected to take place next month.

The Northern Ireland Secretary could emerge as a surprise beneficiary if Gordon
Brown decides on a bigger than expected shake-up after the expenses scandal.

Mr Woodward is said to be well regarded by the Prime Minister, who is thought to
view him as a competent minister and "sound and sensible" on political strategy.

As The Times reported last week, Lord Mandelson is being considered by Mr Brown
for his dream job of Foreign Secretary, although business leaders might urge Mr
Brown to keep him as Business Secretary.

If Jacqui Smith is moved from the Home Office, or stands down to concentrate on
defending her marginal seat, David Miliband could transfer from Foreign
Secretary to Home Secretary. In those circumstances, Ed Balls could move from
Schools and Children Secretary to take over from Lord Mandelson at the
Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. If Lord Mandelson
stays put, Mr Balls and Mr Woodward could be candidates for Home Secretary.
Alistair Darling is expected to remain as Chancellor of the Exchequer.

Margaret Beckett, who remains close to Mr Brown, is tipped to become a full
Cabinet member again. She could replace Hazel Blears, the Communities Secretary,
to whom she is deputy as housing minister.

The reshuffle is one of the few weapons at Mr Brown's disposal if the European
and local elections on June 4 go as badly for Labour as everyone expects. There
is no sign of a challenge to Mr Brown and no desire to repeat last year's
shambles when a few ministers threatened to rise up but never did. But party
surveys have shown discontent with the Prime Minister that could grow over the
summer unless he takes a grip straightaway.

Some at Westminster gossip that Mr Brown might be tempted to walk away if Labour
finishes behind UKIP in the European elections. In their scenario Alan Johnson
would be crowned leader and an election would be held in the autumn. Those who
know Mr Brown best laugh at such suggestions.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

Johnson intervenes to block BNP leader from attending Queen's garden party

LENGTH: 576 words

ABSTRACT

Mayor urges London assembly to rescind invitation to BNP colleague to spare
monarch embarrassment

FULL TEXT

Boris Johnson today intervened in an attempt to block Nick Griffin, the leader
of the BNP, from attending a garden party hosted by the Queen.

The capital's mayor has urged the London assembly to rescind a British National
party member's invitation to the social event at Buckingham Palace to spare the
Queen's embarrassment as he accused the far-right party of trying to turn the
event into a "political stunt".

Johnson's intervention came after it emerged that Richard Barnbrook, the only
BNP member on the London assembly, said he intended to take Griffin, the party's
leader, as his guest to the party hosted by the Queen in June. All members of
the assembly have been invited to the event on 21 June.

Johnson said City Hall could not "tolerate" Barnbrook bringing along Griffin or
"any other prominent member of the party" and urged Darren Johnson, the chair of
the assembly, to break with tradition by withdrawing the invitation.

The prospect of the attendance at the party of Griffin, who was convicted of
distributing material likely to incite racial hatred in 1998, has been
criticised by anti-racism campaigners.

"I imagine there will be a to-do and a hoot," Barnbrook said yesterday. "These
things are going to happen more and more as the [BNP] goes forward."

Today Johnson said he had decided to act. "I have learnt today that the London
assembly has passed an invitation to Her Majesty's garden party to Richard
Barnbrook of the BNP, following previous custom for all assembly members to be
invited," he said.

"It now transpires, however, that Mr Barnbrook plans to bring as his guest the
leader of the BNP, Mr Nick Griffin, or another prominent member of the party,
thereby threatening to turn a happy annual event - at which thousands of people
across the country are acknowledged for their service to the community - into a
political stunt.

"We cannot tolerate any such abuse of the invitation or any potential
embarrassment to Her Majesty. I am therefore writing to call on you to inform Mr
Barnbrook - at the earliest opportunity - that he must either bring a guest who
will not provoke political controversy, or consider his invitation rescinded."

The BNP has been hoping to cash in on disillusionment with mainstream politics
and pick up its first MEPs at the 4 June European elections. However, it has had
a poor showing in a series of polls, which have shown a surge in support for the
UK Independence party (Ukip).

"Many members of [the BNP] have been convicted of crimes of violence and of
racial harassment," said a spokesman for Searchlight, the anti-racist
organisation. "We would have thought that on security grounds alone he [Griffin]
would be denied access to Buckingham Palace."

News of the royal garden party visit comes after organisers of England's bid to
host the 2018 World Cup finals were criticised earlier this week for inviting
Barnbrook to a launch event. The prime minister, Gordon Brown, and the FA
chairman, Lord Triesman, spoke at the event, putting an emphasis on diversity,
but Barnbrook's attendance has proved hugely damaging to internal relations in
the game.

A spokesman for Buckingham Palace said he could not confirm facts about
individual invitations: "A number of organisations and bodies receive an
allocation of tickets for the garden parties so it is a matter for those
organisations who they invite."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

CELEBS AS MPS? GET OUT OF HERE!

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 560 words


ESTHER Rantzen says she was left with a "very warm" feeling after asking the
good people of Luton if they would like her to be their next MP.

So was I when I heard her say "I haven't made up my mind if I'm standing but
I've made up my mind that I love Luton."

A very warm feeling that started at the top of the thigh, dribbled down my leg
and ended up as a pool on the floor. Accompanied by belly-ripping laughter. What
a hoot.

Just Don't get me wrong, Esther's well qualified to be an MP. She ran off with a
married man, was once convicted of obstruction and has a ready-made catchphrase
to trot out whenever she cocks up - "That's Life". (Although she might have to
update it to "That's unreservedly Life.") P l u s s h e ' s already been
parachuted into a fetid pit of reptiles, insects and money-grubbing hasbeens on
I'm A Celebrity, so getting parachuted into Parliament would prove easy. what we
need, a But surely, policy-wise, you need a little more than "I'm addicted to
self-Celebrity publicity and I promise not to claim pounds 22,500 for dry rot
like that cheeky bitch who represents you now."

Another enforced refugee from peak-time telly, Lynn Faulds Wood, is also
thinking of standing on an antisleaze ticket. Meaning we could be in at the
birth of a new political force, The Fading Celebrity Party (FCP), whose mission
it is to clean-up public life.

What a brilliant idea. Replacing one shower of egojA BEAUTY website driven
parasites with another. And by the way, if you think the current MPs' demands
are outrageous wait until you're footing the bill for lunches at The Ivy, soap
awards outfits, lifestyle gurus, shrinks and facelifts.

Where will it end? Will WAGs join the FCP as their hubbies retirement looms?
Imagine Coleen's Election Diary in Closer: "Went canvassin' yesterday. Someone
asked me what I was standin' on.

"I said a pair of 12 grand Manolo Blahnik alligator boots which are killin'
me!!!! Life's chocker. Ta ra."

I can just see those grinning cretins from Ready, Steady, Puke cooking up a
"healthy" meal outside polling stations, Jordan vowing to boost the size of her
Bristol majority, Emmerdale's pub

Fading Party" re-named The Woolsack and the Honourable Kerry Katona MP for
Priory Central.

As George Galloway proved, once the TV cameras record you on all fours dressed
as a cat, licking milk from Rula Lenska's hand, you can't be taken seriously
again.

Fading celebrities have tried to change our political system before and failed
spectacularly. Think of the daddy of them all Robert Kilroy-Silk.

He returned to politics via UKIP, on a mission to get Britain out of Europe but
turned into such a megalomaniac the UKIP made sure he got out of them. So he
formed his own party called Veritas and learned the Truth. People hated him.

So now someone, whose brown visage, like horse dung in a field, was once
everywhere, is seen less than Osama bin Laden.

Look at Martin Bell. He deserted the TV cameras to run the Hamiltons out of
office in 1997. His mission? To clean up Parliament. So that worked then.

Why didn't our white-suited knight do anything when the John Lewis list and
second home flipping was explained to him? Let's all join forces to remind
fading celebrities that their only role in British politics is to say "if Labour
get in and put taxes up I'm emigrating."

That way, and that way alone, do they do their country proud.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

SUPPORT THE BLOODY-NOSE PARTY

BYLINE: KELVIN Mackenzie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 298 words


THE "experts" believe there will be a low turnout for the county council and
European elections on June 4. They are so wrong - it will be much bigger than
usual because you and me are going to cross miles of broken glass to give the
old-style corrupt politicians a massive bloody nose.

Under no circumstances must you put your cross down for your traditional home.
You can do that in a year's time at the General Election but now is the time to
get even. For the moats, for the second homes, for the trouser presses, for all
the "errors".

For all the sleights of hand and deception at your expense, I want you to vote
for the minority parties. I'm sure that, given the chance, the UKIP, Green and
English Democrat candidates would have had their hand in the till just like
everybody else.

But they weren't given the chance so they're clean. I'm a huge fan of Tebbit,
who once sent me a note finishing with the line: "Toss another socialist on the
fire." When he suggests looking elsewhere to place your vote we should take
note. He has given his life and that of his wife to the Tories.

He needs no lecture from Cameron on doing the right thing.

I quite like the English Democrats, who want a parliament for England and have
teamed up with Plaid Cymru and the SNP.

The Greens aren't for me. They appear to want to put our tanks on eBay. So that
leaves UKIP. I know Nigel Farage, their leader, reasonably well and have drunk
in his local with him. I like the idea of his party doing well as it will
outrage Brussels and his team will cause no end of problems. But what I really
look forward to is the despondent faces of the Labour, Tory and Lib Dem
hierarchy when they see their little crooked monopoly has been blown apart.

This lot are finished. You are the masters now. You all know what to do.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Farage 'throws in kitchen sink' to woo Labour voters

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 265 words


The UK Independence Party will spend £2 million over the next fortnight to
target Labour supporters for the first time at the European elections, The Times
has learnt.

The Eurosceptic party is hoping to match on June 4 its performance in the 2004
European elections when it seized 16 per cent of the votes, beating the Liberal
Democrats and taking more than half of those received by Labour and the
Conservatives.

This week UKIP, which is led by Nigel Farage, began its national MEP campaign
with 1,200 billboards across the country. It has also beefed up its advisory
unit for the Euro elections with the recent hiring of David Cracknell, the
former Sunday Times journalist.

According to a Populus poll conducted two weeks ago, just after the MPs'
expenses scandal broke, UKIP supporters accounted for 6 per cent of the 1,500
surveyed. A few days later, a YouGov poll showed a sharp bounce to 16 per cent -
the same level of support for UKIP as at the elections five years ago.

Andrew Cooper, a Populus director, said: "This is a long-established pattern
where voters in the UK don't really understand what the European elections are
for, so they are an easy way for the electorate to register a 'plague on all
your houses' vote and go with UKIP."

Mr Farage said yesterday: "Of the recent inquiries we have had from our
first-time buyers [new supporters], around 60 per cent of them have come from
Labour. We're going to throw the kitchen sink in for this campaign. We used to
be seen as old, male and a bit like the rugby club on a day out. But we've tried
to make ourselves a much younger party."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Voters of Devon extend a hand to the Earl of UKIP

BYLINE: Simon de Bruxelles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26,27

LENGTH: 755 words


At the age of 59, William, the 10th Earl of Dartmouth, is looking forward to the
most important month of his life. On June 4 as a candidate for the UK
Independence Party, he is standing for election to the European Parlia-mentan
institution he loathes. Just under three weeks later the Earl, previously
described as one of Britain's most eligible bachelors, will be entering another
institution for the first time, when he marries Fiona Campbell, a former model,
at a castle near his Devon country home. The Earl is the grandson of the
romantic novelist Barbara Cartland and the son, from her first marriage, of
Raine Spencer, mother of Diana, Princess of Wales.

As voters turn against the main parties, he could be one of the candidates to
benefit. A career in finance and chartered accountancy has not pre-cluderegular
appearances in the gossip columns. Not that potential voters in Chudleigh, a
Devon village where he was delivering leaflets yesterday, had any idea of the
identity of the diffident, middle-aged man in a blue suit, and he was too polite
to tell them.

"You cannot force people to stop for a conversation," cautioned Lord Dartmouth,
"That is why it is good to have a handful of leaflets." He even took off his
yellow and purple UKIP rosette before entering the local pub.

He need not have worried. And outside, the response from the harried mothers
collecting their children from school and office workers returning home was
overwhelmingly positive. Only one middle-aged, unshaven man in a scruffy anorak
waved away the proffered leaflet while loudly complaining: "I am fed up with the
lot of you and your fiddles. I'm voting BNP." The Earl found something positive
in the encounter. "You know, that's the first BNP voter I have met," he said.

The scandal over MPs' expenses may benefit smaller parties but it has not been
discussed at the hustings, according to Lord Dartmouth. "I have been to four
public meetings and to my surprise it has not been raised once," he said. David
Porteous, a publisher who stopped for a chat, told him: "I have a lot of
European friends and we all hate the EU. I was an old Labour supporter but I
will be voting UKIP in this election."

Siobhan Lane, an office manager, said: "I am concerned at the huge cost of the
EU. I don't think we should pull out completely but I don't like the idea of our
laws being dictated from Brussels." The South West, which for the purposes of
the European election stretches from Gloucestershire to the Scilly Isles, is
fertile ground for UKIP as well as the Liberal Democrats.

The disastrous impact on farming of the Common Agricultural Policy and the
virtual collapse of the fishing industry under the weight of EU quotas may be
two reasons for the success of UKIP. Lord Dartmouth, who dislikes the
description of UKIP as a "fringe party", stands a good chance of winning one of
the region's six European seats. One of the party's two sitting MEPs is not
standing for re-election, putting him into No 2 position.

His UKIP biography records that as an unsuccessful Conservative parliamentary
candidate and former Tory member of the House of Lords, he defected to the party
after David Cameron denounced it as "a bunch of ... fruitcakes and loonies and
closet racists". But politics rather than personalities count in an election
under a "list" system where electors vote for parties, not individuals. Which
can lead to surprises.

Trevor Colman, a retired veteran of Devon & Cornwall Constabulary, found himself
elevated to the role of MEP after standing unsuccessfully in 2004. Last October
the UKIP MEP Graham Booth unexpectedly stood down over ill health and Mr Colman,
as next in line, inherited his job. Seeing the EU at work from the inside
increased his dislike of the institution.

"It is unreformed and unreformable. We have to get out." he said. "I am there
because it is important that people in this country know what it is up to, and
we are not being told."

There are enough sharpened wooden stakes stacked in the lobby of UKIP's
headquarters in Devon to account for all 27 EU Commissioners, as well as Gordon
Brown and most of his Cabinet. Disappointingly, perhaps, for some of the party's
more rabidly antiEU activists, the stakes are not for killing blood-suckers but
for the UKIP billboards sprouting in fields. Over the past decade UKIP may have
suffered more schisms than the early Church, but if enough lapsed and
disillusioned followers of other faiths join forces with its true believers it
may no longer be right to call it a "fringe party".

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 10th Earl meets a first-time UKIP backer, David Porteous, who
previously voted Labour. "I have European friends," he said. "We all hate the
EU"
ADAM GERRARD / SOUTH WEST NEWS SERVICE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

ANDREW ALEXANDER

LENGTH: 843 words


POWER, AND NOT MONEY, IS THE ROOT OF THIS EVIL

THE PRIME Minister insists that Labour MPs who 'defy' the rules on expenses
cannot be party candidates. He doesn't seem certain himself what that means.

Cabinet Minister Hazel Blears's record on expenses was ' unacceptable' -- but
apparently accepted after her cashback. Others' unacceptability means they
cannot stand. He has in mind a cull of Labour MPs, but cannot make up his mind
which.

Perhaps culling will become an inter-party competition helping to promote an
erroneous public belief that purer government is bound to produce better
government. The sad truth is that while we don't want crooks, it would be even
worse to have a parliament full of high-minded puritans.

'They're just in it for the money' has been almost universal since the scandal
broke. If only it were true, if only! Then we could all rest happy, at least
confident that our masters were merely venal and corruptible in a tradition
which has operated throughout history and in all nations.

Financial corruption such as we see today is not the basic problem -- no, it
really isn't. It is not the hunger for money but for power which is at the root
of our political problems.

The current public rage runs the risk of becoming a dangerous diversion from the
reasons why we are such an unhappy nation where insulting petty tyranny marches
alongside collapsing standards in almost every field. Do you imagine that if
every MP had obeyed the rules on expenses 100pc the country would be any less
misruled?

The menace we face now, as we have for so long, arises from the politicians'
urge to find ever more ways to boss us around, to tell us what to do and how to
do it throughout our lives, to enjoy the thrill of importance and what
Shakespeare called 'the insolence of office'.

that we do is today seen as beyond the scope of ministerial control and
interference and 'nannying'. From cradle to the grave, the citizen faces
government interference, regulation, penalties, targets and red-tape. Power not
money is what threatens our lives.

The current row, bad enough in itself, can either be a good lesson: we should
not entrust such people with such authority over our lives and our purses . Or
we can blithely continue to believe that the man in Whitehall -- the minister
who enacts policy -- really does know best what is good for us.

It would be easy to list all the powers that have been seized, starting with
what our children should learn in school, which schools parents should choose,
how the young should be further educated, what skills are desirable and how they
should be acquired.

Or to itemise how once a citizen reaches manhood he is told, even ordered, how
he should save for old age, or how employers sink under a mass of regulations
about how they should conduct their business and provide him with a job .

Or how the citizen is told in what measure he may buy fruit and vegetables, how
the farmer is instructed in what he may grow. And so on. But the list would be
huge.

It is easier to ask if anyone can name areas of our lives where the Government
does not interfere. The value of our present crisis is that it has demonstrated
that the men we elect to rule us are not better than ourselves, as they like to
claim, but actually worse -- no great surprise to many of us.

In that case, comes the obvious question, why should we remain ready to let them
regulate our lives in such appalling detail? It is not any old issue of the day,
it is the issue.

It is no good, dear reader, saying that this has been a useful lesson in the
shortcomings of our system and that you will elect 'better' people in future.
You won't, you know. You will elect the same sort of people with the same lust
to boss us around.

THE public, will keep saying that this or that grievance demands political
action. I can think of few MPs who will bluntly tell grumbling constituents or
pressure groups that, really, these are not matters for government or
Parliament.

If you think that a Conservative government would make a radical change, think
again. So far this week we have had Tory frontbencher David Willetts -- he of
the lightbulbs -- leading Opposition demands for better funding for training,
apprenticeships and the like, detailing even the skills which should be studied.

We have also had Shadow Health Secretary Andrew Lansley -- currently repaying
62,600 of his expenses -- promising extra funds for screening the teeth of
five-yearolds. And it is still only Wednesday.

The only election promise worth a damn these days is less government, only laws
to repeal the many that oppress us.

Which brings us to the interesting matter of UKIP, which must be feeling that
Christmas has come early this year.

It is more than just a useful party for a protest vote. Brussels is a major
source of the regulations which ministers snatch up eagerly and then proceed to
gold plate.

It is a far greater scandal with far greater consequences that MPs do not even
bother to read, let alone vote on, these measures, rather than the fact they
have their fingers in the till.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Let's not forget there are elections looming;
LEADER

BYLINE: Ann Widdecombe

SECTION: LEADER; 13

LENGTH: 425  words


OK, OK, so MPs' expenses are the topic of the moment but in case anybody has
missed it there are some elections looming. There is a general expectation that
minor and extreme parties will benefit from the current divorce between the
people and politicians but matters are too serious to use these polls as
vehicles only for protest. There are some defining issues and people should vote
accordingly.

Labour is determined Britain shall be signed up to the Lisbon Treaty come what
may. The Conservatives pledge a referendum as long as the so-called treaty,
which is in reality a constitution, remains unratified. Indeed the failure of
this Government to offer a referendum is one of its most blatant broken
promises.

Wrong-footed by a Conservative promise to submit the proposed new European
constitution to a referendum Labour reluctantly followed suit but no sooner was
the ink on the ballot papers dry than Blair was reneging. Brown's excuse is that
the Lisbon Treaty is different and that his party made no commitment in respect
of it but it is in fact 96 per cent the same.

We have to choose whether we want to integrate further into the EU or attempt to
hold the line at the already high level of absorption we have reached. We have
to decide if Britain should be ruled from Westminster or Brussels and
Strasbourg. Either we have some fight left in us or we do not. The Conservatives
say we have but Brown has given up defending our sovereignty.

UKIP is not the answer to any of this. It will never form a government but the
Conservatives can and must and will then need their people in place in Europe as
well. If the anti-Labour votes are scattered then the Conservative majority will
be weakened and anybody serious about changing our relationship with Europe must
want Labour thoroughly routed because Lisbon is only the last in a series of
disastrous treaties.

BLAIR had been in Downing Street only five minutes before he gave up Britain's
hard-won opt-outs from the Social Chapter, thereby sacrificing quite
unnecessarily the unique flexibility of our labour market and inflicting a new
raft o f bureaucratic nonsense on British employers. The treaties of Amsterdam
and Nice followed and now Brown completes the process with Lisbon.

We can yet stop him but it means voting Conservative and not for some minor
party on June 3.

We can clean up expenses both at Westminster and Europe but we will never
reverse Lisbon once we are in. The matter is urgent and the choice is between a
takeover of the UK or serious resistance. There is no third choice.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Regaining sovereignty is the only sane way forward

SECTION: LETTERS; 36

LENGTH: 108  words


THE Conservative leader David Cameron has described UK Independence Party MEPs
as 'a bunch of nutters'.

But Conservative governments signed three of the six treaties that surrendered
the power to govern our own country to the EU supranational state. Were those
actions sane?

UKIP wants to regain control of our borders and stop unlimited immigration, to
stop paying GBP 40million of our money every day to Brussels, and to keep
control of our courts. In short, UKIP wants to regain the power to make our own
laws.

By leaving the EU we can get our country back and make it great again. Is that
nuts?

Jacqueline Jones, UKIP prospective Parliamentary candidate

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

Reply Letters and emails: Comic turn

BYLINE: RP Blows

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 35 words


*The NHS's swine flu leaflet arrived the other day, serving as a wrapper for no
fewer than three fliers for political parties - No2EU, Ukip and the BNP. Is
there a subliminal message here somewhere?

RP Blows

London

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

BNP leader Nick Griffin to attend Queen's summer garden party

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Head of far-right party gets guest pass from London assembly member

FULL TEXT

Nick Griffin, the leader of the far-right British National party, is planning to
attend a garden party in June hosted by the Queen at Buckingham palace,
according to an associate.

Richard Barnbrook, a BNP member of the London assembly, said he was taking
Griffin to next month's event as his guest. "I imagine there will be a to-do and
a hoot. These things are going to happen more and more as the [BNP] goes
forward," he said.

A BNP spokesman said that for Barnbrook to "snub an invite from the Queen would
be absurd", adding: "If we get elected MEPs this is the kind of thing we are
going to be doing on a regular basis." The event will take place after the
European elections next month.

The BNP has been hoping to cash in on disillusion with mainstream politics and
to pick up its first MEPs. However, it has had a poor showing in a series of
polls, which have shown a surge in support for the UK Independence party, UKIP.

All members of the London assembly have been invited to the event on 21 June but
the inclusion of Griffin, who in 1998, was convicted of distributing material
likely to incite racial hatred, has been criticised by anti-racism campaigners.

"Many members of his organisation have been convicted of crimes of violence and
of racial harassment," said a spokesman for the anti-racist organisation,
Searchlight. "We would have thought that on security grounds alone he would be
denied access to Buckingham palace."

News of the royal garden party visit comes two days after the organisers of
England's bid to host the 2018 World Cup finals were  for inviting Barnbrook to
a launch event. The prime minister, Gordon Brown, and the FA chairman, Lord
Triesman, spoke at the event, putting an emphasis on diversity, but Barnbrook's
attendance has proved hugely damaging to internal relations in the game.

A spokesman for Buckingham palace said today he could not confirm facts about
individual invitations: "A number of organisations and bodies receive an
allocation of tickets for the garden parties so it is a matter for those
organisations who they invite."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

A leadership election would do Labour a lot of good

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1150 words


One Scottish machine politician down; one more to go. Although to describe
Michael Martin as a machine politician may be to flatter him. He was really the
beneficiary of machine politics, put into the job of Speaker nine years ago by
Labour operators calculating factional advantage.

The parallels between the fates of Michael Martin and Gordon Brown are
screamingly obvious, but there is no necessary connection. The boxing analogy
applies to both: the Prime Minister increasingly looks, as the Speaker did on
Monday, as if he has taken too many punches and is not quite sure where he is.
And they are both damaged by the popular rage against MPs' expenses, because
they both tried to prevent the disinfectant of sunlight - another of David
Cameron's effective phrases borrowed from America - from reaching the dark
corners; they both acted too late to try to reform the system.

This week we saw the Prime Minister on television saying that "what we have
seen" of MPs' expenses "has angered and appalled me". Which was a bit rich,
because it was with his knowledge and tacit approval that the House of Commons
Commission spent thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money fighting a court case
to prevent their publication.

In the campaign of obstruction, the Prime Minister and the Speaker were like
Sinn Fein and the IRA, pretending to be separate organisations but tied by
deniable understandings. Harriet Harman, Brown's deputy, and the Speaker himself
are the two most important members of the House of Commons Commission. In that
sense, Martin is not so much a scapegoat as a sacrifice, left out on the
hillside for the ravening furies of the gods of democracy. Although it would be
too much of a conspiracy to suggest that Brown left him there deliberately in
the hope that his metaphorical blood would appease the public's anger.

It is not an edifying sight. Much of the anger at expenses is unreasonable and
unreasoning, making no distinction between the fair costs of maintaining a
second home and claims that were not even "within the rules", such as for
mortgages that had been paid off. But politics is not about what's fair. It is,
often, about leadership. Nick Clegg and David Cameron have shown it; Michael
Martin and Gordon Brown haven't.

It doesn't matter that Clegg paid back £80 for telephone calls to abroad, or
that Cameron now thinks he shouldn't have claimed for removing his wisteria. Or
that they have sprung into action guiltily after being caught out. Martin and
Brown's first response to being found was to pretend that nothing had happened.
Although it should be pointed out that, in Brown's abortive, tardy and much
mocked YouTube proposals, he nearly got the reforms right: a flat-rate allowance
for MPs representing out-of-London seats. His mistake was to tie it to
attendance at the House, so that it looked like paying MPs to turn up to work.

So, yes, the Speaker's departure removes one of the moats around Castle Brown
that could have soaked up the flood of public invective. Martin's going does
not, however, resolve any of the tricky questions of mechanism or timing in
getting rid of a prime minister.

It ought to follow from Brown's failure of leadership on the expenses issue that
the case for his departure is strengthened. And so it is. It ought to follow
from Alan Johnson, the Health Secretary, emerging from the abattoir of expenses
with clean hands that the case for his taking over is strengthened. And so it
is. But neither of those arguments is the same as strengthening the forces
likely to make it happen.

The key to a coup is political will, and one of the big effects of the expenses
furore has been to demoralise Labour MPs, from the furthest-flung of back
benches to the front seats in the Cabinet. The other thing is that the gale
force of voter fury makes it seem pointless for Labour to change leader. The
idea that the Government could rescue itself simply by rearranging personnel
looks beside the point. A ComRes poll for The Independent on Sunday at the
weekend found few takers for the proposition that Johnson would make a better
prime minister than Brown. Johnson has been dragged back by the "they're all as
bad as each other" factor, hitting the governing party hardest.

So I am uncertain about the likelihood of a move against Brown straight after
the European election results being announced on 7 June, even if Labour does
come fourth behind the Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence Party. And the
timing is not yet right.

The coup would have to be delivered by several members of the Cabinet, acting
together and knowing that they have the support of a majority of Labour MPs. If
Brown is prevailed upon to stand down, the party's rules provide for the Cabinet
to choose one of its number as prime minister and acting leader of the party
until a leadership election is held.

It may be fashionable among some of my fellow Alan Johnson supporters to
advocate another handover without a Labour Party vote. That does not seem like a
good idea. I agree with one Labour MP who wants a change who told me that such a
switch would be "cynical and horrible".

A leadership election - a comradely affair between Johnson (as prime minister),
Jon Cruddas and Hazel Blears, possibly - could help refresh the party. It would,
after all, cheer everyone up and give the media something to talk about other
than how venal MPs are. What was fascinating about Johnson's answers when
readers of this newspaper asked him questions on Monday was that he advocated
proportional representation: it made him look pluralist, humble and reformist. I
don't agree with strict proportionality, but I think it right to honour Labour's
1997 pledge to let the people decide.

But if Labour changed its leader again it would be neither wise nor right to
resist the clamour for a general election soon afterwards. The candidates in a
leadership election would have to pledge to go to the polls soon. If there is a
coup this summer, then, the new prime minister would have to go to the country
in the autumn. But I sense no appetite on Labour's part for bringing forward
their next appointment with their constituents.

So it may be that Gordon Brown has to limp on, wounded, until the autumn.
Labour's annual conference hardly bears thinking about. But that might be the
time for change. Then, Alan Johnson could promise a general election in the
spring, close enough to the expected date of May 2010 for it not to matter.

Is it worth it? Of course it is. Johnson as leader could make the difference
between a wipe-out and holding the Conservatives to a small majority. The one
lesson that Labour MPs ought to take from the expenses story is that, if you can
see disaster coming right at you, take evasive action before it is too late.

John Rentoul is chief political commentator for The Independent on Sunday. His
blog is at www.independent.co.uk/ jrentoul

j.rentoul@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

Feature - The dangerous politics of anti-politics

BYLINE: Jeremy Corbyn

LENGTH: 922 words


Monday was one of those surreal days that happen at Westminster.

Parliament Square and the streets around were blockaded for most of the day by
Tamil people, desperately worried about families and loved ones in Vanni as news
of the Sri Lankan army's final push came through.

Later, as news of Velupillai Prabhakaran's death was reported, the crowds became
bigger and more angry.

Last Saturday, a march in Birmingham asked for government action to protect jobs
and save companies in the recession.

Another march in London expressed support for the Palestinian people and
demanded a new policy towards Israel.

Parliament, on the other hand, was discussing MPs' expenses, or, more
prosaically, the additional costs allowance.

The long-drawn-out saga of MPs' battle to get out of having to disclose their
expense claims in response to a request issued under the Freedom of Information
Act finally ended with agreement to publish all the details ... in July.

The Daily Telegraph jumped the gun, having apparently bought the information
from a stolen disk, and has been publishing ever since. Non-London MPs have been
able to claim up to £23,000 per year and the effects have been dramatic in media
and political terms.

Obviously those who make fraudulent claims should suffer the consequences and
equally obviously the system needs a big change.

Michael Martin as Speaker vainly tried to make an appropriate statement on
Monday but, if anything, only managed to make the situation worse.

This is one of the few issues relating to Parliament that has sustained the
interest of both the "heavy" papers and the tabloids at the same time and
consequently has filled the airwaves of chat shows and dominated most political
programmes.

But what initially emerged as an understandable anger and revulsion at
individual examples of excessive claims has now become, first, a contest between
the party leaders - in which Cameron has had the easiest ride - and, second, an
attack on politics as a whole.

In the failure of MPs to get to grips with public feeling, a space has been
created for other forces.

These are not progressive forces but the harbingers of desperation and doubt.

Thus UKIP has apparently gained much ground ahead of the European elections and
the BNP is already making hay.

Strange, as one of UKIP's MEPs has spent most of the time since his election in
prison for fraud, while the BNP's racist policies and the record of its
candidates go unchallenged in most of the media.

We now have an openly right-wing agenda designed to ignore the issues of the
recession, the massive bail-out of the banks and the bonuses paid to directors,
and which focuses only on attacking democracy.

Unless Labour can get to grips with this and provide a viable alternative, the
ground is open for a Conservative government and a frightening rise in
intolerance and the far right.

But this anti-democratic atmosphere has its antecedents in the 1980s and the
rise of new Labour.

Essentially, the economic strategies of Reagan and Thatcher came down to money
being everything - how it was made was irrelevant. Thus asset stripping, tax
cutting, privatisation of public services and impoverishment of the poorest
became articles of faith.

New Labour under Blair sought to accommodate these attitudes and, while they did
invest in public service improvements, they also went even further in
deregulating financial services and threatened - andcarried out - privatisation
of public services.

At no stage did new Labour ever challenge the notion that public services run by
publicly employed people are intrinsicially better than private services run for
profit by unaccountable companies. New Labour also demonstrated an attitude to
welfare and means testing that has no place in socialist thinking at all.

These attitudes did not stop at government policy. They were the product of a
wider agenda.

The whole new Labour project was to weaken and ultimately destroy the link
between trade unions and the Labour Party and to ensure that its funding came
from the wealthy and influential, who gradually became the main source of
income.

This has led to a loss of party members, a reduction in activity and a whole
movement vulnerable to the anti-politics debate through disillusionment. A weak
and unfocused Labour movement at a time of recession is the perfect breeding
ground for the far right.

The saga of the Speaker, the expenses, the claims and the ridicule will be
played out in the next few weeks and we may even end up with a more accountable
system and openness as a result. The damage, however, will extend to the very
idea of representative democracy.

Unless the labour movement can deliver protection of the poorest in the
recession, permanent control of the banks and the banking system and provision
of homes, jobs and opportunities, then we leave ourselves vulnerable to the far
right.

Essentially the BNP and UKIP are the same thing. The BNP has all the
accoutrements of a fascist party - UKIP are much the same but with blazers and
more refined accents.

Their message is one of despair and division, blaming the poorest and most
vulnerable migrant workers for the economic failures of a system built on greed
and exploitation.

Opposing the BNP means campaigning for high electoral participation to minimise
their influence and adopting policies of substance for those most affected by
the recession.

Parliament must urgently get its house in order and be seen to be of relevance.
The alternative is a return to naked monetarism and its enforcement by fear and
bigotry.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

Letters - The real EU leftwingers

LENGTH: 208 words


Mark Grayling (M Star May 13) appears to takes a very cynical view of political
democracy. I would certainly dispute his statement that the Party of European
Socialists (PES) is a progressive group in Europe.

He neglected to mention that the Left Alliance of Communist and Socialist
Parties European United Left/Nordic Green Left Group (GUE/NGL) is the left,
green and communist grouping within the European Parliament formed in 1989.

In 1998 the British socialist MEP Ken Coates joined this group. The Italian MEP
and former environment commissioner Carlo Ripa Di Meana is a member, having left
the PES.

Other left parties which have close co-operative arrangements with GUE/NGL
include the Socialist Left Party (SV) of Norway, the Parti du Travail of
Switzerland and La Gauche/Dei Lenk from Luxembourg.

No2EU - Yes to Democracy is a British left alternative to the PES, which
contains social democratic parties including the Labour Party, and represents
the only alternative to the Thatcherite Tories or new Labour other than the BNP
or UKIP.

Hopefully, if No2EU does well in the EU elections, it will be able to work with
the GUE/NGL and the Party of the European Left, which truly represent a
progressive group in Europe.

ANDREW ROBINSON, Peterborough.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Lumley's quick march to the sound of Green;
People Adam Sherwin

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 186 words


It is an endorsement likely to carry some considerable weight in these febrile
times. The battle for Joanna Lumley's political soul has been won by the Greens.

Fresh from her Gurkha victory over Gordon Brown, the actress has thrown her
support in the European elections on June 4 behind Caroline Lucas, of the Green
Party, who is one of the current MEPs for the South East region. Lumley said:
"Caroline is a tireless campaigner in the European Parliament, staunchly
defending human rights and strongly promoting greater protection for animals. I
urge you to cast a positive vote for a better future by voting Green in the
European Elections."

Both women have campaigned to end factory farming and protested against human
rights abuses in Burma. But will Dr Lucas, the first offical "leader" of the
Greens, become overshadowed by the party's high-profile, glamorous, new backer?
"We don't want a repeat of Robert Kilroy-Silk and that UKIP takeover," said one
grumbling activist.

Whatever climate change there may be within the Greens, the party must surely
now be firmly in support of settlement rights for the Gurkhas.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

In spirit of independence, all support welcome;
City DiaryMartin Waller

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 177 words


David Sullivan, chairman of Birmingham City Football Club, is the latest
businessman to throw his support behind Ukip in the forthcoming European
elections. He has become a big buddy of Mike Nattrass, the pro-independence
party's West Midlands MEP, and announced his support at a campaign event at the
club.

Sullivan gives the usual reasons for his decision to vote Ukip on June 4. "The
British economy is in deep recession. How can we continue to pay £40 million
each day for EU membership?" he says in a letter to Nattrass. According to the
latest Sunday Times Rich List, Sullivan is worth £450 million, but I am told he
has stopped short of making a political donation.

Are there any reservations at Ukip about accepting the backing of someone with
such dubious antecedents, I ask? "Erm ... We're interested in getting support
from people who have been successful, and Mr Sullivan certainly has been
successful," they say. "That's it, really." Yes, but he made his money from porn
originally. "And newspapers ... which you've got no problem with." No, I suppose
not.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2

In spirit of independence, all support welcome;
City Diary

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 177 words


David Sullivan, chairman of Birmingham City Football Club, is the latest
businessman to throw his support behind Ukip in the forthcoming European
elections. He has become a big buddy of Mike Nattrass, the pro-independence
party's West Midlands MEP, and announced his support at a campaign event at the
club.

Sullivan gives the usual reasons for his decision to vote Ukip on June 4. "The
British economy is in deep recession. How can we continue to pay £40 million
each day for EU membership?" he says in a letter to Nattrass. According to the
latest Sunday Times Rich List, Sullivan is worth £450 million, but I am told he
has stopped short of making a political donation.

Are there any reservations at Ukip about accepting the backing of someone with
such dubious antecedents, I ask? "Erm ... We're interested in getting support
from people who have been successful, and Mr Sullivan certainly has been
successful," they say. "That's it, really." Yes, but he made his money from porn
originally. "And newspapers ... which you've got no problem with." No, I suppose
not.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

GORBALS MICK GULPED THE AIR LIKE A WINDED WELTER WEIGHT

LENGTH: 891 words


QUENTIN LETTS SPEAKING ' ON THE SPEAKER'S HUMILIATION

WELL, that went jolly well. Up stands the Speaker to bring clarity to
proceedings and within minutes the Commons is bickering and a-boil, MPs shouting
at the old purple proboscis, urging him for God's sake to go.

Another triumph.

The Speaker was even attacked by Sir Patrick Parliament, the ancient Cormack,
sage of Staffordshire, bard of the Establishment since the days medieval maids
served foaming mead jugs in Westminster Hall.

He holed the Speaker below the trouser line with a deadly reference to Neville
Chamberlain and the Norway debate. The House gasped.

For Sir Patrick publicly to attack a Speaker is as momentous as news that the
Tower of London's ravens are packing their spongebags and have asked for the
bill. Gorbals is a goner.

And yet this idiot Speaker refused yesterday to acknowledge his fate. He's
holding on in there, the last mussel in the mariniere pot to open its shell.
Muttley's in the cockpit and unless someone can hoik hard on his ejector seat,
we're all goin' down.

Gordon Brown was there for the statement but did not stay. While Speaker Martin
was droning away in a high, hesitant voice, the Prime Minister fiddled with his
shirt cuffs. A moment later, as soon as the insults started to fly, Mr Brown
fled. Macavity has left the building, folks. The first point of order went
straight to the nasties of the matter. Gordon Prentice (Lab, Pendle), a man
Lancashire can be proud of, was as clench-jawed as I have seen.

He curtly told Gorbals that a motion of no confidence would be put on the
Commons Order Paper today. Mr Speaker: 'This is not a point of order.' Mr
Prentice, from his seat: Oh yes it is!'

This was but the first of several examples of open defiance of the Chair. It
might not sound much but believe me, the Speaker of the House of Commons has not
been treated with such open contempt in living memory. We were treading on
virgin quicksand.

Douglas Carswell (Harwich) tried to tell the Speaker his moral authority was
shot.

Mr Martin's big-bellied boosters, who sat on the Labour benches with crossed
arms and sour scowls, let rip with some yaah-booery. Mr Carswell is a
Conservative, you see.

The Martin clan warriors, when not arguing that their man is a victim of
snobbery (it's like Ali G saying 'is it cos I is black?') love to put it about
that the Speaker's opponents are all Tories. All this illustrates is the
tribalism of Mr Martin ñ the root of his problems.

Things started to unravel crazily when the Speaker tried to claim that the
motion against him was not 'substantive'. Richard Bacon (Con, Norfolk S),
standing at the far end: 'It is! The Deputy Leader of the House just told me.'

The Deputy Leader, Chris Bryant, was standing right next to Mr Bacon. A look of
instant, gaseous nausea fell on Mr Bryant's face. Talk about being landed in it.
The heckling increased.

Speaker Mick ñ who only a moment earlier had been boasting about his
parliamentary expertise ñ was thrown by this intervention. He gulped the air
like a winded welterweight. The Commons clerk, just below him, was consulted.
Poor clerk. What a figure in torment. He twisted his angular body, examined his
fingernails, whispered some advice. Gorbals couldnae hear it. Farce. Klaxons.
Stretcher bearers!

Now it was the turn of David Winnick (Lab, Walsall N) to take his toffee hammer
to the shattering edifice.

with reluctance-sure thing, David), he said it would help if Gorbals gave the
House a hint of his early retirement. Speaker: 'That's not a matter for today.'
Mr Winnick refused to accept this, giving him some loud lip.

The session was fast deteriorating into just what this beetroot-gilled
incompetent had hoped to avoid: a slagging match about his uselessness. David
Heath, Lib Dem frontbencher, had a bash. Nick Clegg, his party leader, looked on
approvingly.

By now the clerk was doodling with a green pen. Put on the spot again by the
Speaker, the poor wretch started to fiddle with his shoelaces. It could take
weeks of gentle counselling to return the clerk to normality.

'Order!' bawled the Speaker, vainly arguing that rules did not permit open
debate at this moment. Few people took any notice. When Sir Stuart Bell (Lab,
Middlesbrough) tried to do some pro-Speaker greasing, Mr Winnick shouted: 'What
world is he living in?' Laughter. Sir Stuart said that 'the majority will
support this statement'. Another voice: 'How d'ya know?' Sarcastic mirth.

Natascha Engel (Lab, NE Derbys) sat at the back of the House, bolt upright,
horror etched on her soft features. Richard Shepherd (Con, Aldridge) told the
Speaker that 'as long as you are in the chair' there could be no salvation. A
female, pro-Martin voice shrieked: 'Cheap!'

Bob Spink (UKIP, Castle Point) was the only other person standing up for the
Speaker. Is this formal UKIP policy? So much for them being the voice of
disenchanted voters.

And outside beat the bongo drums of protest ñ Tamils, as it happens, but it
could as easily have been English yeomen disgusted by this speakerish mule
refusing to vacate his sullied stable.

***

SIR Patrick Cormack referred yesterday to the 'Norway debate'. Neville
Chamberlain was ousted as Prime Minister in 1940 after Britain's failure to
liberate Norway during the Second World War. He faced a rebellion on a motion
which was effectively treated as a vote of no confidence.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

QC CAUGHT IN 'SECOND HOME'ROW

LENGTH: 1181 words


RICHARD KAY

BUYING a property abroad is always fraught with pitfalls. But the old adage of a
problem shared is a problem halved went sadly awry when leading QC Philip
Cayford decided to buy a second home in France with a pal.

Marlborough-educated Cayford, who specialises in family law -- his clients have
included Atonement author Ian McEwan and Mercedes Benz heir Mick Flick -- bought
what he hoped would be an idyllic retreat in the hillside village of Bonnieux in
Provence.

The cost was 600,0000 euros -- at the time worth 6420,000 -- which he shared
with a chum, Oriental art dealer Susan Ollemans.

That was six years ago, but in 2007, Ms Ollemans decided she wanted to end their
agreement and Cayford, she alleges, offered to buy her out of her half of the
house for 250,000 euros -- then worth 6167,000, now around 6220,000.

But, she claims, he didn't pay her the full amount as agreed and she is now
asking for another 667,714.

Cayford is also an acclaimed wildlife film-maker and conservationist -- his 1992
film The Last Show On Earth had Kenneth Branagh as narrator and music by Elton
John and David Gilmour. He lives at Littlecote in Hungerford, Berks, with his
physiotherapist partner Tanya Andrews.

'Philip has been totally honourable. He has paid her everything he owes her, but
she is claiming more,' says Tanya.

'It is partly because she is claiming the full rate the euro was worth at the
time, but the pound has dropped since then.

'She is also trying to claim interest of 8 per cent, but where can you get 8 per
cent these days? There was no legal contract, only an agreement between friends
made over a glass of wine.'

Cayford adds: 'I am putting in a robust defence to this claim and I hope that
will be the end of it and that it can be settled amicably.

'I don't want to go into the details -- but I don't expect that the matter will
in fact go to court.'

Speaking from Hong Kong, Ms Ollemans says: 'I'd rather not discuss it.'

PARTY PIECES CANNES FILM FESTIVAL

GETTING SERIOUS: Last year she stunned Cannes in a flimsy, barely-there dress
that exposed her bejewelled undergarments, but yesterday, a demurelooking Lady
Victoria Hervey, 32, (below) confessed her arrival on the Riviera jarred with
her recent trip to Cameroon, where she investigated the illegal trade in gorilla
meat for a Born Free Foundation documentary. 'I've just come back from West
Africa, so it's weird being here,' says the socialite sister of the Marquess of
Bristol. 'While there, we kept getting stopped by people posing as police. It
was frightening.' Victoria, who learned howto handle a gun for the trip, adds:
'They would say: "King Kong likes blondes." It was true -- we went to an animal
sanctuary and I was the only one the gorilla would approach.'

GOING SERIOUS: Artist-turned-film director Sam Taylor-Wood showed off her new
teen love interest, actor Aaron Johnson, 23 years her junior. They've been seen
at the Ivy Club and Mr Chow's in west London, but their appearance arm-in-arm at
the

Quintessentially party was the first time they have publicly 'come out'. Friends
are amused by how much it mirrors the brief romance last year of her estranged
art dealer husband Jay Jopling with pop's Lily Allen.

BLONDE AMBITION: Gushing about her new 'friendship' with Gordon Brown's wife
Sarah, Paris Hilton tells me: 'I love her, she's so cool. For a young woman like
me to meet someone like that is inspirational. She looks great and what she's
doing for the world is great. Togetherwe could be an amazing team.' Look out.

MARINA'S ON THE CASE FOR HOEY

UP UNTIL now, she was a society lass who did a bit of modelling, graced the
pages of Tatler magazine and occasionally stepped out with louche types such as
Prince Michael of Kent's son, Freddie Windsor.

But instead of looking forward to the usual round of glamorous parties, Marina
Hanbury (left), daughter of Old Etonian website designer Tim Hanbury, can be
found hard at work in the House of Commons office of Labour heroine Kate Hoey.
And the MP for Vauxhall, who was famously cut short by bad-tempered Speaker
Michael Martin, is delighted. 'She is fantastic,' says Kate, who has been
employing Marina for the past eight months. 'She's a full-time caseworker
dealing with constituents' questions on housing benefit, social security
problems and immigration.' Marina, 27, whose dress designer mother Emma is proud
of her new role, tells me: 'I met Kate through a friend. When I heard that one
of her staff was leaving, I applied for the job. She tried me out and then kept
me on. To be honest, I haven't a clue about politics, but I love what I am
doing.'

PITY the silver-haired octogenarian who had the temerity to ask Ringo Starr for
an autograph as he toured the Chelsea Flower Show with his wife, Barbara, and
George Harrison's widow, Olivia, yesterday.

The former Beatle had the 85-year-old in tears after he told her brusquely: 'I
don't sign autographs. Read that on my website.' But the site tells fans they
can buy memorabilia with his autograph, with prices starting at 625. Elsewhere,
actress Sienna Miller was also grumpy at being approached by fans. 'You've
provided a gross lack of security,' she told an official at the Cancer Research
Garden. Happily, when she arrived at Prince Charles's Highgrove garden stand,
the consoling presence of former valet Michael Fawcett was on hand to ensure she
left with a goodie bag stuffed with champagne and chocolates.

IT WAS a piece of advice she had dismissed for many years, but now Gurkha
campaigner Joanna Lumley admits she might have been wrong to ignore it. 'In an
early casting as a model, I was turned down as I had, and I quote, a tough,
masculine-looking jaw, my eye-line was sharp and my voice stern,' she says. 'I
was advised to go into politics: apparently, the only profession where my face
fitted. It's funny that now I'm fighting with politicians for a serious cause.
It's nice to think I've been able to reinvent my career. I have a knack for
getting people to listen. Maybe I should have heeded to that advice all those
years ago.'

FRANKIE HOWERD'S former boyfriend and manager has died, just days after I
revealed how he had 'married' their adopted son. Former waiter Dennis Heymer,
80, Howerd's partner for 41 years, died 'peacefully' in the arms of Chris Byrne
at their Somerset home.

Last week, I told how the two had tied the knot in a civil partnership, a move
that ensured the actor's estate would pass to Byrne. 'He died in my arms as I
said he would,' says Chris, a local councillor. 'I always assured him that he
would never go into a nursing home.'

PS

AMID all the tawdry revelations of MPs' expenses, the Earl of Dartmouth will
bring some much needed rigour -- if a touch of eccentricity -- to next month's
Euro elections. William Dartmouth, 59, is the grandson of romantic novelist
Barbara Cartland and son of Princess Diana's stepmother Raine, Countess Spencer.
The Old Etonian, who fought two Westminster elections as a Tory, is standing for
UKIP in the key South-West region. Although resolutely unmarried, Dartmouth has
a son with Belfastborn TV producer Claire Kavanagh.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron wants election to ditch worst offenders

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 164  words


DAVID Cameron yesterday stepped up his call for an immediate general election to
clean up Westminster as a poll last night gave the Tories an 11-point lead over
Labour.

The Tory leader, launching his party's campaign for the Euro elections on June
4, insisted a clear-out of MPs tarnished by the expenses scandal was badly
needed.

That included his own party. He called on Conservative associations to dump Tory
MPs damaged by sleaze.

Speaking in Rossendale in Lancashire, Mr Cameron said:

"Everything has changed in the last two weeks. The need for change is 10 times
more urgent than it was before and a general election is the only way of making
it happen."

An ICM poll put Tory support at 39 per cent, down one per cent from a month ago.
Labour and Lib Dems were level pegging on 28 per cent.

That would give the Tories a Parliamentary majority of 18.

In a backlash against the major parties, the vote share for the minor ones,
including UKIP and the Greens, was up three per cent at 14.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron's clean-up call

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Front: Sketch: Blundering numbly to oblivion, a piteous sight

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words


It was gruesome, horrible, pathetic and miserable. You had to watch it through
your fingers, with teeth clenched and stomach knotted. It wasn't even tragic, if
tragedy is the story of a great man brought down by his own weakness. Michael
Martin is a weak man about to be destroyed by his own weakness.

The Speaker resembled a boxer totally outfought, tottering numbly around the
ring, barely aware of what was happening, staggering into his opponent's fists,
somehow upright, but swaying. He is a dead man reeling. In any humane venue, the
referee would have stopped the fight. But he is the referee! And he's not
stopping anything!

Looking at the piteous sight, you feel you ought to be sorry for him. But it is
hard to feel sorry for anyone who has blundered into his situation and shows no
sign that he needs to blunder straight back out. He didn't even mention the
possibility of resignation. Instead, he intends to hold a top-level meeting. A
meeting! If this man were tackling the Great Fire of London he would announce a
commission on fire prevention measures, to report by the autumn. He simply
doesn't get it.

One MP after another stood up and told him to resign. To his credit, he did call
them - though of course if he had not the subsequent row would have blown him
away like a dandelion seed in a hurricane.

He did apologise, sort of. "To the extent that I have contributed to the
situation, I am profoundly sorry." It was, as everyone kept saying, a historic
day in parliament. Or at least a hysteric day.

Two MPs who have signed the motion calling on Martin to resign, Gordon Prentice
and Douglas Carswell, duly called on him to resign. They demanded a vote on
their motion. The Speaker took refuge in procedure. "It is not a substantive
motion," he said. "Oh yes it is!" shouted Prentice.

Carswell, who it must be said, does have the air of a prune-faced puritan, said
that the house should be allowed to choose a speaker "with the moral authority
to clean up Westminster". This breathtakingly rude remark drew a gasp of outrage
from some Labour members, but as gasps of outrage go, it was feeble and
lacklustre.

David Winnick, an aged Labour sage, asked the Speaker - pleaded with him - to
give some indication of when he would retire.

But Michael Martin was no more going to do that than drop his trousers and tango
on the table of the house. "You know that is not a subject for today," he said.
But it was, precisely and exactly, the only subject for the day.

David Heath, for the Lib Dems, got loud support when he said that the very
people "who got us into this position by resisting reform (who can he have
meant?) cannot possibly be the people to lead us out of it!"

The blows kept coming, thundering down on to Martin's unwigged head. Perhaps the
worst came from Sir Patrick Cormack, up there with Sir Peter Tapsell as grandest
of Tory grandees. "The condition of the House is now very like the condition of
the country during the Norway debate!" he said, drawing real - wurrgh - croaking
and rasping gasps. The Norway debate of 1940 led to Chamberlain's replacement by
Churchill, and there is not an MP who would fail to see the significance.

And from Sir Patrick!

"In the name of God, go!" was the phrase he was echoing. He might as well have
pulled the black cap on to his head.

The row about procedure continued, with the wretched Speaker frantically
consulting the clerks in front of him about whether he was obliged to summon up
his own tumbril.

The worst news came near the end, when the only real support came from Bob
Spink, a Tory turned Ukip, and largely detested by all sides. It was like a
beleaguered banker getting heartfelt support from Sir Fred Goodwin. The end must
be very near.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

National: MP's expenses: Political briefing: Tribal passions aroused

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 481 words


Until yesterday's statement from the Speaker, MPs could console themselves with
the thought that they were all in the same mess, all tarred with the same brush;
the greedy, the careless, and the pure alike. Michael Martin's statement changed
that. It polarised sentiment along tribal lines.

Ministers and senior MPs on both sides are resigned to seeing errant colleagues
deselected by local activists as public anger against being let down by their
elected representatives (and the bankers) manifests itself. The most unlikely
MPs are now seriously discussing using the crisis to leverage sweeping reform.
"Never let a good crisis go to waste," as President Obama's consigliere, Rahm
Emanuel, likes to put it.

Martin's belated plea was for a bipartisan approach to expenses reform,
something Gordon Brown and David Cameron privately insist they struggled to
achieve. At the same time they seek tactical advantage, in what is now an
election year. So when Douglas Carswell, the Tory backbencher leading the
campaign to oust Martin, challenged his refusal to announce his own
sooner-or-later retirement, he did so in abusive terms. Labour MPs muttered
resentfully. But opposition MPs did the same when Sir Stuart Bell, the Labour
loyalist who sits with Mr Speaker on the ruling Commons commission, asserted "a
majority of this House" would back his stance.

In truth, no one knows. Most backbenchers who showed their hands yesterday - and
dashed out to show them again on TV - are members of the all-party Awkward
Squad, troublemakers whom more conformist colleagues view with mixed feelings.
It is the more discreet MPs who will decide the Speaker's fate.

The anger is palpable, not confined to opposition MPs. But Bob Spink, the
Tory-turned-Ukip Essex maverick, was not alone in complaining that Martin, for
all his evident inability to rise to the occasion, is being made a scapegoat for
their collective failure to achieve a credible consensus over their pay and
expenses for 30 years or more.

They know some MPs abused a system open to abuse, and the fees office which
polices it has actively encouraged claims maximisation, reasons for which remain
unclear. If Martin should have called time on it, so should many others.

"Martin's doomed," critics predict. "Six out of seven colleagues I lunched with
would vote against him," says one Tory. "He'll not survive this week," predicts
Labour's Gordon Prentice. But by mid-evening fewer than 20 MPs had signed the
Carswell motion of no confidence. Neither Cameron nor Nick Clegg had promised to
use their power to get it debated - though Clegg is thinking about it.

Martin supporters claim to relish a showdown, confident they will win. Some even
see the entire drama as part of a concerted Conservative campaign to provoke the
election which Cameron demanded again yesterday. Tribal passions are aroused
just when voters don't want tribal politics.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

National: MP's expenses: ICM poll: Leadership: All parties damaged - but Cameron
outperforms PM

BYLINE: Will Woodward

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words


A sizeable majority of voters say Gordon Brown has handled the crisis over MPs'
expenses badly and most believe David Cameron has dealt with it well, a
Guardian/ICM poll reveals today.

The results of the poll, conducted over the weekend after the Daily Telegraph
had featured stories on MPs of all three main parties, underline the view at
Westminster that the Conservative leader's response to the 12-day furore has
been more fleet-footed and direct than Brown's. But the results also suggest
that voters believe all parties have been damaged and the issue is not a general
election decider.

More than two-thirds of those surveyed, 69%, say the prime minister has handled
the controversy badly, including half of the Labour voters. But 55% credit
Cameron with handling it well. Opinion on Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, is evenly split: 37% say he has handled it well and 39% badly.

When asked who they would vote for in a general election, the Conservatives are
down one percentage point to 39%, Labour down two to 28%, and the Liberal
Democrats are up one point to 20%. Labour's vote share has fallen less
dramatically than might have been expected and the Tories and Lib Dems have
failed to capitalise on the damage caused to the government by the row.

The share going to minor parties is up three points to 14% overall, split mainly
between Ukip and the BNP on 4% each, the Greens on 2%, and nationalist parties
on 3%.

Labour's showing is its worst in a Guardian/ICM poll since July 2008, and it is
also the Tories' worst performance in the poll this year. But the findings may
demonstrate that most voters are still more concerned about the economy and
other issues, and regard the crisis besetting Westminster as a second-order
issue.

Some 63% of those surveyed thought all political parties had been damaged by the
expenses scandal, but 34% thought Labour was most damaged; 17% thought the
Conservative party had been damaged the most, and 6% nominated the Lib Dems. The
percentages on this question added up to more than 100% because voters were
allowed to nominate two parties as well as "all of them".

Voters are resistant to raising MPs' salary of £64,766 to accompany a
restriction in the expenses they are allowed to claim. Seventy-five per cent of
voters were against increasing the basic salary, against 22% in favour. Upper
and middle-class voters, and Conservatives, are slightly more likely to support
wage rises for MPs.

* ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,002 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
15 and 17 May 2009. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. Percentages may not add to 100
because of rounding. ICM is a member of the British Polling Council and abides
by its rules. Further information at www.icmresearch.co.uk

Gordon Brown

Handled well 23%

Handled badly 69%

David Cameron

Handled well 55%

Handled badly 35%

Nick Clegg

Handled well 37%

Handled badly 39%

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

National: MP's expenses: Political briefing: Tribal passions aroused

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words


Until yesterday's statement from the Speaker, MPs could console themselves with
the thought that they were all in the same mess: the greedy, the careless and
the pure. Michael Martin's statement changed that. It polarised sentiment along
tribal lines.

Ministers and senior MPs on both sides are resigned to seeing errant colleagues
deselected by local activists as public anger against being let down by their
elected representatives (and the bankers) manifests itself. The most unlikely
MPs are now seriously discussing using the crisis to leverage sweeping reform.
"Never let a good crisis go to waste," as President Obama's consigliere, Rahm
Emanuel, likes to put it.

Martin's belated plea was for a bipartisan approach to expenses reform,
something Gordon Brown and David Cameron privately insist they struggled to
achieve. At the same time they seek tactical advantage in an election year.

So when Douglas Carswell, the Tory backbencher leading the campaign to oust
Martin, challenged his refusal to announce his sooner-or-later retirement, he
did so in abusive terms. Labour MPs muttered resentfully. But opposition MPs did
the same when Sir Stuart Bell, the Labour loyalist who sits with Mr Speaker on
the ruling Commons commission, asserted "a majority of this House" would back
his stance. In truth, no one knows. Most backbenchers who showed their hands
yesterday are members of the all-party Awkward Squad, troublemakers whom more
conformist colleagues view with mixed feelings. It is the more discreet MPs who
will decide Martin's fate.

The anger is palpable, not confined to opposition MPs. But Bob Spink, the
Tory-turned-Ukip Essex maverick, was not alone in complaining that Martin, for
all his evident inability to rise to the occasion, is being made a scapegoat for
their collective failure to achieve a credible consensus over their pay and
expenses for 30 years or more.

They know some MPs abused a system open to abuse, and the fees office which
polices it has encouraged claims maximisation, for reasons which remain unclear.
If Martin should have called time on it, so should many others.

"Martin's doomed," critics predict. "Six out of seven colleagues I lunched with
would vote against him," said one Tory. "He'll not survive this week," predicted
Labour's Gordon Prentice. But by mid-evening fewer than 20 MPs had signed the
Carswell motion of no confidence. Neither Cameron nor Nick Clegg had promised to
use their power to get it debated - though Clegg is thinking about it.

Martin supporters claim to relish a showdown, confident they will win. Some even
see the entire drama as part of a concerted Conservative campaign to provoke the
election which Cameron demanded again yesterday. Tribal passions are aroused
just when voters don't want tribal politics.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Rise of Europe's extreme politics;
The economic gloom and public disillusionment with incumbent governments has
Euro MPs worried that voters will turn to the fringes at the polling booth next
month. Vanessa Mock reports

BYLINE: Vanessa Mock

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1307 words


From Stockholm to Sardinia, Waterford to Warsaw, a noisy and eclectic band of
nationalists and eurosceptics are on the campaign trail hoping to unseat their
mainstream rivals in the European Parliament.

Dutch anti-Islamists, Hungarian nationalists, Italian separatists and an
Irish-backed anti-Lisbon Treaty party are all clamouring for seats when Europe
goes to the polls between 4 and 7 June. And a combination of dismally low voter
turnout and the economic downturn looks set to play into their hands in the
vote. Job losses and the grimmest economic forecasts in decades have created the
ideal conditions for single-issue candidates and marginal groups hostile to the
EU to win seats in the Strasbourg assembly.

"It's a worrying trend" says Urszula Gacek, a centre-right Polish MEP whose
country is itself home to several arch-conservative Catholic parties and headed
by a eurosceptic President, Lech Kaczynski. "The extremists are better at
mobilising their voters, by playing on citizens' fears and talking up the need
for protectionism and the closing of borders."

Many, like Ms Gacek, view the possible arrivals from the extreme fringes of the
political landscape with a trepidation bordering on fear, fretting that their
new fellow parliamentarians will attempt to hobble the workings and powers of
the institution to which they are seeking election. "It is bad enough having our
sessions broken up by anti-EU ranters from the United Kingdom Independence Party
[Ukip], but what if these people actually get power now?," says one Portuguese
deputy.

During their last pre-election session of parliament in Strasbourg, chatter
about the looming changes to the balance of power dominated the corridors. Over
glasses of wine in the parliament's bars, politicians pondered about possible
alliances to disrupt the traditional dominance of the centre-right and the
socialists. One prospect is the establishment of a new eurosceptic faction,
thanks to the British Conservatives' much criticised plan to abandon the
powerful centre-right, umbrella grouping European People's Party. The
Conservatives are now reportedly seeking to team up with Irish businessman
Declan Ganley's Libertas, a pan-European movement set up specifically with the
ambition of derailing the Lisbon Treaty.

More worrying is the threat from the far-right, which could well include the
British National Party (BNP). The BNP is poised to win at least one seat and has
been seeking "greater co-operation between European nationalists". Last month,
Nazi salutes greeted the BNP's deputy leader, Simon Darby, at a far-right rally
in Milan, organised by Roberto Fiore, an Italian MEP and head of Forza Nuova,
which seeks the expulsion of about 150,000 Roma gypsies from Italy.

"It's really very ironic that these groups have decided to go European, given
that they are all basically campaigning against the EU," says the Green Party's
co-president Monica Frassoni. But she points out that these parties are so
rooted in domestic politics that Romanian and Hungarian groups campaigning on an
anti-Roma gypsy ticket are unlikely to get into bed with, for instance, the
Vlaams Belang, which wants independence for Flanders. "I can't see how they will
organise themselves into a credible new faction given the complete disarray and
isolation they've faced before."

A new party of far-right groups, Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty, collapsed
spectacularly just weeks after its creation in 2007, when Italy's Alessandra
Mussolini hurled verbal abuse at her "scum" Romanian colleagues, and Poles were
left fuming over Austrian mutterings about the need to change the Polish-German
border - a far cry from the cosy European spirit that has seen even British
members grow used to kissing their foreign colleagues on both cheeks.

"Inevitably it all dissolved into a shambles and now they will never make up the
numbers they need to create a new political entity," says Andrew Duff, a British
Liberal MEP, referring to recent changes to triple to 28 the minimum number of
politicians needed to form a viable political grouping. Only a group can wield
power at the parliament, he says, as they can chair committees and sway voting.
"Independent members count for nothing, which is why the risk posed by these
extremists is in reality so insignificant."

At the other end of the scale, the parliament risks being seen as a depository
for outlandish wannabes or failed has-beens. France's fallen political star, the
former justice minister Rachida Dati (UMP), can at least boast cabinet
experience, unlike the string of female soap-opera starlets and models Silvio
Berlusconi planned to field for his centre-right party, provoking his wife to
dismiss them as "shameless rubbish" and file for divorce.

In Britain, the former Apprentice star and Met Office worker Katie Hopkins
announced she will stand as the sole candidate for the Katie Olivia Hopkins
Independent Party in Exeter. "It makes us look like a bunch of amateurs," said
one Dutch MEP.

Although the parliament has massively increased its powers since it became a
democratically elected chamber three decades ago and now wields its zeal for
regulation wherever it can, the world's only trans-national parliament still
leaves most Europeans cold: two-thirds say they know little or next to nothing
about what it does and only one-third plan to vote next month, one poll found.
"Everyone is worrying about the economic crisis, but people don't necessarily
believe that the parliament can address it," says Ms Frassoni.

Its 785 MEPs like to blame the media for the plummeting public interest,
accusing it of failing to report on its achievements in swaying legislation on
issues as diverse as working hours for employees, EU environmental targets and
mobile phone roaming charges. Instead, the assembly's reputation is
all-too-frequently dogged by scandals over MEP allowances and the extravagant
idiosyncrasy of being the only parliament in the world with two houses.

MEPs and armies of assistants and translators leave the gleaming steel-and-glass
hemisphere in Brussels once a month to travel several hundred miles to
Strasbourg for a four-day plenary session in a time-honoured practice branded
the "travelling circus', "Euro gravy train" or any variation of the two.

The monthly move to France of thousands of staff wheeling boxes of documents as
well as the upkeep of a state-of-the-art premises which stands mostly empty
costs European taxpayers about Euro 200m a year. Even if Strasbourg's
restaurants buzz with the nightly patronage of the MEPs during sessions, many
elected representatives don't even bother to show up. "We had around 150
colleagues missing during the last session, which is completely unacceptable and
dangerous as it skews voting results." says the British Liberal MEP Andrew Duff.
"Some Mediterraneans hardly ever show their face".

Others seethe with frustration at the parliament's reluctance to self-reform.
"In the past, Strasbourg was a symbol of Franco-German reconciliation. Now it's
a symbol of waste," says Alexander Alvaro, a German Liberal MEP who wants to
scrap the Strasbourg location - a historic arrangement enshrined in EU treaties.
However, there are signs the European Parliament is getting the message. New
rules on allowances will curb some of the excess. And if Ireland passes the
Lisbon Treaty in a second referendum in the autumn, Strasbourg will be conferred
with a greater say over justice, immigration and foreign policy, rather than
wasting its breath on passing resolutions on matters beyond its remit.

Ironically, the europhobes and extremists may find themselves wielding real
power rather than just disrupting hand-wringing debates on the situation in
Burma or the disappearance of the brown bear.

"Our lack of interest in the European elections is a huge political failure"

Mary Dejevsky, page 33

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

That's life. Esther won't clean up Westminster;
You can try riots, fresh elections or independent candidates. But the real
problem is a lack of public interest in politics

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1096 words


The language and imagery of political upheaval are psychologically interesting.
The bad politicians must be "purged" and Parliament must be "cleansed", as
though what was required was a political form of colonic irrigation. There is a
lavish pictorial use of the idea of our leaders being smeared by, drowned in or
shovelling ordure. We want to expel the stinky stuff and have it replaced by the
nice, empty bowel.

Do I need to point out that our own bowels are pretty full? The majority of MPs
discovered to be doing unlovely things with expenses (themselves, so far, a
minority of parliamentarians) are only guilty of what we would be guilty of if
someone gave us a chance. Greedy Members didn't make us rack up credit card
bills and take out 125 per cent mortgages. Even so it is grimly amusing to see
panicking honourables inviting the Speaker to play Strafford to their Charles I,
and volunteer for execution pour sauver eux-mêmes.

Well it doesn't look like he is going to agree to the block, but a much bigger
question is whether this moment marks an important changing point in British
politics.

Some argue that it does, that nothing will be the same again. The British
people, it is suggested, now demand an almost revolutionary alteration in how
political life is conducted. There could even be riots. Or a break-up of the
party system. Or a massive growth in fourth-party voting and support for
independent candidates. Or all of these.

Riots have a patchy record in this country. Rioting only seems to be relevant
when it works in the direction in which history is already travelling. True, the
occasional old lady on the evening news has declared her desire to shoot all our
politicians, but my guess is that even the now-famous Question Time barracking
of Beckett, Campbell and May will have seemed slightly ill-mannered to many of
our fastidious compatriots. We have elections to decide such things.

So what about an electoral enema - a gallon of phospho-soda poured into the
alimentary tract of the British body politic? At the weekend it was suggested
that polls presaged a massive boost in fourth-party support for UKIP, the BNP
and the Greens. Detailed examination of the results, however, showed something
different. In the forthcoming Euro elections 27 per cent of respondents
suggested that they might change their votes from one of the big three parties
to a small party. Of this quarter, 28 per cent favoured UKIP, 16 per cent the
BNP and 15 per cent the Green Party.

If you do your sums this means that UKIP's vote could rise 7 per cent on its
current national poll standing, and the other two could receive a boost of 4 per
cent. Need I tell you that this is actually fewer votes than they achieved in
the last Euro elections? It is unfair that the Greens get bracketed with the
tedious obsessives of UKIP and the fading Nazi tattoos of the BNP. But the truth
is that the stances of these parties do not attract large coalitions of voters.

So for yet other people the possibility of quiet revolution resides in getting a
large number of Martin Bell-type independents to stand against expense-tarnished
MPs. Such independents - emboldened to stand by the real possibility of busting
the party system - might, one would think, provide an infusion of new blood to
replace those politicians we may now lose as result of the assault on politics.
There has even been a rumour of Esther Rantzen at Luton South.

That this may not be a panacea is demonstrated by the election for Hackney South
in 1918 of one of the most corrupt MPs in 20th-century history, the fraudster
Horatio Bottomley. Despite having already faced his first fraud trial, Bottomley
received more than 80 per cent of the vote. Even incorruptibles like Esther
might find it hard when journos start poring over bought copies of BBC expenses
going back three decades.

But the real problem for independents is their independence. Mr Bell found
himself expected to scrutinise and to vote on hugely complex legislation,
without the benefit of party advice and research. When instead he chose to
concentrate on constituency work, he was criticised for a poor voting record.
For independents it is either whip or whim.

When I met the independent candidate for Wyre Forest, Dr Richard Taylor, before
the 2001 election, there were 19 local councillors who had been elected on his
local NHS campaign ticket. This party, still in existence, promises
consultation, a "bottom-up" approach and a freedom from "party dogma". But eight
years on, local turnout remains the same as it was before, and the Taylor group
has lost nearly half its councillors.

The independent MP for Blaenau Gwent also offered a "political revolution" on
his election in 2006. He set up People's Voice as a party, with much the same
prospectus as the Wyre Forest independents - all love, listening and localism.
"This political tidal wave cannot stop here," says the People's Voice website,
now largely not updated for two years. More cobwebsite really.

There's a reason why this arc of independence seems inevitable. Politics, local
or national, requires hard work, high commitment and good organisation. Opposing
stuff in detail is difficult enough; actually running things is much worse. And
when you do... For a few years I was a parent governor for a state primary
school.

Every summer we had to organise an AGM for parents. We wrote reports, handed out
leaflets, thought up attractive issues to discuss, and out of 650 possible sets
of parents and carers we never managed to get more than 30 people to turn up.
These were the same 30 who did everything else as well. Only if something went
wrong did the cry go up for consultation.

In Britain disillusion with politics is usually a pre-emptive excuse. If "they"
are all as bad as each other, then "we" have no responsibility to get involved,
to understand the issues or join parties. Worse, we create a way of having our
cake and eating it. We tell pollsters that we favour capital punishment, but
without the least expectation - or desire - that Parliament will do as we say.
That way we can moan about how out of touch they are, without having ourselves
to shoulder the guilt of judicial murder. And so it is on so many subjects.

It is said, often, that our problem is greed. I disagree. The missing link here
is civic engagement and I am beginning to think that the answer to the need for
renewal is forcible and massive decentralisation of power. The voter's answer,
however, will instead be victory for David Cameron in 2010. Let him sort it all
out - till it's time for another flush.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The problem for independents such as Martin Bell is their lack of help

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Labour fears mass apathy at European poll

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 200 words


Labour fears voters in Scotland will abstain in their masses at next month's
European Parliament elections as a result of the expenses scandal.

David Martin, an MEP since 1984 and virtually certain to be re-elected on June
4, gave the warning yesterday when Labour launched its European election
campaign in Glasgow.

Mr Martin believes that while voters in England may turn to the UK Independence
Party and the British National Party, neither party has a sufficiently high
profile in Scotland to attract votes. "My fear is that we are going to get a lot
of people who will just stay at home and that we will get a lower turnout than
normal," he said.

The turnout in Scotland at the last European Parliament elections was just under
31 per cent. In 1999, it was 24.7 per cent.

Labour is putting jobs and the economy at the heart of its campaign and its
strategy in Scotland will be to try to turn the election into a fight between it
and the Conservatives as the two parties with wider influence in Brussels while
portraying the SNP as isolated. In 2005, seven MEPs were elected in Scotland -
two Labour, two SNP, two Tories and one Lib Dem - but the number of Scottish
seats has since been reduced to six.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

NO WONDER OUR MPS TURNED TO CRIME. THEY GAVE UP THEIR REAL JOB LONG AGO

LENGTH: 2444 words


THE MELANIE PHILLIPS COLUMN

AS IS becoming more obvious by the day, the scale of public fury aroused by the
parliamentary expenses scandal exceeds anything in living memory.

MPs have spent a torrid weekend facing -- or fleeing -- the wrath of their
constituents. Some even cancelled surgeries and other engagements and hid behind
their moats and their mounds of ill-gotten manure.

Others may have even tried the novel experience of going to the shops to buy dog
food, bath plugs and sparkly toilet seats out of their own pockets for the very
first time.

Today the Commons Speaker, Michael Martin, faces a cross-party no-confidence
motion. The speedy ejection of this bullying shop steward of sleaze is essential
for the restoration of parliamentary health. His disgraceful tenure of this
ancient post, trying to thwart proper scrutiny and transparency of MPs'
allowances, has done much to drag Parliament into the mire where it now wallows.
But his removal would be only a first step. Even the necessary root-and-branch
reform of the expenses system would do little to remedy the far more profound
alienation from politicians which now stands so graphically exposed. Catharsis
This great eruption of public rage is surely a moment of catharsis. The lid has
finally blown clean off a boiling pot of disgust with an entire political class
which seems to inhabit a totally different universe from the voters, divorced
from their concerns and values and from the realities of everyday life. If the
opinion polls are to be believed, the result is likely to be a hugely increased
vote for the fringe parties at the upcoming European Parliament elections. This
would be, however, more than a little perverse. For as the recipients of a
protest vote against the corruption of democracy, these fringe parties leave
much to be desired. For all its slick repackaging, the BNP remains an odiously
racist party, with its leader blurting out the fact that he doesn't regard
British citizens of Asian descent -- indeed, any ethnic minority -- as British
at all. He has a criminal conviction for a racist offence, and BNP members are
regularly embroiled in ugly or even criminal displays and activities.

As for UKIP, that itself is tainted by corruption, with one of its former MEPs
jailed for benefit fraud and another kicked out of the party after being charged
with money-laundering.

So neither party is an attractive proposition -- indeed, it will be deeply
dismaying if the BNP in particular wins any seats at all.

Nevertheless, both stand to gain because they articulate key issues of
overriding importance to the public -- such as mass immigration and membership
of the EU -- but which the mainstream parties obdurately fail to address. These
issues are fundamental to the very identity of the country and its ability to
govern itself at all. Indeed, their neglect can even be said to have contributed
in no small measure to the expenses scandal.

This is because parliamentary democracy itself has become steadily emptied of
meaning and purpose, leaving a vacuum which has been filled by corruption.

For more than three decades, Parliament has become increasingly powerless. In
recent years, this was the result of the Labour Government deliberately
outsourcing its powers -- to the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembliy; to
quangos, management consultancies or unelected advisers; or to the courts
through human rights law.

But above all, the British Parliament has progressively surrendered its powers
of national self-government to Europe, which has reduced the cradle of democracy
to the status of little more than Westminster Regional Council.

This whole process was summed up in 1998 by Peter Mandelson, who observed with
menacing perspicacity that 'the era of pure representative government is coming
slowly to an end'.

And now we can see the baleful results. For the resulting loss of purpose has
made MPs much more likely to be petty and venal -- not least because, when they
stare in impotent envy at the European Union to which they have lost so much
power, all they see is one giant gravy train.

Paradoxically, the diminution of Britain's place in the world has gone hand in
hand with an increase in the power of the State over its own citizens.
Determined to ram through its agenda for a new world order of which the EU is an
important part, the Labour Government increasingly concentrated power in itself
while it steadily took it away from Parliament.

So there was more and more secondary legislation upon which MPs don't have to
vote, less and less time to debate important measures, and ever-tighter control
by the party whips over MPs whose only career was in politics and who were,
thereganged-fore, totally dependent for their livelihood upon political
patronage.

The outcome was an empty Commons chamber as MPs found they had less and less to
do -- and employed their creativity instead in filling in their expenses forms.

Meanwhile, any objection to the utopian dream of a brotherhood of man that was
being created in our multicultural society was ruthlessly suppressed through
demonisation and character assassination of those who objected.

So public anxiety about the dramatic way the nation was changing under the
impact of mass immigration was not only systematically ignored by politicians of
all parties, but anyone who raised such concerns found themselves smeared as
racists. Similarly, as politicians of all parties up to agree that there was no
alternative to Britain being a member of the EU, anyone who queried this was
denounced as a xenophobe and vilified as a swivel-eyed lunatic.

No wonder the BNP and UKIP are poised to make gains, for they seem to be
articulating voices the political class ignores. The irony is that the Green
Party is also set to prosper -- even though, far from speaking up for the silent
majority, it seeks to impose the Establishment's fanatical dogma of man-made
global warming.

The real crisis we face, and which has now come to such a spectacular head with
the expenses scandal, is, therefore, nothing less than a crisis of democratic
governance. So tackling it properly won't be easy.

It won't be enough to sack Speaker Martin, who must not be used as the fall-guy
for a failure that is infinitely wider and deeper in scope.

It won't be enough for MPs to pay back the money which, in a mass outbreak of
collective amnesia over their already paid-off mortgages and myopia over where
their families were actually living, many of them apparently never noticed they
had claimed and that it was steadily filling up their bank accounts.

It won't even be enough for a number of them to face criminal prosecution.

To cleanse the Augean stables, constituency parties should now be holding their
members to account for every penny they have claimed. Where they have ripped
off, cheated or swindled the taxpayer they should be de-selected, and a General
Election should be held forthwith.

The issue for that election should not merely be the integrity of political
life. It should be about the need to uphold, repair and defend the historic
identity and values of this nation and its ability to govern itself in
accordance with those precepts.

Only then would the core issue behind the wholesale collapse of parliamentary
honour be addressed -- and the ground taken from beneath the feet of the fringe
parties.

But where is the mainstream statesman who will make such a pitch?

THE DAY DAVID NIVEN PUT A GUN TO HIS HEAD -- AND PULLED THE TRIGGER

BY MARCUS DUNK

HE WAS a dashing and debonair leading man; a Hollywood legend whose charm was
effortless and whose life seemed gilded and glamorous. As one of the leading
lights of Hollywood's golden age, British actor David Niven was renowned for
never taking himself or his fame too seriously.

Yet beneath this light-hearted exterior, it now emerges, lay another David Niven
-- one tormented by depression, who felt haunted his whole life by the taint of
illegitimacy and the sexual abuse he had suffered as a child.

So severe was his despair that he confessed shortly before his death in 1983
that he had once attempted to shoot himself, and was prevented only when the gun
failed to go off.

According to Michael Munn, Niven's friend and biographer who conducted a series
of interviews with Niven as he was dying of motor neurone disease, and who has
written a new biography detailing these revelations, the incident took place in
1946 shortly after the tragic death of Niven's first wife, Primula Rollo.
According to Munn, Niven told him that after her death he 'lost all sense of
reason'.

'I decided to blow my brains out,' Niven admitted just months before he died. 'I
took a gun and put the barrel in my mouth and, with barely a thought for my
children, which was unforgivable, I pulled the trigger. And the bloody thing
didn't fire. I was strangely calm about it all up till then, and then I began to
shake.

'I didn't know why the gun didn't fire.

I knew about guns, but I couldn't think why it hadn't fired, and I think I may
have actually thought that this might be God telling me to carry on living for
the sake of my children. I even thought it might be Primmie [his late wife]
giving me a message and that she had made the gun fail.'

This darker side was one that Niven worked hard to keep hidden from his adoring
public. Even in his best- selling and critically acclaimed 1971 autobiography,
The Moon's A Balloon, not a hint of shadow was allowed to darken the chirpy and
breezy tone with which Niven discussed his life.

'Keep the circus going inside you,' he once advised the young actor Robert
Wagner. 'Don't take anything too seriously. It'll all work out in the end.'

Initially, though, there was little of the circus in Niven's life.

Born James David Graham Niven in London in 1910, the future actor was the
youngest of four children whose father, William Niven, was a wealthy landowner
killed in action at Gallipoli in 1915.

SHORTLY afterwards, his widow, Henrietta Niven, married the Conservative
politician Sir Thomas Comyn-Platt, with whom she had been conducting a long
affair. Sir Thomas was actually David's real father, although he refused to
acknowledge him publicly for fear of a scandal.

'My father was not my father,' Niven admitted before his death. 'When it sank in
that [Sir Thomas] was actually my father, I came to dislike and resent him even
more because I felt lost and confused. My "real" father was taken from me in the
war, and now I had a stepfather who couldn't even admit I was his.'

Troubled and uncontrollable, his parents sent him to a private boarding school
in Worthing to 'instil discipline' in him. He admitted to Munn it was 'one of
the worst experiences of my life', mainly due to the 'sadistic' sexual abuse he
suffered from older boys.

He went from school to school and even shoplifted, but was accepted into
Sandhurst military college where he developed the charm and polished manners
which were to serve him well.

Commissioned in 1930, he was posted to Malta but quickly became bored with army
life. The final straw came during a boring lecture given by a general which
prevented him from meeting a woman for dinner. At the end of the lecture the
general asked if there were any questions. 'Could you tell me the time, sir?'
asked Niven. 'I have a train to catch.'

Placed under arrest for insubordination, Niven shared a bottle of whisky with
the officer guarding him and then escaped through the window and headed for
America, resigning his commission by telegram while crossing the Atlantic.

Over the following year he tried his hand at numerous occupations, including
whiskey salesman, rodeo promoter and rifle cleaner, before deciding to try
Hollywood.

With his military bearing and natural charm, he was soon landing bit parts and,
after meeting film producer Samuel Goldwyn, he landed starring roles in films
such as The Charge Of The Light Brigade, The Prisoner Of Zenda, and, in 1939,
Wuthering Heights playing opposite Laurence Olivier.

Niven relished Hollywood and the access to beautiful women it afforded him.

He quickly became close friends with Errol Flynn, two inveterate womanisers even
sharing a house which they called 'Cirrhosis-by-the-Sea'. The friendship broke
up only after Flynn, who admitted to sleeping with 'anything that moves', made a
pass at Niven.

The outbreak of war put an end to this easygoing life. Niven returned to Britain
to enlist, eventually joining a secret Commando unit which took part in
coastline raids.

He was involved with the D-Day landings and helped liberate a number of
concentration camps. When speaking to Munn at the end of his life, he admitted
that the memory of the concentration camps regularly returned to him.

'Even now,' he said, 'I sometimes fancy that I can catch a hint of that stench
in my nostrils, and my stomach heaves. I feel like it will never leave me.' To
the outside world, however, he was still the suave movie star. He had married
Primmie Rollo, the beautiful daughter of a British lawyer, with whom he returned
to Hollywood where his career took off.

At a 1946 party hosted by actor Tyrone Power, the guests played hide and seek.
Thinking that the cellar door was a cupboard where she could hide, Primmie
opened it and stepped through into the darkness. She fell 20ft, fractured her
skull and died later in hospital. Niven was inconsolable and shortly after made
his suicide attempt.

Although he failed, his personal life soon spiralled out of control. 'I had some
bizarre illness,' he admitted. 'I had to have sex. It was the only way of
deadening the pain. That and getting drunk, but I preferred sex. I paid for it
when I had to.

'Often, I didn't have to because there were plenty of starlets willing to sleep
with anyone who might be able to help them.'

ONE SUCH conquest had her own glittering career ahead of her. 'I only remember
waking up in the morning in a friend's bedroom with the worst hangover, and
lying next to me was this starlet called Marilyn Monroe.'

Work provided another outlet, and Niven took pride in his professionalism, even
when he was privately despairing. 'In 40 years I've never been late,' he once
said. 'They pay me enough -- so the least I can do is arrive sober, be on time
and know the jokes.'

His wartime experiences had taught him how to show grace under fire, and for the
rest of his life, during his unhappy second marriage to Swedish model Hjordis
Paulina Tersmeden and through his struggles during his final debilitating
illness, he maintained his easygoing charm.

'I see my purpose in life as making the world a happier place to be in,' he once
said. It is only now that we are discovering just how much David Niven kept
hidden in order to achieve this end.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

ONE LAST SOIREE FOR SIR VICTOR

LENGTH: 1128 words


RICHARD KAY

YOU CAN always rely on the bankers, however big the catastrophe they have
presided over, not to leave the stage without one last flourish. With former
Royal Bank of Scotland chief Sir Fred 'the Shred' Goodwin, it was his 617
million pension pot, despite overseeing 624 billion in losses.

For Sir Victor Blank, the hapless City grandee, who is to step down as chairman
of the beleaguered Lloyds Banking Group, it will be hosting tonight's gala
evening at the Chelsea Flower Show, where he has lavished a six-figure sum
sponsoring the soiree.

Indeed, for the banks, the appetite for the party season seems to be
undiminished.

In Cannes for the film festival, both Coutts, the Queen's bankers and a
subsidiary of RBS, and Barclays were holding parties on yachts in the harbour.

A year ago, Lloyds TSB splashed out 6400,000 on the flower show, which included
6100,000 on its own show garden.

This time, perhaps a consequence of its disastrous merger with crisis-hit HBOS,
the sponsorship has been less and the garden display -- now in the main marquee
-- smaller.

It is Sir Victor's favourite social gathering. Usually, there is an impressive
guest list.

Last year, Blank rubbed shoulders with Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, M&S
chief Sir Stuart Rose, Tesco director Lucy Neville-Rolfe, plus bigwigs at
Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse, as well as Sir John Major and
Lady Thatcher.

At star-starved Cannes, meanwhile, passers-by at the marina were surprised by
the raucous bash spilling over from a gin palace hired by Barclays at the
weekend, with some 200 partygoers enjoying canapes and champagne.

Moored nearby was another sleek yacht, the Fairbird, which Coutts had hired for
their annual shindig. But this was a more muted affair for only 60 guests, with
the bank shaving costs by serving local wine instead of champagne.

According to Coutts, the event cost 'under 630,000' and they halved the expense
by holding the bash jointly with accountancy firm Mazars.

Among their guests was actor Danny Dyer and the production executives of his
latest film.

THE Queen would be quite entitled to think less than entirely positively about
Commons Speaker Michael 'Gorbals Mick' Martin. On the morning after his election
as Speaker, nine years ago, Martin was asked if he was an ardent royalist.

His less than enthusiastic reply -- in which he said he was certainly not
'ardent' -- left many in the room that day with the impression that he was a
closet Republican.

So who has now had a right royal comeuppance?

LOVE DOESN'T CROSS ALL BOUNDARIES

HEALTHY bank balances are not the only unfortunate victims of the credit crunch.
Love lives have been devastated, too. Sadly, one casualty is the fiveyear
romance of Tory hopeful Annunziata Rees-Mogg (right) and her management
consultant boyfriend Matthew Glanville. Annunziata, 30 -- the daughter of former
Times editor Lord Rees-Mogg and parliamentary candidate for Somerton and Frome
-- parted from Matthewafter the former Territorial Army officer decided to take
a job in Baghdad. 'Matthew unfortunately got made redundant and then got himself
another job advising on the regeneration of Iraq,' says former City trader
Annunziata. 'Obviously, it was a terrific opportunity for him which he couldn't
turn down, but you can't really commute from Baghdad, can you?' The couple met
when they were working for Eurosceptic politicians -- she for Bill Cash, and he
for the manure-loving David Heathcoat-Amory. Annunziata tells me she has no new
beau in her life. 'I don't think Matthew has, either -- there aren't many women
in Baghdad's green zone.' However, her new single status means she will have no
distractions from her determination to win one of David Cameron's target seats
at the next election.

TALULAH'S SCHOOL REUNION

TWO years ago it transformed a lineup of unknown female starlets, including
Talulah Riley (pictured), Gemma Arterton and Tamsin Egerton, from newcomers into
the hottest new names in British cinema.

Now the St Trinian's brand is hoping to repeat its success, with plans for
another remake. Director Barnaby Thomas is said to be keen to reassemble the
cast which also included model Lily Cole, Colin Firth, Rupert Everett and
foul-mouthed comedian Russell Brand.

Among those delighted by the news is socialite photographer Amanda Eliasch,
whose grandfather, British film maker Sidney Gilliat, created the original --
The Belles Of St Trinian's. 'I'm very excited,' Amanda, former wife of sporting
goods tycoon Johan Eliasch, tells me at a Cannes party. 'It's funny, as the last
thing my grandfather would have wanted to be remembered for St Trinian's. But I
am proud of the films. 'They are a bit trashier than they used to be, but then
we live in trashier times. The new writers cannot write as my grandfather did,
as much of the comedy in the original films came from our family.'

UKIP NAMES ITS PRICE

UKIP leader Nigel Farage has registered the name of rival political party
Libertas with the Electoral Commission. It effectively prevents Libertas from
fighting the European elections next month under its own name, instead having to
use the less than snappy Pro-Democracy Libertas EU.

Says South of England Libertas candidate Chloe Woodhead: 'Incredibly, they
offered to sell us back our own name for 610,000. It's not just underhand, it's
pathetic.' Today, Libertas, a pan-European party, will file a complaint with the
Commission -- sending a copy to the Metropolitan Police. UKIP says it took the
action because it feared Libertas 'would masquerade as a Euro-sceptic party when
its true agenda is that they want a bigger EU.'

ROBBED of the usual A-class celebrities, Cannes groupies have been diverted by
the appearance of French president Nicolas Sarkozy's hard-partying son Jean.
Handsome Jean rubbed shoulders with Hollywood types watching evergreen Blondie
star Debbie Harry perform at a club on the Croisette. Thrilled U.S. actor Ryan
Phillippe -- ex-husband of Reese Witherspoon -- announced: 'Hey, it's the
president's son.' The two settled into a night of drinking that lasted until
4am.

PS

DAME Helen Mirren should forget about any sequel to the Calendar Girls film,
says her co-star from the 2003 comedy success, Penelope Wilton. After watching
veteran TV host Dame Joan Bakewell being grilled by Mirren in a 'turn the
tables' interview at Bafta in aid of Cancer Research UK, Ms Wilton tells me: 'I
know a new tenth anniversary calendar has just come out, and there is a stage
show as well, but I don't believe there should be a new film. The Calendar Girls
brand has gone as far as it can go.' Meanwhile, Bakewell enjoyed the role
reversal with her fellow Dame. 'I am very comfortable in Helen's company,' she
says. 'We are both strong, opinionated characters with a feminist slant.'

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

TELEGRAPH POLL;
Support for the major parties falls as 2 in 3 voters doubt integrity of MPs

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; INVESTIGATION - THE EXPENSES FILES - DAY 11; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 480  words


SUPPORT for the major political parties has fallen sharply in the last month as
voters have turned away from them in the wake of the row over MPs' expenses,
according to a Daily Telegraph poll.

Eight out of 10 people think it is likely that MPs of all parties claimed money
wrongly, the survey found.

The poll paints a picture in which MPs are held in contempt by many voters, with
nearly two thirds of people saying that they have less integrity than 50 years
ago.

However, David Cameron emerges with more credit than Gordon Brown. When asked
who had acted more decisively in the face of the expenses disclosures, 54 per
cent said the Conservative leader, and only 12 per cent Mr Brown.

The Telegraph/YouGov survey put the Tories 16 points ahead of Labour. Mr
Cameron's party polled 39 per cent, down six on last month, Labour 23 per cent,
down four, and the Liberal Democrats 19 per cent, up one.

Crucially, the "other'' parties are now also on 19 points, the same as the
Liberal Democrats and only four behind Labour. That is a surge of nine points
and shows that voters are considering turning towards more minority parties.

The poll found that none of the main parties was on course to perform well in
the European elections next month. Among those certain to vote on June 4, 26 per
cent backed the Tories, 21 per cent Labour and 14 per cent the Liberal
Democrats.

One of the big beneficiaries of the expenses scandal could be the UK
Independence Party (Ukip). It is on 16 points, putting it in third place.

There has been concern that the BNP is well-placed to win its first seats in the
European Parliament. It is on seven per cent, behind the Green Party.

But it is the ''anti-politician'' feeling that will most worry all the main
parties at Westminster.

Eighty six per cent of people said there was "a widespread problem involving a
large number of MPs claiming money to which they are not entitled''.

There is little doubt about what the public feels should happen to MPs who have
transgressed. Sixty four per cent said those found to have made mistakes should
face prosecution, even if they had repaid the money.

Nearly a quarter (22 per cent) said anyone found guilty should be sent to
prison, regardless of the amount they had wrongly claimed.

Today Mr Cameron will start his European election campaign amid the worst
political crisis for years. He will be in the North West, one of the regions
that both Ukip and the BNP are targeting.

But MPs who have been exposed by the expenses scandal face a battle to retain
the backing of their parties.

Both Tory and Labour constituency activists are likely to move to deselect those
who have abused the system.

Last week Mr Cameron said it was up to local associations to decide how they
dealt with errant MPs.

The poll found 64 per cent believed MPs should be deselected, even if they had
admitted their mistakes and repaid money claimed.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

PACK YOUR BAGS MICK;
'Fresh face' must clean up the mess

BYLINE: by RICHARD PEPPIATT

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 530 words


LIB Dem leader Nick Clegg yesterday urged the Commons Speaker to quit over the
MPs' expenses scandal.

He said Michael Martin was not the "right man" to lead urgent reform of the
expenses system.

The dramatic demand broke with a centuries-old tradition forbidding criticism by
senior party figures of the Speaker.

Under-fire Mr Martin will face a motion of no confidence in the Commons today,
put forward by MPs who also believe he should go now.

He has been accused of failing to act in the crisis over MPs' expenses which are
his responsibility - and his own travel bills have stirred up criticism.

The Spearker is expected to insist he will stay on until the next election.

If he goes now, he could lose a GBP 100,000 resettlement allowance.

But Mr Clegg said on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show: "We need a fresh start.

Westminster is now engulfed by a political crisis, the likes of which we haven't
seen for generations.

"We need to do something different, radically different, and I just don't think
defenders of the status quo are the right kind of people to do that.

"It needs to happen sooner rather than later.I think the Speaker needs to do the
decent thing, recognise things have changed, that he is not the right man for
the job, and move on."

Yesterday more details about MPs' extravagant use of expenses were revealed.

Former Tory Chief Whip David Maclean, who has campaigned to keep MPs' expenses
under wraps, spent more than GBP 20,000 of taxpayers' money doing up his
farmhouse by claiming it was his second home.

But when he sold it for GBP 750,000, he said it was his main home - and
therefore avoided capital gains tax. He then 'flipped' his second home allowance
to a GBP 550,000 flat in Westminster.

Labour MP Fraser Kemp campaigned for a law to keep MPs expenses under wraps at
the same time as claiming for two DVD players in one month and 16 bed sheets in
seven weeks - for his one-bedroom home.

Shadow defence spokesman Julian Lewis pocketed GBP 2,369 for kitchen appliances,
GBP 646 for bath taps, GBP 119 for a trouser press and GBP 4 for wax polish.

Ex-Government whip David Clelland - another supporter of hiding expenses - tried
to claim 89p for binliners and 36p for fuses.

And it was revealed that Tory MP Tony Baldry claimed the maximum housing
expenses last year of GBP 23,083 - despite having 10 other lucrative jobs
outside Parliament.

The scandal has left mainstream politicians fighting for their careers, says a
new opinion poll.

Two in five Brits have turned their backs on them in favour of minor parties -
or will not bother to vote at all.

Labour have been worst hit, slumping to a grim 17% - their lowest figure in
living memory - and two points above the Lib Dems on 15%.

The Tories, who are down to 30%, have also been scarred by the scandal despite
leader David Cameron's strong action against cheats in his party.

UKIP, the Green Party and even the far-right BNP are now expected to poll well
in the upcoming European elections and Labour may face the humiliation of being
forced into third or fourth place.

A massive 38% of voters think Prime Minister Gordon Brown should dissolve
Parliament immediately and call an election after facing a vote of no confid
ence.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLISHED: MP Lewis
ON THE JOB: Baldry
PRESSURE: Michael Martin leaves his Glasgow home yesterday
BOMBSHELL: Clegg makes his call on TV
CHEERS: David Clelland, above, claimed for fuses. David Maclean, left, did up
this farmhouse, below. And Fraser Kemp, bottom, charged for DVD players

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Labour vote 'will drop below 17%'

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 140  words


GORDON BROWN is on course for total humiliation in next month's European and
local elections with a historic slump in the Labour vote.

Two opinion polls yesterday suggested Labour will struggle to get a 17 per cent
share of the vote in the June 4 ballot for the European Parliament.

Four out of 10 voters are expected to reject Labour, the Tories and the Liberal
Democrats through disgust at the expenses scandal.

The poll findings last night triggered alarm in the Labour party.

Research by pollster BPIX put Labour neck-and-neck with the UK Independence
Party on 17 per cent.

Tory support was at 30 per cent and the Liberal Democrats had 15 per cent.

A separate survey by ComRes yesterday gave Labour 16 per cent of the vote, the
Tories 31 per cent and the Liberal Democrats 13 per cent. Forty per cent are not
backing any of the major parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Labour voters? I couldn't find one

LENGTH: 804 words

ABSTRACT

Patrick Barkham: I've visited six constituencies to see how the expenses scandal
is playing. My conclusion: Labour is heading for electoral oblivion

FULL TEXT

Voters love to whinge about Westminster. On the streets the government will
always get a good verbal kicking. But in the ­privacy of the voting booth, the
electorate becomes more gentle.

Before the 2005 general election, I interviewed  around Britain and became
convinced that the polls were not picking up the level of discontent, and Labour
could lose the election. It didn't.

So I am going to be more cautious this time: the Labour party is heading for
electoral oblivion, a complete meltdown from which it could take a generation to
recover. The political classes in parliament know they are in trouble, but I
still don't think they realise just how catastrophic the  has been for Labour.

Last week, I travelled to six Labour and Conservative constituencies across
Greater Manchester, Cheshire, Nottinghamshire, Rutland, Lincolnshire and
Berkshire, and spoke to around 100 ordinary voters, some at great length. I was
careful to ask them neutral questions and not to put words into their mouths,
but very quickly a pattern emerged.

Conservative-inclined voters are furious with the Tory , but most admired
Cameron's nimble response; and while a few will defect to Ukip in next month's
European elections, most said they would still vote Tory come the general
election.

And Labour-inclined voters? I could not find a Labour voter.

I found plenty of people who had always voted Labour, or backed Blair's
government last time: pensioners, men in their 30s, mothers, grandmothers, small
business people and those on benefits. All said they would not vote for this
Labour government again.

The most disillusioned parts of Britain were the poorest, in Labour's heartlands
- Hazel Blears's Salford constituency and Geoff Hoon's Ashfield constituency, in
Nottinghamshire. Here the expenses scandal is seen as the last straw, and the
ultimate proof that the party Tony Blair modernised and centralised, and stuffed
with professional politicians intensely relaxed about people getting filthy
rich, no longer understands, let alone represents, the interests of the ordinary
working person.

Kate Cooper, a Somerfield worker in Kirkby-in-Ashfield, was typical of the
Labour voters I talked to. "I always said I'd never vote Conservative, but I
would seriously consider it now," she said. "When I was growing up it was the
Conservatives who kept the rich rich and the poor poor. Everyone expected that
with the Conservative party, but no one expected it with the Labour MPs - you
expected them to be working alongside you."

Over and over again, Labour supporters said the same thing: the party was no
longer for the workers. Young people are often alienated from politics but
pensioners - usually reliable voters - were particularly furious with Labour.

Most Labour voters said they would not vote. Of ex-Labour voters still intending
to vote, many said they would back , in a protest against the major parties.
Labour can raise the alarm about the BNP all it likes, but, as one ­lifelong
Labour voter said, Labour's moral ­authority to suggest that the BNP is morally
corrupt has evaporated with all those dodgy receipts.

Labour will not disappear. Yet. Some of its most diligent constituency MPs may
survive. And it will still pick up some middle-class votes and the backing of
public-sector professionals, for whom a £64,000 basic salary seems almost
­normal. But, as Labour activists have been warning for years now, the party's
working class support has disintegrated as the party's centralised leadership
has starved the grassroots of any dynamism, independence or ability to do things
such as choose its own, local candidate.

So this disaster cannot be repaired from the top. Labour will need to do
something far more radical than dump Gordon Brown and eject a few of the
dodgiest of its MPs. In voters' eyes, the party is rotten at its head and
powerless at the bottom. The solution is not about turning left or right:
reinvigorating local Labour democracy, re-energising its grassroots and
returning as a credible force in local politics might be the best way repair the
rift with the ordinary people it once counted as its supporters.

Easier said than done when there is almost no one to perform this Herculean
task. For Labour, there is no new ­generation, apart from a privileged elite of
­special advisers and spin doctors who have grown up in the Westminster bubble.
The only sons and daughters of Blairism are those, like Georgia Gould, who were
quite literally born into New Labour. For all their reforms, Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown's legacy is a ghost party, without activists, energy or support.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

In peril Mr Speaker fights on for another day

LENGTH: 568 words

ABSTRACT

Contrary to predictions, and much to the anger of MPs, Michael Martin said
nothing of retirement in a misjudged moment

FULL TEXT

So Michael Martin fights on. His statement to MPs a few minutes ago amounted to
a belated effort to inject some urgency into the reform of MPs' expenses, fast
enough for him to deliver some progress within 48 hours. Contrary to predictions
the Speaker said nothing about his own retirement plans, now or when next
spring's election comes.

He misjudged the moment, not as badly as he did last week when he attacked his
critics from the chair, but his position is more perilous than it was last week.
Indeed, as one Liberal Democrat said, if he had said this weeks ago things might
be different.

Now it will not satisfy the anger among MPs, let alone the wider watching public
and did not when he sat down. A succession of MPs - mostly members of the
all-party Awkward squad - rose to protest in varying degrees of delicacy to tell
him that not even his personal apology - on behalf of them all - was good enough
to resolve the situation.

Angry backbenchers streamed out on to College Green to protest. He "will not
survive this week", said Labour's Gordon Prentice. But it is more complicated
than that, it always is. The Speaker was right to say the motion tabled by the
Tory MP Douglas Carswell is not a substantive motion that can be debated this
week as they demand.

It will take a government motion - or one from any of the opposition parties on
one of the days routinely allocated to them - to force the issue. First
indication from the Tories - reinforcing William Hague's weekend hint - is that
they will not move first. Will the government? That is the immediate question -
as yet unanswered.

Prentice, Carswell, Labour's David Winnick, the Lib Dem's David Heath, they all
piled in - Carswell rude enough to provoke murmurs of protest from the Labour
side. More subtle, Sir Patrick Cormack, the ultimate self-styled Commons man,
cleared his throat and likened the house's position to that of "the country at
the time of the Norway debate. Could you reflect on that?" Richard Shepherd, the
gallant libertarian Tory backbencher, joined the fray, his voice breaking with
emotion.

Shepherd's description of a "constitutional crisis" was underlined by Cormack's
reference to 1940 and the crisis debate that replaced Neville Chamberlain with
the Churchill coalition: polite but pointed. As he later explained on TV,
Cormack wants the Speaker to signal a willingness to step down later this year.
He piled on the personal flattery to sugar the pill, but a pill it was.

Only two MPs spoke in the Speaker's defence, Labour's Sir Stuart Bell, a member
of the Commons commission chaired by the Speaker, and ex-Tory Ukip man, Bob
Spink, who said he did not want Martin made a "scapegoat for the actions of
these members" - he pointed across the floor. Mark Field attacked, by nameing,
Labour MPs who had "confessed" to fraud - and was advised to curb his tongue.

Though Bell claimed that "a majority of this house" would back the Speaker's
plan - and was jeered for it - no one actually knows. Those who speak on such
occasions - and then dash to College Green to talk on TV - are less important
than those who chose not to speak or do not say explicitly what they really
mean. It is usually the case. It was in 1940 when Winston Churchill defended a
prime minister he was about to replace.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

David Cameron has dealt with expenses crisis well, voters tell Guardian poll

LENGTH: 538 words

ABSTRACT

· Gordon Brown's reaction to the allowances controversy panned· Survey suggests
scandal has failed to dislodge economy as key issue for voters

FULL TEXT

A sizeable majority of voters say Gordon Brown has handled the crisis over MPs'
expenses badly and most believe David Cameron has dealt with it well, a
Guardian/ICM poll reveals today.

The results of the poll, conducted over the weekend after the Daily Telegraph
had featured stories on MPs of all three main parties, underline the view at
Westminster that Cameron's response to the 12-day furore has been more
fleet-footed and direct than Brown's. But the results also suggest that voters
believe all parties have been damaged by the row and that the issue has not
become a general election decider.

More than two-thirds of those surveyed, 69%, say the prime minister has handled
the controversy badly, including half of all Labour voters. But 55% of voters
credit the Conservative leader with handling it well. Opinion on Nick Clegg, the
Liberal Democrat leader, is evenly split: 37% say he has handled it well and 39%
badly.

When asked who they would vote for in a general election, the Conservatives are
down one point on 39%, Labour are down two on 28%, and the Liberal Democrats are
up 1%. Labour's vote share has fallen less dramatically than might have been
expected and the Tories and Lib Dems have failed to capitalise on the damage
caused to the government by the row. The share going to minor parties is up
three points to 14% overall, split mainly between Ukip and the BNP on 4% each,
the Greens on 2%, and nationalist parties on 3%.

Labour's showing is its worst in a Guardian/ICM poll since July 2008, and it is
also the Tories' worst performance in the poll this year. But the findings may
demonstrate that most voters are still more concerned about the economy and
other issues and regard the crisis besetting Westminster as a second-order
issue.

Some 63% of those asked thought all political parties had been damaged by the
expenses scandal, but 34% thought Labour was most damaged. Some 17% thought the
Conservative party had been damaged the most and 6% nominated the Lib
Dems.&nbsp;The percentages on this question added up to well over 100% because
voters were allowed to nominate two parties as well as "all of them".

Voters are resistant to pushing up the MPs' salary of £64,766 in an effort to
reach a new settlement around expenses. The poll asked whether voters would be
in favour of an increase in basic salaries to accompany a restriction in the
expenses they were allowed to claim, or did they think the present salary is
sufficient. Seventy-five per cent of voters were against increasing the salary
while only 22% were in favour. Upper- and middle-class voters, and
Conservatives, are slightly more likely to support wage rises for MPs.

· ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,002 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
15 and 17 May 2009.&nbsp; Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.&nbsp; Percentages may
not add to 100 because of rounding.&nbsp; ICM is a member of the British Polling
Council and abides by its rules.&nbsp;Further information at  &nbsp;

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

It is grimly clear that Labour will pay the price for this scandal. It is like
1983 again;
Analysis

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words


THE POLLS make it grimly clear that the Labour Party will pay the price for the
expenses scandal, regardless of how many Tory MPs also thought of the second
homes allowance as a private slush fund. The Independent on Sunday ComRes poll
put Labour on a record low of 21 per cent, while in the forthcoming European and
local elections, BPIX had Labour on 17 per cent: the same as the
suddenly-rejuvenated UK Independence Party.

The abuse has come to light on Labour's watch, in a Labour-dominated Parliament,
and the signs are that next month, Labour will have its worst result since
Michael Foot's time, or worse, because according to The Mail on Sunday poll,
there is a risk that in the 4 June elections to the European Parliament, Labour
could be overtaken by the dedicated eccentrics who make up the UK Independence
Party. Nothing like that happened in Mr Foot's day.

As a party activist canvassing for votes, the seriously bad times are when
voters are so angry that they slam the door in your face. The last time Labour
went through a patch like that was when, I was a foot-slogging activist taking
this sort of treatment before and just after the General Election of 1983. The
abuse was, if anything, less disturbing than the sarcastic pity from people who
believed that the Labour Party had turned into a rancid corpse. When you saw the
Conservative canvassers slogging around the middle-class estates in the mid
1990s, you could see that they were being put through a similar mill.

For the Labour canvassers who ventured out in this weekend's uncertain weather,
it must have been 1983 revisited. Those I spoke to were dreading what they were
going to hear as they bravely set out, because the saga of MPs' expenses has
triggered a public reaction like nothing we have seen for years. This is, of
course, grossly unfair on the underpaid, under-appreciated party worker on the
doorstep. None has a second home paid for by the taxpayer, but they have to soak
up the abuse that should rightly be heaped on the MPs caught with their fingers
in the cookie jar.

The only thought that may console Labour canvassers is that their opposite
numbers in the Conservative Party are catching it too, and so, probably, are
some Liberal Democrats. Losing several seats in the European Parliament will be
humiliation enough, but not as serious at ground level as the council seats
Labour is likely to lose. The June council elections may not be as bad for
Labour as the Euro election on the same day, but every lost council seat will be
a body blow. And electoral failure turns away donors. Tony Blair could afford to
keep trade union leaders at arm's length publicly, because he had millionaire
backers. The next Labour leader will have to keep the big unions on side.

But do not be misled into the writing the obituary of the Labour Party. In the
1980s, Margaret Thatcher was told that the party was dying but she was not
fooled. "The Labour Party will never die," she declared. She knew Labour has a
mass of devoted members for whom the party is their life. They will keep it
going no matter what. The Labour Party is not dead; but it is heading for a
near-death experience.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Officials 'allowed MP to over-claim on loan interest repayments';
Labour to query approval of Ben Chapman's claim Police likely to interview
ex-SAS officer over leaks

BYLINE: Michael Savage and Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1204 words


ANOTHER INVESTIGATION has been launched in the wake of the expenses scandal
after allegations that House of Commons officials allowed an MP to reclaim
mortgage interest payments he was no longer paying.

Labour's chief whip, Nick Brown, has spoken to Ben Chapman, the MP for Wirral
South, after he continued to claim the full value of mortgage interest payments,
despite repaying £295,000 of the loan in 2002. The practice is thought to have
allowed him to claim an extra £15,000 over 10 months.

The latest chapter in the expenses row, alleged by The Daily Telegraph, has put
renewed pressure on the fees office, which appeared to have approved the claims.
Mr Brown will now examine documents submitted by Mr Chapman and will "seek
further clarification from him and the Fees Office" this morning. Last night, Mr
Chapman had not agreed to return the money.

A senior Labour MP was also drawn into the expenses row, now into its 11th day.
The former party chairman, Ian McCartney, revealed that he had paid back around
£15,000 in expenses he had claimed to kit out his second home. He said that he
had decided to hand back the money to "ensure public confidence" in the expenses
system.

His original claim for household items, including an 18-piece dinner set,
champagne flutes and wine glasses, was docked by £1,400 by officials. But he
repaid the claim last year because Commons rules changed to limit the amount
that could be used for furnishings. "If they are not appropriate now, they were
not appropriate then. That was important to me," Mr McCartney said last night.
"I am appalled my hard-earned reputation could be undermined and traduced by
misrepresentations."

A group of MPs who had attempted to block the publication of parliamentary
expenses were also accused of claiming thousands of pounds under the system.
David Maclean, a former Tory chief whip who introduced a bill to Parliament
aimed at exempting MPs from key sections of the Freedom of Information Act, was
accused of spending £20,000 from taxpayers on renovating and improving his
"second home" before selling it. The property was then listed as his main home
with the Inland Revenue, meaning he paid no Capital Gains Tax. Mr Maclean said
any suggestion that he had attempted to dodge tax rules was "an absolute
fabrication"..

The police are expected to interview a former SAS officer with links to the
Tories over the leak of MPs' expenses to the media. John Wick, a former major in
the Parachute Regiment and special forces, now a security consultant with a
history of failed business ventures, is said to have acted as a conduit in
offering the data to a number of newspapers, along with a US-born public
relations businessman, Henry Gewanter.

Jack Straw, the Justice Secretary, fended off accusations from the former
Westminster watchdog that he had stood in the way of reform. Sir Alistair
Graham, former chairman of the Committee on Standards in Public Life, said the
head of the civil service and the Prime Minister agreed to an examination of
reforms two years ago but Mr Straw opposed it. "I think he was genuinely
concerned about a febrile atmosphere on the Labour backbenches and the last
thing that they wanted was a review of expenses," Sir Alistair said. A spokesman
for Mr Straw dismissed the claims.

Labour's National Executive Committee meets tomorrow to discuss a plan to
deselect any MP who breaks expenses rules.

Polls suggest Labour has been hit hardest by the crisis. A BPIX poll for The
Mail on Sunday put Labour neck and neck with the UK Independence Party for the
European elections on 4 June - each on 17 per cent of the vote. A poll for The
Independent on Sunday put Labour on a record low of 21 per cent of support, only
three points ahead of the Liberal Democrats.

The mood in Westminster remains grim. One MP said a "collective neurosis" had
descended because of the expenses crisis. "A psychologist could do a very
interesting study on the effect it has had here," the MP said. "Everyone is in
pieces."

The accused

More MPs named and shamed

* David Maclean The MP, pictured left, spent £20,000 of taxpayers' cash on his
"second home", a Cumbrian farmhouse, before selling it for £750,000. The key
architect of a Bill to exempt Parliament from aspects of freedom of information
law, he then avoided paying capital gains tax on the sale by telling the taxman
it was his main home. Mr Maclean then "flipped" his allowance to a £550,000 flat
in Westminster. Between 2006 and 2008 he claimed £3,728 on refurbishing the
Westminster flat. He denies switching designations to avoid paying tax: "I will
be eligible and will pay for capital gains on the London flat."

* Ian McCartney After the High Court ruled that expenses claims should be
published, the former Labour Party chairman paid back £16,000 he had claimed for
furnishing and decorating his second home. His claims included an 18-piece
dinner set, champagne flutes and wine glasses, which he said were necessary for
meetings at his home when he was a senior minister, a £249 vaccum cleaner, £700
for a dining table and chairs and a £1,815 decorating bill. The authorities
queried a claim for a £1,100 wardrobe, paying only £600 towards it.

* David Clelland The Labour MP for Tyne Bridge told Commons authorities that his
partner wanted to end their joint ownership of a London flat because of
"increasingly bureaucratic" expenses rules. He bought out his partner's interest
in the mortgage and claimed £431.36 in legal costs. Taxpayers were left
contributing an additional £198.67 a month towards the MP's mortgage interest
repayments. The former whip also had a four-year dispute with the Commons fees
office over claims for Cillit bleach (£2.98 ), pedal bin liners ( 89p) and 36p
for fuses. The MP said that there was "nothing illegal or improper" in his
claims.

* Ruth Kelly Among the former Cabinet minister's claims was £3,600 for a sofa
and chairs and £2,000 for a plasma television and accessories. The fees office
reduced or rejected some of her claims for exceeding the maximum price. The
Bolton West MP has reportedly claimed almost £120,000 in second home expenses
since 2001.

* Ed Vaizey A key ally of David Cameron and MP for Wantage and Didcot since
2005, he had £2,000 worth of furniture, including a £671 table, delivered to his
London home when his designated second home was in Oxfordshire. The fees office
knocked back the claim, and the bill was later paid by Mr Vaizey.

* Madeleine Moon Bridgend's Labour MP since 2005 spent thousands of pounds on
furniture from shops near her home in Wales, although her designated second home
was a flat in London. She expained that the Welsh shop in Wales even if the
items were for installation in London.

* John Redwood The former Conservative Cabinet minister and leadership contender
made a duplicate claim for a £3,000 decorating bill on his second home in April
2007. The fees office only asked him to repay the money four months later. He
reportedly moved his second home three times between 2004 and 2008, but denied
'flipping' the address.

"Face the facts: Most MPs and decent people, not crooks"

Bruce Anderson, page 25

PLUS Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, page 27

You Ask The Questions,

Alan Johnson, page 30

Stephen Glover, Media, page 43

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

PERKS SCANDAL OF COVER-UP 5

BYLINE: ALLISON MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 322 words


FIVE MPs who led a bid to keep expenses secret have raked in thousands of pounds
in lavish expenses claims.

Labour's Fraser Kemp and David Clelland and Tories David Ruffley and Julian
Lewis were among 98 MPs who backed Tory David Maclean's 2007 bill to exempt
Parliament from Freedom of Information laws.

Mr Maclean had pounds 20,000 to revamp a farmhouse, later sold for pounds
750,000.

He got the cash as Parliament deemed it his second home.

But he avoided capital gains tax because the taxman accepted it as his main
home.

Former whip Mr Kemp bought 16 bedsheets in seven weeks for a onebedroom flat.

He also made a failed claim for a pounds 1,699 TV - a year after getting pounds
599 for one. He called some of the items "an error" and offered to repay.

Mr Clelland got thousands after buying out his partner's share of their mortgage
on a London flat.

Shadow Home Office minister Mr Ruffley "flipped" his second home to one in Bury
St Edmunds, Suffolk - then spent thousands on it. And shadow defence minister Mr
Lewis's pounds 6,000 claim for a wooden floor was rejected as "extravagant".

The expenses scandal has seen Labour hammered in the polls, with a Mail on
Sunday survey predicting it will get just 17 per cent of the vote in June's Euro
elections - level with UKIP. An Independent on Sunday poll put Labour on 21 per
cent, 19 behind the Tories.

Extra payouts 'got go-ahead' MP Ben Chapman was allowed to continue claiming
interest payments on his mortgage despite repaying pounds 295,000, it was
claimed last night.

He was said to have been given permission by Parliamentary authorities.

The Labour MP for Wirrall South got pounds 15,000 for the part of the home loan
that was paid off.

But Mr Chapman has said he will not give it back. Downing Street has launched an
investigation.

Meanwhile, ex-Labour chairman Ian McCartney revealed yesterday he returned
nearly pounds 15,000 in expenses voluntarily to regain public confidence.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLELLAND Mortgage MACLEAN Tax get-out KEMP Admitted 'error' LEWIS
pounds 6,000 floor ROW Ben Chapman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Voters set to punish parties

LENGTH: 46 words


Labour was neck and neck with the UK Independence Party in a poll yesterday as
voters looked set to punish mainstream parties over the expenses scandal.

The BPIX poll put Labour's expected vote share in the June 4 European elections
at 17 per cent, with the Tories on 30 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Time for 'Little People' to have their revenge..

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 659 words


THE QUEEN, the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the House of Commons are, in
that order, the three most powerful people in Britain.

That historical fact places in context the degree to which thuggish Michael
Martin has trashed this proud and noble office.

Brave Speakers have in the past paid with their lives for defending our elected
representatives against bullying by the Crown.

Martin will be the first in history to be kicked out for bullying MPs and
bringing the Mother of Parliaments into disrepute.

"Gorbals Mick" long ago lost all credibility as an impartial upholder of his
high office.

Now his departure is essential to clear the noxious air at Westminster.

It will also mark the end of a period of political corruption that began with
Labour's landslide majority.

Labour used its elective dictatorship to shoehorn Mr Martin - a tribal Labour MP
and Gordon Brown's close ally - into the key role as Commons referee.

In return, Mr Martin umpired Westminster politics with all the even-handed
neutrality of Champions League semi-final ref Tom Henning Ovrebo.

It is thanks to him that MPs' perks were allowed to fester into a poisonous
bombshell of greed and embezzlement.

Leaving him in place to collect a £100,000 pay-off and hand his Glasgow seat to
his son like some hereditary robber baron would be the final insult.

Mr Brown knows this and hates it. The Scottish mafia gives and demands total
loyalty - yet he must cut his political blood brother adrift or go down with
him.

It is all the harder after the departure of henchman Damian "Mad Dog" McBride
for sending poison emails - and the exposure of so many others whose usefulness
has been neutralised by the public spotlight.

Arrogant Mr Brown's trusted inner circle is fast diminishing.

All parties are publicly shamed by the unscrupulous and blatantly illegal
fiddles of their MPs.

It was wondrous to behold the expressions on MPs' faces morphing from arrogant
denial to abject fear as the Plod began to make inquiries.

Some will be lucky to avoid jail - let alone stay on as Members of Parliament.

But it is Labour - and Gordon Brown personally - who are most seriously damaged.

The threat comes not from the media but from those "hard-working families"
politicians love to patronise and who are now so outraged.

They are the mums and dads who must shop around to save pennies to keep a roof
over their heads while MPs claim for mortgages they don't have and then wave a
cheque for sums beyond the dreams of most voters.

Tory and Lib Dem MPs were just as contemptuous of the law on fraud as Labour.

But Labour is in government. Labour is the self-proclaimed party of fairness.
Labour was supposed to help the little people.

And now, betrayed and angry, the "little people" intend to wreak revenge at next
month's mid-term elections.

Labour could lose control of three county councils and will be lucky to beat
UKIP into fourth place on Europe.

Worryingly, the sub-Nazi BNP will also gain from protest votes.

Nor will Tories escape lightly after evidence of eye-boggling greed and
contempt.

But David Cameron, who has won applause for a swift response, has some important
cards to play.

He promises to axe many of the perks, slash the number of MPs and make all pay
and pension rulings fully transparent.

But he must not stop there. The gravy train is out of control across all tiers
of government - national, local and European.

Town halls waste millions. The public sector is crying out for reform.

Pointless pseudo-government quangos mop up £70BILLION a year and employ 50,000
people hand-picked by the party in power.

Brussels is up to its neck in corruption.

Politics is in crisis - and every crisis presents an opportunity.

This is the Tories' chance to do Britain a service.

And clean out the sewer running not just through Westminster but through every
nook and cranny where taxpayers' hard-earned money is being so scandalously
squandered. Q Do you agree with Trevor? Have your say at thesun.co.uk/
columnists.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Angry voters may shun EU poll and aid fringe parties

BYLINE: Russell Jenkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 726 words


His hands still dirty from a week's hard graft, the self-employed heating
engineer who answered the door was in the mood to punish any politician who
dared to come asking for his vote.

He told Alex Williams, a Tory candi-datin the European Parliamentary elections,
that he normally voted Tory but was so sickened by MPs' greed that this time he
might support a fringe party, possibly the UK Independence Party.

"I play by the rules," he said. "I pay my taxes and the taxman will be down on
you like a ton of bricks if you try to get away with anything. The politicians
have made up their own rules. They are on the fiddle."

If Mr Williams, 34, a charming chartered accountant, was dismayed he tried not
to show it. Hair dripping from the rain, he moved from door to door on the
middle-class estate in Dodleston, south of Chester, receiving the same
disapproving looks.

At this point in a Labour Government, the Tories should be buoyant. Their
promise of a referendum on the Lisbon treaty should be denting the appeal of
UKIP. Labour should be retreating to their Manchester and Merseyside heartlands,
happy to cling on to their three seats in the European Parliament. These are not
normal times.

In the North West, set to return eight MEPs on June 4, one fewer than last time,
there are fears that disenchantment with mainstream politicians will produce a
collapse of turnout even in this region where turnout is notoriously low. UKIP
candidates could reap the benefits and Nick Griffin, leader of the British
National Party, could win a platform.

In the leafy streets of Dodleston, Mr Williams knocked on the door of a
mother-of-two who told him that, no, she would not be voting this time around.
"It is just with everything going on - my husband is being made redundant and
all you read about is how wealthy MPs are. Well, we are not. Not voting feels
like all I can do." It is clear that something profound has happened. Ordinary
people are very angry indeed.

On the other side of the county, in Ellesmere Port, Teresa Griffin, third on
Labour's list of candidates in the proportional representation system, cancelled
plans to go canvassing because of the pouring rain. It was probably just as
well. There have been ugly reports of doors being violently slammed in the faces
of politicians.

Asked to sum up the mood, one party worker screwed up her face and said:
"Painful."

Jane Kennedy, the Environment Minister, was happier among the waders of Hesketh
Bank, where a stretch of reclaimed land is being returned to salt marsh for the
lapwings and redshanks. She said that the political circumstances were "about
the most difficult I have ever worked in, certainly since the Eighties when
Labour was struggling with Militant".

Mr Griffin is standing in the North West and, if he is successful, pledging to
open BNP regional headquarters between Colne and Preston.

Gordon Birtwistle, the Liberal Democrat leader of Burnley council, warned
against hyping the BNP's appeal. The BNP was once the official opposition in the
former cotton town but their eight councillors have dwindled to four. "In truth,
there is not a great deal of interest in the European elections, which is
unfortunate because they spend most of our money and set most of our laws."

This complaint about the electorate's lack of interest in Europe was echoed by
Chris Davies, the region's only Lib Dem MEP. He has been using a £57 rail rover
ticket to traverse the area, stopping at stations to collect signatures for a
petition calling for MEPs to declare their expenses.

On a wet and blustery day at Chorley railway station, he complained that
although he was in the public eye more than any other North West MEP - 40,000
hits on Google - no one knew who he was. He is right. The ticket collector said:
"Chris Davies? Never heard of him."

Mr Davies was scathing about the defection of his MEP colleague Sajjad Karim to
the Conservatives and Mr Karim being given the No 2 slot on the party list -
replacing an MEP whom the Conservatives expelled for misusing his expenses. "It
looks on current performance that UKIP will trounce the BNP again," he said.
"They will take votes away from the Conservatives, stopping them from winning a
fourth seat.

"European elections are made for them in so much as they are seen as referendums
as to whether you like Europe or not. That is what they are there for."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Williams, right, Tory candidate for the EU Parliament, in
Dodleston with local councillor Stephen Mosley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Business & Media: Media:Media diary

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 512 words


A sorry tale to relate

A tricky business, having to address the MPs' expenses issue when you have
relatives involved. In the Mail, Edward Heathcoat Amory, who appears to have
dropped the family hyphen, was rather cruelly tasked with listing the excesses
of the speaker (which included "feathering the family nest") on the day after
the Telegraph exposed his brother, David Heathcoat-Amory MP, as having claimed
£380 for horse manure and, well, feathered the family nest. In Friday's Times,
columnist Alice Thomson, who is Edward's wife, pleaded for clemency for MPs'
wives in their "awful role", and urged readers to solely "pick on MPs" - people
like brother-in-law David, then. Oh, to be a fly on the wall at the next big
family Sunday lunch.

Splash down

The Times et al have been forced to follow the Telegraph's lead on the expenses
scandal which, given the bitter rivalry between the titles, cannot have been an
enjoyable experience. So some Telegraph journalists were amused to read the
Times's splash last Wednesday, which reported David Cameron's apology over the
conduct of his MPs. It was headlined: "Not our finest hour".

Gloves off at the Sun

A rare public punch-up between Sun contributors, after a low blow from columnist
Kelvin MacKenzie, left, forced the paper to issue an apology to boxing promoter
Frank Warren - who also pens an occasional column for the paper. MacKenzie had a
pop at Warren over his dispute with Joe Calzaghe, but retribution was swift and
a "clarification" appeared within 24 hours.

In camera?

At the launch of the BNP's European election manifesto last week, its leader
Nick Griffin, right, mounted a blistering attack on the BBC, that well-known
bastion of pinko lefties. "We, the British National Party, have been vilified by
the mass media - the BBC in particular - for decades," he declared, before
claiming: "You won't be hearing this on the BBC!" In fact, the BBC was carrying
his comments live on News 24, although it quickly cut away from the rally to
"breaking news". Perhaps the BNP Fuhrer. . . sorry, leader, failed to spot the
cameras?

Swedish message

A press release arrives from the UK Independence Party, which is demanding the
current expenses system be replaced with a more transparent alternative,
preferably by the introduction of: "a model similar to that of Sweden". UKIP
supporting the Swedish model? Surely some mistake.

Doing OK! is not enough

More blood-letting at Richard Desmond's OK! USA, which has been struggling of
late. Six staffers, including Katie Caperton, who was appointed editor-in-chief
two months ago - left the title last Monday, even though it sold more than
600,000 on newsstands the previous week. That is well above the 500,000 or so it
was averaging last year, but still far below Desmond's target. When he launched
OK! in the US in 2005, he set aside $100m for the project, but is burning
through that cash pile rapidly. Northern & Shell America made losses of £27.3m
in 2007, up from £18.1m the previous year. Sources in New York's media world
claim he could be losing up to $1m a week on the venture.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Comment: The right answer to public rage is a purge of the guilty: The decent
MPs must demand a clear out of the sleazy, both for their own sakes and to save
the reputation of Parliament

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1536 words


The significant split over sleaze is not between Labour and Tory, but between
the decent MPs and the indecent MPs. Consider the contrasting examples of
Margaret Moran and Kelvin Hopkins. They are both Labour MPs with roughly the
same size of majority who represent the people of Luton. There the similarities
end. Ms Moran, MP for Luton South, has been exposed as one of the most audacious
abusers of the second homes allowance. She took £22,500 out of the taxpayers'
pockets to treat the dry rot at a house in Southampton more than 100 miles away
from her constituency.

Mr Hopkins, MP for Luton North, commutes to and from Westminster rather than
claim any allowance for another home at all. He is among the parliamentary
angels; she is one of the parliamentary devils. In a just world, the likes of Ms
Moran ought to be out on her greedy arse and the likes of Mr Hopkins should be
able to carry on serving his constituents.

The world, especially the world of politics, is not always just. In a climate of
public wrath towards the House of Shame, the voters may be too blinded by anger
to discriminate between those MPs who have been milking the taxpayer and those
MPs who have never claimed a penny for plasma TVs, patio heaters, massage
chairs, phantom mortgages and all the scandalous rest of it. The great danger,
especially for Labour, is that the public is now in a mood to hold them all
culpable for the sins of some. The good will be scythed down with the bad. In
their righteous disgust with the scams perpetrated by some denizens of the
Chamber of Horrors, the voters are incandescent about the entire political
"establishment".

That this is a very potent threat is underlined by today's PoliticsHome poll,
highlights of which we publish in the Observer. The poll captures the fierce
intensity of public rage. More than a third of respondents say that the expenses
scandal makes them more likely to vote for a party that is not currently
represented in the House of Commons. More than a quarter say it has changed the
way they intend to vote at the Euro elections in early June. That is seismic. As
far as I am aware, it is unprecedented for a single event to have such a large
impact on voting intentions. The Tories and the Lib Dems may suffer from this
backlash, but the outlook is most ominous for Labour. It is Labour supporters
who say they are most likely to switch.

The poll suggests that the principal beneficiaries of this voter revolt will be
the Greens, the BNP and Ukip, all parties which don't have any members of
parliament. It will be rather perverse of voters to punish the sins of
Parliament by rewarding Ukip. That party is hardly a paragon of virtue. One of
the MEPs elected under Ukip's banner at the last Euro elections was later jailed
for benefit fraud. Ukip has had to kick out another of its MEPs after he was
charged with money laundering. As for the BNP, it is a party that is no stranger
to criminality. Yet many voters nevertheless seem intent on using them as a
handy scourge with which to flay the main parties. Labour is the most
vulnerable. The poll will feed the fears within the government's ranks that it
is conceivable that the Euro elections could place them fourth, behind the Lib
Dems and Ukip, a result that would be the most abject humiliation.

David Miliband got it right when the foreign secretary recently remarked that
"the politics of hate" thrive when voters become utterly alienated from the
mainstream parties. The only way back is for the political class to take
convincing steps that persuade the public that politicians fully grasp what has
been done wrong and are genuinely committed to putting it right. Michael Martin,
the pitiful Speaker, has shown himself utterly inadequate to this task. That
leaves responsibility with Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

In recent days, the three leaders have been competing to be seen as the one who
best comprehends public revulsion. Mr Clegg's Lib Dems have emerged from this
relatively unsleazed compared with the other parties. Chris Huhne's purchase of
a trouser press is little league compared with Labour and Tory expense claims
for mortgages that don't exist, two properties at once and the outrageous scam
of flipping. The Lib Dems can fairly claim that they were arguing for a clean up
of expenses when Labour and the Tories were until very recently conniving to try
to keep it all covered up. Gordon Brown tried to seize the initiative a
fortnight ago with his comedic gurning on YouTube. In the wake of that fiasco,
he has struggled to keep up with events, never mind get ahead of them.

The PoliticsHome poll finds that a majority of voters think that David Cameron
has handled the expenses scandal better than his rivals. That is testimony to
the Tory leader's tactical and presentational flair. Mr Cameron became
intolerant of the expenses rackets only once they were exposed. He became
vigorous on the issue only when all the revelations about Tory MPs and
chandeliers, helipads, moats and swimming pools started to ooze out. This
threatened to retoxify his brand by reviving the image of a privileged, selfish,
avaricious Conservative party, the very image that he has been trying to efface
from the voters' minds since he became leader.

David Cameron was a late mover on expenses. He's won plaudits because he sounded
robust and looked decisive when he did finally act. It was an effective piece of
theatre to name and shame errant Tory MPs, among them members of his shadow
cabinet. His insistence that all his MPs should repay unjustifiable claims left
the prime minister limping behind.

Andrew MacKay has been removed as a senior adviser to the Tory leader. Elliot
Morley and David Chaytor have been deprived of the Labour whip. Shahid Malik has
been suspended as a minister. There has been a shame-faced reversal in the flow
of traffic to the fees office. Where once MPs jostled to extract taxpayers'
money from the Commons cashpoint, now they are queueing to pay it back.

I have news for MPs. That is nowhere near enough. The voters' anger will not be
so easily assuaged. The prime minister and the Tory leader may be congratulating
themselves on how tough they've been, but their response is still far too
feeble. The politicians are a long way yet from finding a response which
appeases public fury. The voters are not to be bought off by Margaret Moran
paying back her dry rot bill only once it had been exposed and Hazel Blears
going on TV to wave a £13,000 cheque for HM Revenue.

Nor is their wrath deflected by Mr MacKay saying that he will start refunding
some of the huge sum, in excess of £100,000, that he claimed. The poll suggests
that more than three-quarters of voters aren't impressed by MPs paying back
money they should never have taken in the first place.

So what may help to convince the public that politicians are sincerely committed
to a fresh start? The most decisive finding of the poll is that more than four
out of five voters want any MP guilty of making excessive claims to be removed
as a candidate at the next general election. Whether voters identify themselves
as supporters of the Tories, Labour or the Lib Dems, they all say the same thing
by thumping majorities. They demand with one voice that sleazy MPs are booted
out.

That is good advice from the people and the party leaders should act on it and
urgently. The Commons needs to be given colonic irrigation. While they are at
it, an enema should also be stuck up the Lords. David Cameron can instruct his
new scrutiny committee to remove the Tory spivs and scam merchants. The
committee can be empowered to strike off the approved candidates list any Tory
MP found guilty of making unethical claims. On the Labour side, the party's
national executive committee will this week discuss a proposal to conduct a
clean-out. Gordon Brown should support this at once and ensure that there is a
tough mechanism for imposing deselection on the fiddlers and fraudsters on his
benches. This is especially imperative for Labour. Morality argues for it as
does sheer survival. The next election is going to be challenging enough for
Labour without the additional and crippling handicap of trying to defend seats
where the incumbent MP is irredeemably tainted.

Leaders may well be hesitant about ordering such a dramatic bleaching of their
parliamentary parties. They will fret that deselecting MPs will foment dissent
and cause division. So be it. That is a slight discomfort compared with the
scale of public rage. It is the only hope of rescuing the reputation of the
House of Commons, the most important institution of our democracy. If Gordon
Brown and David Cameron decline to take the scalpel to the dirty MPs, then the
clean MPs on all sides ought to rise up and demand surgery.

Their good names are being unjustly trashed by the bad behaviour of their sleazy
colleagues. Why should the reputable career of a Kelvin Hopkins be sacrificed
because of the disgrace of his next-door neighbour? Why should a whole
parliament suffer crucifixion in the media and contempt from the public? Before
it is too late, the decent members have to act to save themselves and Parliament
from the rotten MPs. It is time for a purge.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Comment: Cameron can't run away from Europe much longer: There's nothing
compassionate about the friends the Conservative leader is making on the
Continent

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1057 words


I won't be mean-spirited. The leader of the opposition is on a good run, but the
deserved plaudits will end next month when he leads his party into the swamp of
reactionary politics.

After the European elections, British Conservatives will leave the company of
Angela Merkel, Nicolas Sarkozy, Fredrik Reinfeldt and the other moderate
centre-right leaders who gather under the banner of European People's party.
Although they share reasonable conservative desires for lower taxes and sound
finance, Cameron cannot stick with them because they also believe in a federal
Europe. The Tories will ally instead with the proudly ignorant parties of
eastern Europe. Know-nothing chauvinism, sexual and religious prejudices, and
conspiracy theories from Europe's dark heart motivate them, but they are against
federalism and that is all that matters to Cameron.

Already, we have had the spectacle of the "decontaminated" Conservative party
courting the Latvian Fatherland and Freedom party, several of whose MPs marched
on 16 March in Riga with veterans of the Latvian SS. In Warsaw, the Tories are
as keen to woo the Polish Law and Justice party whose leading figures have
variously opined that Obama was the "black messiah of the new left" whose
victory marked the "end of the civilisation of the white man" and that
"homosexuality will lead to the downfall of civilisation".

In an effort to hold on to its thankfully falling vote, Law and Justice is
backing candidates who once stood for the League of Polish Families, an
ultra-religious party which combines authoritarianism and Catholicism and
announces its admiration for the efforts General Franco made to "thwart
communism" and preserve "traditional values".

At least Cameron's Czech allies in the Civic Democrats avoid the old hatreds of
Jews, gays and blacks, but Vaclav Klaus, its leader and the Czech president, has
found that a new spectre is haunting Europe: environmentalism. "Global warming
is a false myth and every serious person and scientist says so," he explained.

I think it is fair to say that none of the Tories' new friends would describe
themselves as "compassionate conservatives" or "metrosexuals". Cameron is going
a long way from the organic res taurants of Notting Hill, and further still from
a clear-headed understanding of the national interest.

The simple idea to keep in mind as you wade into the complexities of European
politics is that the EU is closer to a diplomatic alliance than the "superstate"
of Eurosceptic nightmare. Governments pursue political and national interests by
forming coalitions with like-minded parties and states. Cameron is proposing to
remove himself from the table, leave Britain's best cards behind and run off to
the fringe. When Merkel and other centre-right leaders discuss tactics and
priorities before meetings of the European Council, they will exclude Cameron.

On the next rung down, when continental conservative ministers do the same
before meetings on trade and foreign affairs, they will exclude ministers from
the new Tory government. As isolated will be Conservative members of the
European Parliament, who will make the journey from influence to irrelevance
overnight. In the best diplomatic language he can muster in the circumstances,
Hans-Gert Pottering, the conservative president of the European Parliament,
tells the Observer today that Cameron is cutting the British Tories off from
their "friends in the mainstream". But maybe they don't want to be friends with
the European mainstream.

I don't want to mock the green and gay sides of the new Conservatives. They are
their most attractive features. Cameron and his supporters give every appearance
of being open and modern men and women with no connection to the politics of
Blut und Boden. In my experience, however, their tolerant inclinations vanish as
soon as you raise the European question. Nick Clegg is running an effective
Liberal Democrat campaign by arguing that so instinctive is Tory antipathy that
Cameron would rather be soft on crime than friends with European allies, who are
- and very soon into a Cameron administration this may become significant - Nato
allies as well.

The Europol police agency has helped break up paedophile rings in the UK, Clegg
says. The European arrest warrant allowed the fast-track deportation to Britain
of Hussain Osman who had fled to Rome after trying to blow up a tube station.
Ordinarily, Tories are against paedophilia and terrorism, but the "Euro" prefix
is enough to make them damn both the agency and arrest warrant.

Put like this, Cameron's opposition sounds as fanatical as that of believers in
the Latvian fatherland or a Catholic Poland cleansed of the corruptions of
modernity. Yet when you look for Conservative arguments against the EU, you find
not fervour but silence. Say what you will about Charles Moore, Peter Lilley and
the older generation of Eurosceptics, but they knew the EU treaties backwards
and put the case against on every available platform. By contrast, Cameron never
talks about Europe.

"If he could press a button and make it go away, he would," a Eurosceptic
thinker explained. "He would much rather concentrate on other things."

He will be lucky if he can. If the rest of Europe has not fully ratified the
Lisbon Treaty by the time he takes power, his activists will make him honour his
promise to hold a referendum. Even if the treaty has been ratified, they may
force a referendum on him anyway. Meanwhile, his marriages of convenience with
sectarians are putting him beyond the pale of respectable European society. With
Britain sidelined, Franco-German domination of the Continent will increase and,
as it does, it will heighten resentment in a Tory party, whose body language all
but screams that it would rather die than co-operate.

Britain has three coherent European policies: to leave (Ukip); to go further in
(the Liberal Democrats); and to co-operate but remain aloof from full
integration (the Major, Blair and Brown administrations). Cameron lacks the
courage to choose any of the above and his indecision will produce a crisis.
George W Bush came to power in 2001 determined to keep America out of foreign
entanglements. He ended up at war in Iraq and Afghanistan. David Cameron will
come to power determined not to be troubled by Europe, but Europe will most
certainly trouble him.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Focus: MPs' expenses: The week Britain turned its anger on politicians: The
stream of revelations, recriminations and resignations over MPs' expenses has
not only wrecked careers and ruined reputations, it has also undermined the
legitimacy of mainstream parties offering themselves for government. Among
ministers, there is now a genuine fear of a repeat of the poll tax riots.

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Caroline Davies and Toby Helm

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2433 words


A heavy drizzle hangs over the picturesque Worcestershire town of Malvern as
Richard Burt works his way down a row of terrace houses. It is a bad night for
an aspiring politician to be canvassing - and not just because of the weather.

A middle-aged woman flies out of her front door. "I know they are all lying
shysters," she says. Then, recognising him as the husband of Liberal Democrat MP
Lorely Burt, she adds: "I hope your wife isn't one of them."

The names "Kirkbride" and "MacKay" - the married Conservative MPs who maximised
their expenses by each claiming for a different family home - are spluttered
before she demands to know about Burt's wife's finances.

West Worcestershire, wherein Malvern sits, was a prime target seat for the Lib
Dems even before its Tory MP, Sir Michael Spicer, was caught billing the
taxpayer for his chandelier. Yet the voters' mood is now difficult to read.
Steve Brown, canvassing alongside Burt, says: "It's almost like they are so
angry, or so apathetic, they don't know what to say. They are really confused."

After a week of revelations, recriminations and resignations over the
extraordinary abuse of taxpayers' money by those elected to serve them, the mood
at Westminster is also verging on hysterical. "Last week, everyone was in
denial. This week, everyone has been in shock. Next week, it will be panic,"
says John Mann, a Labour backbencher.

What is happening is no longer just a crisis for individuals, or even for
individual parties: the political system itself is under attack, threatening the
moral legitimacy of mainstream parties to govern. Parliament has failed, the
government is paralysed and the will of the people is asserting itself.

Professor Vernon Bogdanor, a constitutional expert, says the crisis is
unparalleled in British politics: "The scandals in the French third and fourth
republics are probably the nearest thing." A senior minister calls it a
"constitutional crisis"; a former cabinet colleague says events are spiralling
out of control. "This is an implosion of the body politic. The implications are
genuinely alarming."

Politics has always bred scandals, from the Profumo affair to "cash for
questions", but previously voters knew which party to blame - and simply
switched to their opponents. With every party now implicated, that safety valve
has gone, says Ruth Fox, from the Hansard Society, a constitutional thinktank:
"In the past, a general election would serve as a cleansing element. That option
is not available to voters now."

The tumbrils are not quite rolling up Whitehall, but MPs now fear the politics
of the lynch mob. Bricks were thrown through the constituency office windows of
Julie Kirkbride; politicians' wives face abuse in the street; and police are
protecting the home of Scunthorpe MP Elliot Morley after revelations that he
claimed £16,000 against a mortgage he had already paid off. Voters, says Labour
veteran Diane Abbott, want "dead MPs hanging from lamp-posts". Even one of the
government's steadiest performers, Margaret Beckett, was booed by the audience
on last week's Question Time

Among ministers, there is now a genuine fear of public disorder. Meltdown, an
anarchist collective involved in the G20 protests, is organising an "overthrow
the government" day in June, arguing that it is time to move beyond targeting
bankers. "The last time it felt like this was probably just before the poll tax
riots," recalls one Labour aide.

Even benign protests, such as the activists who dug a pound sign-shaped
flowerbed on Tory frontbencher Alan Duncan's lawn to highlight his £4,000
gardening bills, leave MPs jittery. One Tory frontbencher due to canvass for
June's elections this weekend was rung by panicking local councillors: "They
said not only could I not come, but that they're not going out either. There's
no point."

With public faith in the banking system shattered by the recession, and
confidence in the police undermined by allegations of brutality, many MPs feel
as if the establishment itself is crumbling. Where might this revolutionary
fervour end?

Ian Fairbairn knows all about public revulsion: he is, after all, an estate
agent. But he is also an angry and disillusioned Labour voter - and, as a
trained web developer, he understands the potential of the internet to bring
others like him together.

Despairing of parliamentary or police inquiries into MPs' conduct, he set up
www.dishonourable.org.uk last week, inviting ordinary individuals to nominate
MPs they feel have done wrong and independent candidates to register to stand
against them. It is getting 100 hits an hour. "I thought it was probably
appropriate to start people thinking what they might have to do if some of the
more shameless don't actually stand down," he explains.

Fairbairn says loyal party supporters should not have to choose between
re-electing a disgraced MP of their preferred party or being disfranchised. In
Salford, he argues, Labour voters deserve a wider choice than Hazel Blears. Next
door to him in Saffron Walden, he thinks Tories should not face the dilemma of
either endorsing Sir Alan Haselhurst, who charged the taxpayer £12,000 in
gardening expenses, or defecting.

Such arguments are music to the ears of mainstream proponents of electoral
reform. Malcolm Clark, of Make Votes Count, says the expenses row has exposed
the weakness of a system that guarantees MPs in safe seats a life tenure,
regardless of what they do. "If there is a strong feeling against some people
because of what they've done, why should it be so hard to ditch them?"

Faced with such revolutionary talk, even mainstream politicians are coming
around to the need for a purge. Labour's ruling national executive committee
(NEC) will this week discuss emergency arrangements to get rid of MPs judged to
have made themselves an electoral liability by abusing their expenses,
overriding a system that protected any sitting MP already reselected for the
next election.

An obscure rule would be used to allow the NEC to reject the candidacy of any
member judged to have brought the party into disrepute. NEC member Peter Kenyon
says MPs found wanting by Gordon Brown's promised audit of past claims should
face the consequences: "The question is what assistance can be given to
constituency Labour parties taking measured responses to that situation."

For the Tories, Cameron is not officially seeking deselections, but is said
privately to want rid of the worst offenders.

Tomorrow, a scrutiny panel headed by the chief whip, Patrick McLoughlin, will
start reviewing MPs' claims and deciding who should repay money: those who
refuse will lose the whip, potentially triggering local deselections. MacKay
also faces an extraordinary meeting of constituency members called for next
Thursday.

But the sheer number of possible offenders - and the difficulty of judging
claims that are technically within the rules but clearly politically
unacceptable - presents headaches for all three parties. "Are we going to start
removing the whip from 30 or 40 people? They could practically form their own
party," says one Labour aide.

Nonetheless, Cameron appears to have gained some credit by acting decisively.
Ministers have sought similar boldness from Brown in vain, while MPs are furious
that Downing Street seems to be waiting helplessly for the next blow to land.

"Everyone is on edge until about 3.30pm. If you haven't been called by then (by
the Daily Telegraph ), you know it's not you tomorrow," explains one cabinet
aide.

Yet there were signs this weekend of Downing Street starting to get a grip after
days of insisting that Labour could not act unilaterally, but must await
cross-party recommendations to clean up the system. "This has been Gordon being
too scrupulous: it's not that he doesn't get it, but he has felt you have to
take parliament with you," said one minister close to him. "But he is really
seriously engaged."

From tomorrow, Downing Street will also finally begin scanning ministers' claims
to see what other skeletons lurk.

The Tories have had 15 officials scouring receipts for days, meaning they could
have ordered MacKay's departure before the Daily Telegraph got to him: Labour
had no idea that the justice minister, Shahid Malik, was in trouble until he hit
the papers, leading to the embarrassment of Malik declaring himself "as straight
as they come" on television, hours before being forced to stand down as a
minister.

Similarly, the chief whip, Nick Brown, knew for a week that Morley was in
trouble after the MP confessed to "a problem" with his expenses - but he did not
alert No 10, or even meet Morley, until the day before the story broke.

Cabinet minsters are also furious that Brown has left colleagues swinging in the
wind while being quick to demand apologies from the Daily Telegraph over
allegations that he paid his brother to get him a cleaner. "You have to stand up
for people," says one. "Will Lewis (the Daily Telegraph editor) got the full
hairdryer treatment over Gordon's cleaner, but it was only about protecting
him."

And until clear guidance emerges from Brown on what is acceptable or who should
repay money, MPs are at the mercy of the kangaroo court of public opinion.

Bitter recriminations fly against Hilary Armstrong, who has pledged to repay
claims for food bills even though they were within the rules. Critics argue
that, having earned a three-figure salary in the cabinet for almost a decade,
she can afford it - unlike the average backbencher with an overdraft.

And while Downing Street was relieved when Hazel Blears voluntarily paid the
capital gains tax avoided by designating her second home as a main residence to
the Revenue and Customs when she sold it, not everyone feels the same. "Hazel
throwing around these £13,000 cheques - that is more than some of her
constituents earn in a year. It looks odd," says one former minister.

On the ground, repayment is being seen as an admission of guilt or a sign that
MPs must be overpaid if they can find huge sums overnight. "You're damned if you
give it back and damned if you don't," comments one cabinet aide.

Several ministers will now hand their receipts to their local papers rather than
await formal publication in July. But that will inevitably cast suspicions on
those who do not publish, ensuring that the row runs right up to June's local
and European elections.

When Lord Tebbit called last week for ordinary voters to show their disgust by
voting for fringe parties, the wily Tory peer caught the public mood. It may
have infuriated Tories as being a boost to Ukip, but in Labour circles there is
almost relief at the prospect of coming fourth behind a party that it regards as
half-baked. Being beaten by Ukip is more palatable than the rise of something
Labour fears far more: the British National party.

Today's PoliticsHome poll reflects intelligence on the ground that the anti-BNP
message from all three mainstream parties may be working: Searchlight, an
anti-fascist organisation, reports a shift to Ukip in the BNP's top target seat,
the north-west. As the Green MEP for the north-west, Peter Cranie, argues, this
election is the BNP's "last hurrah": if it cannot win a seat in such favourable
circumstances, it may implode.

Tebbit was careful to argue that angry voters should not back the BNP, but
Bogdanor argues that supporting any fringe party is a waste of time unless
voters genuinely believe in what it stands for. "It would be mad for people to
vote for parties they don't believe in just to make a point. The right solution
is for people to get involved: join parties and deselect the MPs who have done
wrong."

He argues that US-style primaries, in which voters as well as party members pick
a candidate, could channel public anger constructively. "In a large number of
seats, choosing the candidate is in effect the choice of an MP for life. This
makes the case for primary elections."

As for politicians themselves, the Lon don minister, Tessa Jowell, warns against
the dangers of hiding from an angry public. "When the going is really tough like
this, the most important thing is to meet people, listen to them, face their
fury."

The Lords, which last week suspended two peers over allegations of misusing
their position, will start the fightback this week by rubber-stamping plans for
an independent audit of Lords expenses, which do not allow peers to claim for
furniture, but include an overnight attendance allowance.

There is also a growing consensus in the cabinet that the Speaker, Michael
Martin, must go as a symbol of the need to change. As the Observer reports
today, the prime minister appears ready to surrender him.

For if they cannot be trusted with taxpayers' money, politicians will lose the
moral authority to take the decisions necessary in a recession. "How can we talk
about spending cuts, when everyone is hearing about moats and chandeliers?" asks
a Tory frontbencher. "But there are big decisions to be made."

Similarly, Labour's planned welfare reforms prompt accusations of hypocrisy. The
government will shortly launch a consultation on housing benefit fraud - fronted
by Kitty Ussher, the minister who tried to bill the taxpayer for removing Artex
ceilings in her London home.

And unless parliament can stop the rot, it may spread through public life. This
weekend, councillors are reporting demands being lodged under freedom of
information legislation for details of their perks; senior MPs fear an
inquisition spreading to senior NHS executives, chief constables, the BBC and
the judiciary.

While it is unlikely that many have offended on the scale of MPs, in a climate
of resentment over gold-plated public pensions and job security, more
revelations could drive yet another wedge between the people and the state.

And within the cabinet what is now being discussed is a more radical overhaul of
how politics is conducted in Britain. Ministers, led by Harriet Harman, are
pushing for a convention to be set up to tackle issues from MPs' pay to party
funding, reform of the Lords and electoral reform in one "big bang" solution.

Patricia Hewitt, a former health secretary, says the Constitutional Convention
established nearly 20 years ago in Scotland is one model, bringing together
politicians, church leaders, civic society and the public to discuss wholesale
reform. "The public elect us, it's the public who pay for us and we have to find
a way of involving the public directly in resolving this crisis," she says.
"This has gone beyond MPs' pay and expenses. What is happening is threatening to
destroy people's confidence in parliament."

There is not long left to restore it.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Front: Top donors turn against Labour over 'cheat' MPs: 'Shameful' expenses row
hits funding: Second MP suspended over mortgage

BYLINE: Rajeev Syal, Gaby Hinsliff and Toby Helm

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words


Labour's most generous donors are to withdraw financial support worth millions
of pounds and have called for the

arrest of the party's errant MPs in the wake of disastrous revelations about
parliamentary expenses.

The disclosure will cause further panic among Gordon Brown's advisers, already
overwhelmed by 10 days of damaging disclosures. Yesterday, a second Labour
backbencher, David Chaytor, was suspended from the party whip after admitting
claiming £13,000 for a mortgage he had already paid o&#64256;.

A poll published today on the website PoliticsHome.com, and previewed
exclusively by the Observer, shows that the scandal has driven more than a
quarter of voters to change the party they support. The main beneficiary is Ukip
,

followed by the British National party and the Greens.

The Observer has spoken to 10 prominent donors and only one said that he would
maintain financial support for Labour. The party, according to its last
accounts, is £18.9m in debt.

Anthony Bailey, the public relations "fixer" who introduced the £1m donor
Mahmoud Khayami and has given more

than £72,000 himself, said that he would not be donating to Labour and would not
encourage others to do so. "The expenses stories are shameful. Anyone who is
thought to have broken the law should be investigated by the police
immediately," he said. "I have no intention of giving a

single penny to Labour at this time, and I cannot see how I could introduce any
of my contacts either."

Bailey, who claims to have raised £1.4m for the party over the past two years
and sits on a government taskforce, added: "I can see many other donors
withdrawing their support."

One of the party's most generous donors, who did not want to be named, but gave
more than £500,000 when Tony

Blair was prime minister, said that he plans not to give to Labour again. "This
week comes after a very bad year (for Labour), and that ridiculous mess over the
50% tax band. Gordon Brown has not had much luck, but won't receive a donation
from me."

Moni Varma, the millionaire rice importer who has given nearly £30,000, said he
also will no longer contribute. "If this happened in business or any other

walk of life it would lead to prosecution," he said. Asked if he was considering
withdrawing support for the party, he

said: "Yes, I am disillusioned. They are going downhill. They were a good party
for Britain but now I don't know."

Sir Gulam Noon, the food tycoon who has donated more than £530,000 and was
interviewed under caution and

cleared during the "cash for honours" affair, said that many donors had been
"discouraged" by recent events. "I was

interviewed by police for lending money, so those who take it from the public
purse should certainly be interviewed.

There has been some outrageous behaviour from members of the Labour party. I
have not made up my mind whether to donate again," he said.

Only one current donor - Lord Paul, the industrialist and a close friend of
Gordon Brown - said that he would remain a financial supporter of Labour, but
with deep reservations.

"All hell has broken loose. There is an atmosphere I have not experienced
before, and it is bad for the country. My

faith in Gordon Brown remains strong. He is the only person who can lead us out
of this mess," he said.

The PoliticsHome poll found that of the 27% of voters now prepared to defect
from the party they currently support, 28% will back Ukip, 16% the BNP and 15%
the Greens. More than eight in 10 voters wanted MPs caught abusing expenses to
be deselected. The poll showed 57% of voters think David Cameron has handled the
scandal best, compared with 11% who think Brown has.

A separate YouGov poll carried out for the Green party is expected to reveal
this week that up to 34% of Britons would now consider voting Green. Tory
grandee Anthony Steen yesterday criticised the "lousy" expenses system after
reportedly claiming tens of thousands of pounds against his country home.
Insisting the system was to blame he said: "They (the public) must think we're
all crooks, but we're not." Sir Gerald Kaufman, the Labour MP, refused to
comment on allegations he claimed £8,865 for a television.

Last night there was growing unease among MPs about further revelations,
including rumours that some Westminster sta&#64256; will now expose scams not
revealed in the receipts.

Two MPs told the Observer of a well-known scam involving mileage claims, whereby
MPs invent journeys or share

lifts in one car back to their constituencies and then all lodge claims. "I
could claim I'd driven down to London today

and back, and had put in £250 of petrol, and nobody would be any the wiser,"
said one backbencher.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

Front: Top donors turn against Labour over 'cheat' MPs: 'Shameful' expenses row
hits funding: Second MP suspended over mortgage

BYLINE: Rajeev Syal, Gaby Hinsliff and Toby Helm

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words


Labour's most generous donors are to withdraw financial support worth millions
of pounds and have called for the arrest of the party's errant MPs in the wake
of disastrous revelations about parliamentary expenses.

The disclosure is a further body blow to Gordon Brown's advisers after 10 days
of damaging disclosures. Yesterday a second Labour backbencher, David Chaytor,
was suspended from the party whip after admitting he claimed £13,000 for a
mortgage he had already paid off, while a senior minister predicted that sitting
MPs would be deselected in a purge of parliament.

A poll published today on the website PoliticsHome.com, and previewed
exclusively by the Observer, shows that the scandal has driven more than a
quarter of voters to change the party they support. The main beneficiary is Ukip
, followed by the British National Party and the Greens.

The Observer has spoken to 10 prominent donors and only one pledged to maintain
financial support for the already heavily indebted party. Anthony Bailey, the
public relations "fixer" who introduced the £1m donor Mahmoud Khayami and has
given more than £72,000 himself, said that he would not be donating to Labour
and would not encourage others to do so. "The expenses stories are shameful.
Anyone who is thought to have broken the law should be investigated by the
police immediately," he said. "I have no intention of giving a single penny to
Labour at this time, and I cannot see how I could introduce any of my contacts
either."

Bailey, who claims to have raised £1.4m for the party over the past two years,
added: "I can see many other donors withdrawing their support."

One of Labour's most generous donors, who did not want to be named, but gave
more than £500,000 under Tony Blair, said he plans not to give again. "This week
comes after a very bad year (for Labour), and that ridiculous mess over the 50%
tax band. Gordon Brown has not had much luck, but won't receive a donation from
me."

Moni Varma, the millionaire rice importer who has given nearly £30,000, said he
will no longer contribute. "If this happened in business or any other walk of
life it would lead to prosecution," he said. Asked if he was considering
withdrawing support, he said: "Yes, I am disillusioned. They are going downhill.
They were a good party for Britain, but now I don't know."

Sir Gulam Noon, the food tycoon who has donated more than £530,000 and was
interviewed by police under caution before being cleared during the "cash for
honours" affair, said that he was undecided about whether to donate again. "I
was interviewed by police for lending money, so those who take it from the
public purse should certainly be interviewed. There has been some outrageous
behaviour from members of the Labour party," he said.

Only Lord Paul, the industrialist and close friend of Gordon Brown, pledged to
remain a financial supporter - but even he admitted that "all hell has broken
loose".

With up to a dozen MPs now fighting for their political lives, a senior minister
said some were clearly "irretrievable". "Public anger is so overwhelming that
MPs even in safe seats are going to have to account for themselves to their
local parties and to their public.

"Constituency parties will be looking at this and wondering whether they can win
an election if their MP has been revealed to be behaving badly," he told the
Observer . "If they come to the conclusion they can't (win the election) there
will be MPs who will be deselected, no matter how senior."

He spoke as the chairman of the Luton South Labour constituency association said
it had asked its MP, Margaret Moran, to explain herself. She billed the taxpayer
for dry rot treatment at a house in Southampton. The chairman, Mahmood Hussain,
said: "In our judgment this is something which is very questionable."

Labour's ruling National Executive Committee will discuss plans this week for an
emergency mechanism to deselect sitting MPs.

The Tory frontbencher Andrew MacKay, meanwhile faces an emergency meeting in his
Bracknell constituency this week. James Gray, who sought to claim the cost of
Remembrance Day wreaths, is also considered vulnerable.

The PoliticsHome poll found that of the 27% of voters now prepared to defect
from their current party, 28% will back Ukip, 16% the BNP and 15% the Greens.
More than eight in 10 voters wanted MPs caught abusing expenses deselected. The
poll showed 57% of voters think David Cameron handled the scandal best, compared
with 11% saying Brown had.

A YouGov poll for the Greens is set to reveal this week that up to 34% of
Britons would now consider voting Green.

Britain's anger, Focus, 26-27

Observer Comment, 32

Andrew Rawnsley, 33

Henry Porter, 34

Nick Clegg, 36

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 17, 2009
                                 First Edition

Who would want this poisoned chalice?;
No self-respecting challenger is likely to bid for the Labour leadership after a
week in which all parties were damaged

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 943 words


It is not only voters that are angry about MPs' expenses. "Terrible, terrible,
terrible," one Labour MP said to me, halfway between despair and fury at the
conduct of his comrades. Needless to say, his own use of public money is beyond
reproach. Now that The Daily Telegraph is coming to the end of its first trawl
of the two CDs of expenses files, it has found 82 MPs with questions to answer.
That is a lot, but it means that 564 MPs come out of Moatgate unscathed.

Except that they have all been scathed, by the fury directed at the political
class as a whole. It is not a fury that I share. David Chaytor, yesterday's
victim in the stocks, was "flabbergasted" to discover that he had claimed
£13,000 for a mortgage that had been paid off. I am surprised at his
incompetence, and that of Elliot Morley and several others, but I am
flabbergasted by the inertia of MPs in general. They could see the expenses
train bearing down on them. Six years ago, some of them even saw the smoke from
the engine in the distance. Chris Mullin in his diaries relates a conversation
with Robin Cook, who was then Leader of the House of Commons and who pointed out
the implications of freedom of information law.

They weren't even tied to the rails, but they didn't move. They focused their
efforts on preventing publication of their expenses, instead of on reforming the
system. The worst they could have done would have been simply to add the maximum
£23,000 second home allowance to their pay, which would have taken the salary of
MPs representing out-of-London seats to £88,000. That would have been generous,
possibly excessively so. But it would have generated enough outrage to carry the
front page of The Daily Telegraph only for one day rather than seven.

For me, the most striking fact of the week was that Andrew Walker, the civil
servant in charge of the Fees Office, is paid £125,000 a year. So the person who
administers the system of MPs' expenses, not particularly well it would seem,
gets twice as much as the poor saps to whom he administers it. And if he has two
homes he does not have to account for every item of spending.

However, the popular rage against politicians is plainly the great political
fact, or even the great anti-political fact, of the moment. This is not just a
matter of people losing their temper in public, or being rude on the internet,
or road rage - all those symptoms of a nation seething with anger-management
issues. This is about a large number of elected representatives falling short of
the standards of conduct expected of them: I don't doubt that the anger is
justified, I take issue with it only on grounds of proportion. But, however
excessive, the reaction to the scandal will have profound consequences at least
up to the next general election.

The first pressure point is the Speaker. Until the expenses story broke, Michael
Martin was an embarrassment, but one who would be allowed to serve out his term
and retire with what little dignity he can muster at the general election.
Indeed, that remained true after the story broke, but on Monday last week he
criticised personally two Labour MPs for causing trouble by suggesting that the
expenses system fell short of the Platonic ideal. That may have been sufficient
- given how bleak their mood is anyway - to have convinced enough Labour MPs to
support this week's attempt by the Liberal Democrats to bring the Speaker down.
It would take only 32 Labour MPs, if David Cameron decided that now was the
moment to strike.

If I were a Labour MP, it would be almost worth getting rid of Martin just to
take part in the constitutional novelty of a secret ballot to elect his
successor: that's a reform that has been agreed but for which there has not yet
been an opportunity.

The next pressure point is the local and European elections on 4 June. Labour
will probably lose control of all three of its county councils, but it is the
European vote that is shaping up as the great opportunity for protest politics.
It is perfectly possible that the UK Independence Party might win more votes
than Labour. Our ComRes poll today suggests that the potential vote for parties
that do not have MPs at Westminster, primarily Ukip and the Greens, is huge.

That brings us to pressure point three, the finely balanced game of bluff known
as the post-election reshuffle. It was significant last week that The Times
reported that Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, wants to step down. No doubt the
expenses furore has contributed to that decision, but it is important because it
pulls her back from the plotting to force Gordon Brown out of No 10. Monday 8
June, the day after the European election results are announced, is the obvious
day to stage a coup, and hence the obvious day to announce a pre-emptive
reshuffle.

Smith and Hazel Blears were the presumed core of the joint approach to the Prime
Minister to invite him to do the decent thing. Now both have been wounded by
their expenses, although it is still difficult to sack Blears without her
resigning first.

It is on Brown's future that the expenses issue has the most ambiguous impact.
Initially, it damaged him, and especially the contrast between his inertia and
David Cameron's vigorous response on Tuesday. And it strengthened Alan Johnson,
the Secretary of State for Health, who was one of the few Cabinet ministers to
come out squeaky clean from the Telegraph's first coal bath. But our poll today
suggests that most voters, if they agree that Brown is part of the problem, are
unconvinced that Johnson is part of the solution.

Paradoxically, it may be that the expenses disaster is so bad for Gordon Brown
that it saves his skin.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 17, 2009
                                 First Edition

Times must be hard. They are running those old ads again;
Nostalgia makes us feel good. And it makes big business feel even better, says
Nicholas Foulkes

BYLINE: Nicholas Foulkes

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1458 words


Nostalgia always becomes more important when times are tough, as traditional
values become more important. So said Marks & Spencer's marketing director when
asked to explain the new Twiggy advertisement, which features Swinging London's
favourite model in a late-Victorian street scene, recreating the period around
the high street retailer's foundation a century and a quarter ago. And while M&S
gives the nation a time-travelling model from the 1960s, Sainsbury's is
rewinding to the 1860s, for its most recent campaign, evoking 140 years of the
foodstore and recalling a gentler, pre-Jamie Oliver age.

Rather than being L P Hartley's foreign country where they do things
differently, the past is viewed with the affection one might bestow on a nice,
comfy and familiar pair of slippers: cosy, safe, and above all, reassuring.
Forget sex; right now it is the past that sells. Even the Milky Bar Kid is back
in town, and ever since it revived Ridley Scott's most enduring creation, the
Hovis boy, Premier Foods, which bakes the bread made famous by the boy climbing
a cobbled street to the strains of Dvorak, has seen sales climb by a remarkable
11 per cent.

This last advertisement is little short of a masterpiece. It is an orgiastic
wallow in more than 100 years of British history, told from the point of the
world's most famous baker's boy, who scampers impudently through everything from
the sinking of the Titanic to the Millennium fireworks. If nothing else, it
shows the remarkable and transforming power that nostalgia possesses, allowing
us to remake our present using the past not as it happened but as we would have
liked it to have been. About three-quarters of the way through and after
countless Union Jacks, the cheeky youngster finds himself in the no-man's-land
between miners and riot police; the tension lasts barely a second before it is
broken by a good humoured "Hey, lad. Isn't it past your bedtime?" Sheer, cynical
commercial brilliance: the most divisive labour struggle in the recent history
of this country rendered into a feel-good sound bite and used by a baker in an
ad to flog us brown bread.

Inevitably, the Hovis lad strays into the Blitz, complete with low-flying
Spitfire and Winston on the wireless promising to fight in the fields and in the
streets, vowing that "we shall never surrender". While enlisting the greatest
British prime minister of the last century to do a voice-over for a bread
commercial may seem merely trivial, there is something more concerning about the
uses to which Churchill and the Spitfire are put to work in other campaigns.

As I write a leaflet from Ukip has just fluttered though my letterbox, urging me
to give them my vote on 4 June. It shows a bow-tied and homburged Churchill
offering the V for victory. However, most disturbing is the appropriation of the
Spitfire by the BNP. Although the emotive effect that this might have had was
somewhat neutered by the revelation that the particular aeroplane in the picture
was in fact flown by Polish airmen, a fact that the BNP tried to turn to its
advantage when this apparent inconsistency was seized upon gleefully by Unite
Against Fascism.

Nostalgia is, by its very nature, constantly renewing itself. While the BNP is
coming over all white-cliffs-for-white-Britons, the Britain of the Second World
War sought solace in nostalgia for another vanished Britain.

Surely one of the finest films of that era is Powell and Pressburger's The Life
and Death of Colonel Blimp, an elegiac piece of narrative propaganda that is
both poignant and stirring. And during the war, before he was advertising bread
and Ukip, Churchill would take a break from the maelstrom in the pages of a long
comforting novel by Trollope: how pleasant it must have been to retreat into
those scenes of clerical and political life, with their soothing high church,
high Tory overtones.

But the Victorians were the biggest nostalgics of all. After all, Queen
Victoria's taste for Scotland was doubtless, at least in part, formed by her
fondness for the novels of Sir Walter Scott, an author who was probably
responsible for inspiring one of the most daft events of the age - Lord
Eglinton's medieval tournament in 1839, complete with jousting knights and suits
of armour. Although the 19th century may have been governed by a reformed
Parliament, and seen the spread of telegraphs and trains, it was almost
constantly looking back, as if afraid of the white heat of technology belching
out of the furnaces of the iron masters of the North.

During the middle of the century there was even an endearingly dotty political
movement called Young England, which propounded what appears to have been, more
or less, a return to feudalism. There was party political poetry, typical of
which is:

Each knew his place - king, peasant, peer or priest,

The greatest owned connexion with the least;

From rank to rank the generous feeling ran

And linked society as man to man.

Their feelings were summed up in the deathless couplet:

Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning die,

But leave us still our old nobility.

You can hardly blame them for getting carried away with romantic notions of a
return to the happy days of the Black Death and the ducking stool. After all,
the building in which parliament sat, one of the grands projets of the mid-19th
century, was a splendidexercise in pastiche Gothic erected by Sir Charles Barry
and Augustus Pugin after the Palace of Westminster had burnt down a couple of
years before Victoria was crowned.

Talking of buildings, the Prince of Wales has once more entered the
architectural debate with his recent address to the Royal Institute of British
Architects, polishing the venerable chestnut about how today's contemporary
architects apparently prefer to live in 18th-century houses.

If I were the Prince of Wales, I too would probably seek shelter under the
portico of an 18th-century building (itself a neoclassical recreation of
imagined ancient Athenian or Roman splendour). I can well understand how the
pain of the present can be salved by the soothing balm of the past, and I know
just how tempting it is now to snuggle under a comforting duvet of nostalgia.

Take the last time that Britain was in an economic fix comparable to today: the
1970s, a time of strikes and social unrest with Tony Benn on one side and Enoch
Powell on the other. No wonder the nation retreated into television schedules
dominated by Upstairs, Downstairs and Dad's Army.

I am a terminal nostalgic: I find it hard to live in and take pleasure from the
moment. Instead, the act of viewing life in retrospect allows me to make sense
of the present. But this process of contextualisation can easily become a warm
mug of saccharin-flavoured memories, and right now we are at our zenith of
collective time travel.

The Second World War and the 1966 World Cup are staples of national
self-congratulation, revived and relived by generations unborn at the time. But
now, as the nation in time of crisis once more lurches into the past, we are
seeing the 25-year rule at work. Twenty-five years is about the time it takes
for nostalgia to work its transformational magic and for the passage of time to
render the imperfections of life a generation ago into charming eccentricities.

I hope that I was not alone in enjoying Virgin Atlantic's 25th anniversary
commercial that mixed the eighties airportscape with Catch Me If You Can glamour
to a Frankie Goes to Hollywood soundtrack. Suddenly everything from "lunch is
for wimps" to ... well ... Wimpy Bars themselves seem irresistible.

Rather like the feeling of morbid guilt and regret coupled with protestations of
"never again" that characterise the hangover after a binge, nostalgia is
employed to smother memories of a recent period of bad behaviour, and over the
past few years we have been very very bad. Back in the credit-happy spending
binge, modernity was the thing: whether it was dotcomness or something being the
new something else. Life was on the up. We were encouraged to look forward with
greedy, materialistic, bulimic optimism for more stuff that we could buy and
more lifestyles of the rich and famous that we could emulate. Bling was the
thing and we were, to return to adland, urged to chuck out the chintz.

Now, like the drunken reveller, we have woken up surrounded by all our soulless
minimalism, and broken dreams of the end of boom and bust. Naturally we want to
blot out the recent past, with its "Things can only get better" soundtrack.
Instead, we invoke the 25-year rule and lose ourselves in television shows like
Ashes to Ashes, the reformation of Spandau Ballet and the resurrection of the
Tory Party. Like the New Romantics, suddenly, even they seem less ridiculous
than they did a couple of years ago.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 17, 2009
                                 First Edition

A cleansing upheaval;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 762 words


It has been a good 10 days for democracy. The tide of anger about the
publication of MPs' expenses is a cleansing convulsion. No, bear with us. Just
as capitalism needs recessions to shake out and renew itself, so democracy needs
periodic spasms of "vote the scoundrels out". As Winston Churchill said,
democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have
been tried.

And democracy certainly has its unattractive side. The greed and self-serving
hypocrisy of so many of our elected representatives, obviously. But also the
indiscriminate vindictiveness shown towards all MPs last week. There is
something worrying about popular prejudice when it feels so thoroughly
vindicated. The danger of appearing to confirm, in so many cases, that "they are
only in it for themselves", is that it suspends the need for further thought.
There is a lynch-mob mood around that is not prepared to accept that any MPs
work hard or can account satisfactorily for the public money that they spend.

There is a lack of proportion in the condemnation of MPs that have drawn
thousands of pounds for their second homes compared with the relatively
restrained attention paid to most of the bosses of failed banks. As we report
today, as many as 21 executives walked away from banks that were rescued by the
taxpayer with pension funds worth millions. This is not money that comes
directly from public funds, but their banks, which they ran into the ground,
have absorbed much more public money than MPs ever have.

But last week, the mood developed into a Ceausescu moment, when MPs realised how
hated they were. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, seemed to do well
enough on Tuesday to take firm action with his own party and the Shadow Cabinet.
By the end of the week, however, he was only salvaging a few unbroken and
portable pieces from the wreckage. The Prime Minister, meanwhile, has been swept
away and all but disappeared from sight. Even for a newspaper that has hitherto
sought to counter the conventional wisdom that it is all over for Gordon Brown,
it has become hard to see how he can avoid a humiliating end.

Labour's difficulties are compounded by our ComRes poll today. It suggests that
deposing Brown and replacing him with the easygoing Alan Johnson, who emerged
well from the expenses debacle, would not provide Labour with a short cut to a
happy ending - or even to a mitigation of record low popularity. And the poll
confirms that, although Mr Cameron has limited the damage to the Tories and the
Liberal Democrats are holding up, the parties that are not tainted by being
represented in the House of Commons are gaining ground.

If we add those that say they will not vote to those that intend to vote for the
minor parties, the winner of a general election tomorrow would be "None of the
above", on 40 per cent. Of those certain to vote, this rises to 64 per cent.
With the European Parliament elections next month comes a chance to cast a vote
of no confidence in the conventional parties. Another of ComRes's findings is
that fully 43 per cent of respondents say they are "very likely" to grab that
chance.

That is one reason why the publication of expenses has been good for democracy.
This newspaper has little time for the UK Independence Party. Indeed, we point
out the paradox that a party whose MEPs have a far worse record of abusing
expenses than Westminster MPs should benefit from the embarrassment of the House
of Commons. But The Independent on Sunday welcomes more votes in Europe for the
Liberal Democrats and the Greens, whose new leader, Caroline Lucas, is
interviewed on pages 30-31. And we note that, to date, fears that votes might
migrate to the British National Party appear to be unfounded.

Call us hopeless optimists if you will, but there are two more reasons for
looking on the bright side of the past 10 days. First, this triumph for the
Freedom of Information Act has ensured that MPs' finances will be cleaner than
ever in future. MPs know that they have to act, and if they are still uncertain
about what they have to do, we provide them with a ready-made 10-point clean-up
plan on pages 12 and 13.

The net effect of all this, by the time of the next general election, will be
severely to curtail the advantage enjoyed by incumbent MPs of whatever party. If
they are stripped of their communications allowance and their "Incidental
Expenses Provision", on which we report on page 4, and if voters are less
inclined to give sitting MPs the benefit of the doubt, that can only be good for
the power of democratic renewal.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 17, 2009
                                 First Edition

The State of Play:Two in five shun three main parties;
::: Electorate turns against politicians - and Labour slumps to a new low :::
Minor parties, including the Greens, could win record vote in Euro elections

BYLINE: Jane Merrick and Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words


Disenchantment among the British electorate with the three main parties is at a
record high after 10 days of revelations about the expenses claims of the
nation's MPs.

Two in five say they will refuse to vote or select one of the minor parties,
such as the Greens or Ukip, rather than support the Tories, Labour or the
Liberal Democrats, a ComRes poll shows.

The figures presented on the front page today are percentages for the entire
electorate, and so include the 23 per cent who say they will not vote in the
Westminster elections. They also include 17 per cent who will consider voting
for a minor party - and that could prove a big opportunity for the Greens and
Ukip at the forthcoming European polls, where they would be expected to do much
better than in the first-past-the-post system.

The 40 per cent for "none of the above" is compared with 31 per cent for the
Tories, 16 per cent for Labour and 13 per cent for the Lib Dems.

Among those absolutely certain to vote, the figures are even more stark - 64 per
cent back "none of the above". Of these, 54 per cent are unlikely to vote and 10
per cent back other parties. This would leave the Conservatives on 18 per cent,
Labour on 10 per cent and the Lib Dems on 8 per cent, suggesting there may be a
record low turnout at the next election.

On the traditional state of the parties measure, Labour slides five points on
last month to another record low - 21 per cent - with the Tories also slipping
five, though well out in front on 41 per cent. The Lib Dems remain at 18 per
cent. In an election, this would give David Cameron a majority of 152.

The slump of Labour and the Tories since the ComRes poll for The Independent
last month underscores how the main parties are being punished for the expenses
scandal. And a supplementary question asked of voters suggests that 43 per cent
will consider voting for a minor party in the European elections next month.
Other polls suggest that the Greens are set to double their 6 per cent of last
time round.

Andrew Hawkins, chief executive of ComRes, said: "I can't remember any time when
the minor parties were at anything like this level."

In an attempt to regain the initiative and restore trust, Gordon Brown will
today issue a veiled threat to ministers whose expenses are under investigation
that they could be sacked. The Prime Minister warns that any minister who is
found to have "morally" or technically broken the rules "will not serve" with
his government. He adds that Labour MPs found to be cheating will be deselected.

The Metropolitan Police has announced that it will this week consider launching
criminal investigations into MPs' expenses claims. Downing Street sources
refused to comment on the "scoping" inquiries into several MPs, including
Chancellor Alistair Darling, Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and the employment
minister Tony McNulty.

The Speaker, Michael Martin, will also come under intense pressure to carry the
can for the scandal, with friends suggesting he might announce his intention to
stand down before the next election to try to appease critics. A motion of no
confidence is expected to be tabled by MPs as early as tomorrow. His former
media adviser, John Stonborough, told The Sunday Times last night that Mr Martin
ruled with a "reign of terror" that allegedly held up a solution to the expenses
crisis.

Yesterday Martin Bell, the anti-sleaze campaigner, suggested he might stand for
election against an MP hit by the scandal, possibly the Speaker. There were
reports last night that even the Queen has made clear to Mr Brown her
unhappiness at the crisis. And an investigation by the IoS has discovered that
Britain's MPs are taking advantage of another allowances "loophole" that lets
them channel taxpayers' money into the network of local constituency
associations around the country. More than 100 MPs are using expenses to pay
their often impoverished constituency parties thousands of pounds a year for
facilities and services such as rent and secretarial help. The MPs, who include
Mr Cameron and nine members of his Shadow Cabinet, say they are paying for
legitimate business services and that the arrangements have the blessing of
House of Commons authorities.

In the ComRes poll, 50 per cent disagree with the statement that "most MPs are
honest and have been let down by the greed of a minority", while 46 per cent
agree. Six out of 10 voters believe Mr Cameron has dealt with the expenses issue
better than Mr Brown.

Yet there is bad news for Labour MPs hoping for a fresh start under a candidate
such as Alan Johnson, with just 32 per cent of people agreeing that the Health
Secretary would be a better Prime Minister than Mr Brown.

The Sunday Telegraph today printed more revelations, including the expenses of
the Tory MP Julian Lewis, who claimed more than £7,000 for redecorating his
second home and installing new kitchen appliances. The MP for New Forest East
denied any wrongdoing and said he would be "astonished" if an internal party
audit ordered by Mr Cameron would judge any of his claims unreasonable and
demand he return the cash.

Labour MP David Chaytor became the second in his party to be suspended,
following Elliot Morley's downfall last week, after he admitted claiming £13,000
in mortgage interest payments for a mortgage that had been repaid. Mr Chaytor
said he had made an "unforgivable error" and apologised unreservedly.

A ComRes poll of European voting intentions for the Sunday Express, commissioned
by Ukip, put the Tories on 28 per cent, Labour on 20 and the Lib Dems on 14.
Ukip were on 15, the Greens on 11 and the BNP on 4 per cent. And a BPIX/Mail on
Sunday survey of general election voting intentions put the Tories on 42 per
cent and Labour down at 20 per cent.

SPECIAL REPORT PAGES 8-13

COMMENT PAGES 39 & 41

CENTREPIECE PAGES 52-53

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

THE QUEEN 'IS DEEPLY TROUBLED'

LENGTH: 804 words


SIMON WALTERS

THE QUEEN has told Gordon Brown she is worried that the scandalous revelations
about MPs' expenses could damage Parliament.

She discussed the explosion of public outrage over the scandal in what is
understood to have been a candid exchange of views when she met the Prime
Minister for their weekly audience at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday.

Details of their conversation ñ which coveredthe vital need to restore trust in
Parliament ñ came to light as:

The identities of the shadowy figures who leaked the MPs' expenses were
revealed.

Speaker Michael Martin told friends he is ready to quit.

A shock new poll put the anti-EU UKIP on course to overtake Labour in next
month's European elections.

Public demands for criminal charges against at least five expenses-cheat MPs
grew.

Labour's overall poll rating fell to yet another all-time historic low ñ just 20
per cent.

A Labour MP was discovered to have claimed £125,000 expenses for a run-down
garage via his 'office' expenses.

Another Labour MP was suspended for claiming £13,000 for a mortgage that had
been paid off.

Neither Buckingham Palace nor Downing Street would comment on the conversation
between Mr Brown and the Queen, insisting that it remain confidential.

However, well-placed sources say the Queen is 'deeply troubled' by the scandal
and had made it clear that she feared it could inflict ' longlasting damage' to
the Commons.

'She won't discuss individual MPs but she feels this scandal has done a lot of
long-lasting damage,' said the source. 'She is aware the public feel repulsed by
this sort of thing. She is conscious there is a recession on.' An entirely
separate source told The Mail on Sunday that the Queen had expressed her
'disappointment' at the expenses disclosures.

Both insiders stressed that Her Majesty's comments were neither politically
partisan nor aimed at any particular MPs, but came out of concern for the
standing of Parliament.

Some observers have compared the backlash against MPs with the anger directed at
the Queen in the aftermath of Princess Diana's death. The future of the Monarchy
as an institution appeared briefly in jeopardy after the Royal Family's initial
lowkey response prompted unprecedented hostility towards the Queen.

On that occasion, Mr Brown's predecessor Tony Blair played a key role in
advising the Queen on how to react to public opinion. This week, amid a similar
volatile and rebellious public mood, it appears to have been the Queen's turn to
counsel the Government, advising Mr Brown on his own efforts to guide Parliament
through the expenses crisis that threatens its entire future.

The Prime Minister's spokesman refused to comment on their meeting, saying:
'Their discussions are private and we have no comment.'

A Buckingham Palace spokeswoman stuck to the same strict official line, saying:
'We never comment on what is said between the Queen and the Prime Minister
during their private audiences. The Queen and the Prime Minister were alone. No
one ever discusses what they discussed.'

Tory MP Nicholas Soames, a friend of Prince Charles, said: 'This business has
done grave damage to the standing of Parliament and it will take a long time for
it to recover trust and

confidence. You can smell the stench of death about this Government.

'Parliament is paralysed, the whole place has effectively closed down when there
are dangerous issues that this country must deal with, whether it is
Afghanistan, Al Qaeda or the Middle East peace process.

'The expenses system must be reformed but we must not become obsessed with it,
Parliament has important work to do.'

A BPIX poll for The Mail on Sunday emphasises the strength of public anger over
MPs who abuse their expenses. If voters had their way, five politicians ñ
ex-Minister Elliot Morley, Tory MP Andrew Mackay, Employment Minister Tony
McNulty, Transport Minister Geoff Hoon and Communities Secretary Hazel Blears ñ
would face criminal charges.

The Queen has had good relations with all 11 occupants of Downing Street since
she came to the throne in 1952. Most came to value her vast experience of State
affairs.

Apart from death of Diana, the closest to a constitutional clash between
Buckingham Palace and No10 came during the Thatcher years, when it was reported
that the Queen expressed sympathy for striking miners and fears that Mrs
Thatcher's policies were fuelling social unrest.

Although the Queen's role in Parliament is now largely ceremonial, it is the
Monarch who dissolves Parliament, and it is only convention that dictates that
she should do so only on the advice of the Prime Minister.

She also retains a key role in the passage of legislation. The Crown is expected
to act with 'the advice and consent' of the Commons and Lords, but again, it is
only convention which states that she will give Royal assent to Bills passed by
the two Houses.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday

BROWN IS NECK AND NECK...WITH UKIP

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 611 words


GORDON BROWN is heading for humiliation in the European elections as voters
desert his party in droves in protest over the expenses scandal, a BPIX poll for
The Mail on Sunday has found.

Labour's predicted share of the vote in the June 4 elections has fallen to just
17 per cent ñ neck and neck with the UK Independence Party (UKIP), which
advocates Britain's complete withdrawal from the EU.

Over the past tumultuous week in Westminster, Labour's expected Brussels vote
has crashed by six points from 23 per cent, while UKIP's has surged by seven
points.

This leaves the Prime Minister facing the politically catastrophic prospect of
being pushed into third place: Labour has never polled lower than UKIP.

Simultaneous falls for the Conservatives, down six points to 30 per cent, and
the Lib Dems, down one point to 15 ñ all compared with last weekend's BPIX
figures ñ suggest that voters are heeding Lord Tebbit's call for them to boycott
the three main parties in protest at MPs' expenses.

The latest figures on the national state of the parties brings equally grim news
for Mr Brown.

Labour's share of the vote has fallen to just 20 per cent ñ three points lower
than last week's tally, which was itself the lowest level since opinion polls
began in 1943.

David Cameron's Conservatives are on 42 per cent, a lead of 22 points, which is
enough to give him a Commons majority of 220 seats. The Lib Dems are on 15 per
cent.

BPIX pollster Anthony Wells said that the results were devastating for the Prime
Minister.

'Labour's national support is getting dangerously close to the teens, but it
would really start to become a "game-changer" if the Lib Dems moved into second
place,' he said.

'The European results are also fascinating. The rise in support for UKIP over
the past week suggests that people have followed Norman Tebbit's advice to
punish the three main parties, and UKIP is the socially acceptable way to do so.
By contrast, the figures for the British National Party are stuck on about five
per cent.'

Despite it being a cross-party issue, the Prime Minister has been personally
damaged by the expenses scandal.

Only 17 per cent of respondents think that Mr Brown has handled the problem
well, compared with a 53 per cent rating for Mr Cameron, who was quick to seize
the initiative by ordering his Shadow Cabinet allies to repay controversial sums
and demanding immediate scrutiny of all Tory claims.

An overwhelming 91 per cent agree with Mr Cameron's ruling that Tory MPs who
have abused their expenses and refuse to pay it back will be expelled from the
party.

A whopping 77 per cent think Mr Brown has handled the issue badly, against just
39 per cent for Mr Cameron.

Recent political convulsions, combined with the Government's collapse in
support, have combined to create a restless mood among the electorate.

A total of 38 per cent of people think that Mr Brown should dissolve Parliament
immediately and call an Election.

Just 16 per cent want him to wait until the last possible moment in June 2010.

The poll also reveals, perhaps surprisingly, that there is little support for a
cut in the number of MPs sitting in Parliament, with the highest figure ñ 15 per
cent ñ supporting the current total of 646.

There is also broad support for the current levels of pay.

Offered a choice of pay bands as 'appropriate' for an MP, the highest support
(16 per cent) is for between £60,000 and £69,999 a year ñ their current pay is
£64,000.

But there is strong backing for their expenses to be slashed from the current
high of up to £190,000 a year. A total of 60 per cent think that the sum should
be cut to less than £50,000.

ï BPIX interviewed 2,318 people between May 14-16.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 17, 2009

Comment: The right answer to public rage is a purge of the guilty: The decent
MPs must demand a clear out of the sleazy, both for their own sakes and to save
the reputation of Parliament

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1536 words


The significant split over sleaze is not between Labour and Tory, but between
the decent MPs and the indecent MPs. Consider the contrasting examples of
Margaret Moran and Kelvin Hopkins. They are both Labour MPs with roughly the
same size of majority who represent the people of Luton. There the similarities
end. Ms Moran, MP for Luton South, has been exposed as one of the most audacious
abusers of the second homes allowance. She took £ 22,500 out of the taxpayers'
pockets to treat the dry rot at a house in Southampton more than 100 miles away
from her constituency.

Mr Hopkins, MP for Luton North, commutes to and from Westminster rather than
claim any allowance for another home at all. He is among the parliamentary
angels; she is one of the parliamentary devils. In a just world, the likes of Ms
Moran ought to be out on her greedy arse and the likes of Mr Hopkins should be
able to carry on serving his constituents.

The world, especially the world of politics, is not always just. In a climate of
public wrath towards the House of Shame, the voters may be too blinded by anger
to discriminate between those MPs who have been milking the taxpayer and those
MPs who have never claimed a penny for plasma TVs, patio heaters, massage
chairs, phantom mortgages and all the scandalous rest of it. The great danger,
especially for Labour, is that the public is now in a mood to hold them all
culpable for the sins of some. The good will be scythed down with the bad. In
their righteous disgust with the scams perpetrated by some denizens of the
Chamber of Horrors, the voters are incandescent about the entire political
"establishment".

That this is a very potent threat is underlined by today's PoliticsHome poll,
highlights of which we publish in the Observer. The poll captures the fierce
intensity of public rage. More than a third of respondents say that the expenses
scandal makes them more likely to vote for a party that is not currently
represented in the House of Commons. More than a quarter say it has changed the
way they intend to vote at the Euro elections in early June. That is seismic. As
far as I am aware, it is unprecedented for a single event to have such a large
impact on voting intentions. The Tories and the Lib Dems may suffer from this
backlash, but the outlook is most ominous for Labour. It is Labour supporters
who say they are most likely to switch.

The poll suggests that the principal beneficiaries of this voter revolt will be
the Greens, the BNP and Ukip, all parties which don't have any members of
parliament. It will be rather perverse of voters to punish the sins of
Parliament by rewarding Ukip. That party is hardly a paragon of virtue. One of
the MEPs elected under Ukip's banner at the last Euro elections was later jailed
for benefit fraud. Ukip has had to kick out another of its MEPs after he was
charged with money laundering. As for the BNP, it is a party that is no stranger
to criminality. Yet many voters nevertheless seem intent on using them as a
handy scourge with which to flay the main parties. Labour is the most
vulnerable. The poll will feed the fears within the government's ranks that it
is conceivable that the Euro elections could place them fourth, behind the Lib
Dems and Ukip, a result that would be the most abject humiliation.

David Miliband got it right when the foreign secretary recently remarked that
"the politics of hate" thrive when voters become utterly alienated from the
mainstream parties. The only way back is for the political class to take
convincing steps that persuade the public that politicians fully grasp what has
been done wrong and are genuinely committed to putting it right. Michael Martin,
the pitiful Speaker, has shown himself utterly inadequate to this task. That
leaves responsibility with Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

In recent days, the three leaders have been competing to be seen as the one who
best comprehends public revulsion. Mr Clegg's Lib Dems have emerged from this
relatively unsleazed compared with the other parties. Chris Huhne's purchase of
a trouser press is little league compared with Labour and Tory expense claims
for mortgages that don't exist, two properties at once and the outrageous scam
of flipping. The Lib Dems can fairly claim that they were arguing for a clean up
of expenses when Labour and the Tories were until very recently conniving to try
to keep it all covered up. Gordon Brown tried to seize the initiative a
fortnight ago with his comedic gurning on YouTube. In the wake of that fiasco,
he has struggled to keep up with events, never mind get ahead of them.

The PoliticsHome poll finds that a majority of voters think that David Cameron
has handled the expenses scandal better than his rivals. That is testimony to
the Tory leader's tactical and presentational flair. Mr Cameron became
intolerant of the expenses rackets only once they were exposed. He became
vigorous on the issue only when all the revelations about Tory MPs and
chandeliers, helipads, moats and swimming pools started to ooze out. This
threatened to retoxify his brand by reviving the image of a privileged, selfish,
avaricious Conservative party, the very image that he has been trying to efface
from the voters' minds since he became leader.

David Cameron was a late mover on expenses. He's won plaudits because he sounded
robust and looked decisive when he did finally act. It was an effective piece of
theatre to name and shame errant Tory MPs, among them members of his shadow
cabinet. His insistence that all his MPs should repay unjustifiable claims left
the prime minister limping behind.

Andrew MacKay has been removed as a senior adviser to the Tory leader. Elliot
Morley and David Chaytor have been deprived of the Labour whip. Shahid Malik has
been suspended as a minister. There has been a shame-faced reversal in the flow
of traffic to the fees office. Where once MPs jostled to extract taxpayers'
money from the Commons cashpoint, now they are queueing to pay it back.

I have news for MPs. That is nowhere near enough. The voters' anger will not be
so easily assuaged. The prime minister and the Tory leader may be congratulating
themselves on how tough they've been, but their response is still far too
feeble. The politicians are a long way yet from finding a response which
appeases public fury. The voters are not to be bought off by Margaret Moran
paying back her dry rot bill only once it had been exposed and Hazel Blears
going on TV to wave a £ 13,000 cheque for HM Revenue.

Nor is their wrath deflected by Mr MacKay saying that he will start refunding
some of the huge sum, in excess of £ 100,000, that he claimed. The poll suggests
that more than three-quarters of voters aren't impressed by MPs paying back
money they should never have taken in the first place.

So what may help to convince the public that politicians are sincerely committed
to a fresh start? The most decisive finding of the poll is that more than four
out of five voters want any MP guilty of making excessive claims to be removed
as a candidate at the next general election. Whether voters identify themselves
as supporters of the Tories, Labour or the Lib Dems, they all say the same thing
by thumping majorities. They demand with one voice that sleazy MPs are booted
out.

That is good advice from the people and the party leaders should act on it and
urgently. The Commons needs to be given colonic irrigation. While they are at
it, an enema should also be stuck up the Lords. David Cameron can instruct his
new scrutiny committee to remove the Tory spivs and scam merchants. The
committee can be empowered to strike off the approved candidates list any Tory
MP found guilty of making unethical claims. On the Labour side, the party's
national executive committee will this week discuss a proposal to conduct a
clean-out. Gordon Brown should support this at once and ensure that there is a
tough mechanism for imposing deselection on the fiddlers and fraudsters on his
benches. This is especially imperative for Labour. Morality argues for it as
does sheer survival. The next election is going to be challenging enough for
Labour without the additional and crippling handicap of trying to defend seats
where the incumbent MP is irredeemably tainted.

Leaders may well be hesitant about ordering such a dramatic bleaching of their
parliamentary parties. They will fret that deselecting MPs will foment dissent
and cause division. So be it. That is a slight discomfort compared with the
scale of public rage. It is the only hope of rescuing the reputation of the
House of Commons, the most important institution of our democracy. If Gordon
Brown and David Cameron decline to take the scalpel to the dirty MPs, then the
clean MPs on all sides ought to rise up and demand surgery.

Their good names are being unjustly trashed by the bad behaviour of their sleazy
colleagues. Why should the reputable career of a Kelvin Hopkins be sacrificed
because of the disgrace of his next-door neighbour? Why should a whole
parliament suffer crucifixion in the media and contempt from the public? Before
it is too late, the decent members have to act to save themselves and Parliament
from the rotten MPs. It is time for a purge.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 17, 2009

Business & Media: Media:Media diary

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 513 words


A sorry tale to relate

A tricky business, having to address the MPs' expenses issue when you have
relatives involved. In the Mail, Edward Heathcoat Amory, who appears to have
dropped the family hyphen, was rather cruelly tasked with listing the excesses
of the speaker (which included "feathering the family nest") on the day after
the Telegraph exposed his brother, David Heathcoat-Amory MP, as having claimed £
380 for horse manure and, well, feathered the family nest. In Friday's Times,
columnist Alice Thomson, who is Edward's wife, pleaded for clemency for MPs'
wives in their "awful role", and urged readers to solely "pick on MPs" - people
like brother-in-law David, then. Oh, to be a fly on the wall at the next big
family Sunday lunch.

Splash down

The Times et al have been forced to follow the Telegraph's lead on the expenses
scandal which, given the bitter rivalry between the titles, cannot have been an
enjoyable experience. So some Telegraph journalists were amused to read the
Times's splash last Wednesday, which reported David Cameron's apology over the
conduct of his MPs. It was headlined: "Not our finest hour".

Gloves off at the Sun

A rare public punch-up between Sun contributors, after a low blow from columnist
Kelvin MacKenzie, left, forced the paper to issue an apology to boxing promoter
Frank Warren - who also pens an occasional column for the paper. MacKenzie had a
pop at Warren over his dispute with Joe Calzaghe, but retribution was swift and
a "clarification" appeared within 24 hours.

In camera?

At the launch of the BNP's European election manifesto last week, its leader
Nick Griffin, right, mounted a blistering attack on the BBC, that well-known
bastion of pinko lefties. "We, the British National Party, have been vilified by
the mass media - the BBC in particular - for decades," he declared, before
claiming: "You won't be hearing this on the BBC!" In fact, the BBC was carrying
his comments live on News 24, although it quickly cut away from the rally to
"breaking news". Perhaps the BNP Fuhrer. . . sorry, leader, failed to spot the
cameras?

Swedish message

A press release arrives from the UK Independence Party, which is demanding the
current expenses system be replaced with a more transparent alternative,
preferably by the introduction of: "a model similar to that of Sweden". UKIP
supporting the Swedish model? Surely some mistake.

Doing OK! is not enough

More blood-letting at Richard Desmond's OK! USA, which has been struggling of
late. Six staffers, including Katie Caperton, who was appointed editor-in-chief
two months ago - left the title last Monday, even though it sold more than
600,000 on newsstands the previous week. That is well above the 500,000 or so it
was averaging last year, but still far below Desmond's target. When he launched
OK! in the US in 2005, he set aside $100m for the project, but is burning
through that cash pile rapidly. Northern & Shell America made losses of £ 27.3m
in 2007, up from £ 18.1m the previous year. Sources in New York's media world
claim he could be losing up to $1m a week on the venture.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 17, 2009, Sunday

'YOU NEED GRIMSBY KNICKERS AND YOUR LONDON KNICKERS ';
 AMAZING EXPENSES RANT BY MP WIFE

BYLINE: DENNIS RICE

SECTION: Yorks Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 393 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNDER FIRE: Mitchell and missus DOUBLE TROUBLE: Linda says it's right
taxpayers cough up for MPs' underwear


THE wife of shamed MP Austin Mitchell has launched a bizarre defence of his
£41,000 expenses - which include claims for pants.

Channel 4 producer Linda MacDougall insisted it was right for taxpayers to foot
the bill for the Grimsby Labour MP's undies.

In an astonishing radio rant, she said: "You have to have your Grimsby knickers
and your London knickers - and never the twain shall meet."

She then backed a fellow MP's claim for a lavatory cleaner, saying: "We have to
have two loo-brushes. I can't carry one on the train from London to Grimsby
every Sunday night, can I?"

Linda revealed just how out of touch she is in an interview with BBC Five Live.

The telly exec said she only followed rules laid down in the Commons' Green
Book.

In another bewildering outburst, she said: "If you are the sort of person who
has a barbecue in each place, I suppose you might have a barbecue in each place
- in which case you have got to have a reasonable one that's not too expensive.
It says in the Green Book you are to have ordinary household goods - ordinary
potato-mashers, ordinary frying-pans, I suppose. And it's totally unfair to say
because you have to travel 200 miles every week you can't have one at each end
of the train line."

Linda also said she and the £64,766-a-year MP - who have a third home in Halifax
- own a "modest" two-bedroom flat in Westminster.

In fact, it is in a mansion block where similar pads regularly sell for £500,000
plus.

Linda said 74-year-old Mitchell's expenses have to cover rent as well as a
mortgage.

She added: "People in Grimsby might be surprised to hear that but in London you
seem to pay a rent the same as the rent you pay in Grimsby and pay the mortgage
on top."

Labour MP David Chaytor has since been suspended by Labour for claiming £13,000
on a mortgage he'd already paid off.

Linda's comments triggered fury from listeners and constituents. A Glasgow
doctor raged: " What planet are they on?"

And Grimsby supermarket worker Claire Reed, 37, said: " You'd think she'd just
apologise. But now she's just made it worse."

Labour slumped six points to an expected 17 per cent of the vote in the European
elections on June 4. Conservatives also dropped six to 30 per cent while UKIP
surge seven to 17 per cent, according to a BPIX poll.

peoplenews@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              182 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 1

HOUSE OF FRAUDS;
The parliamentary expenses scandal claimed its first scalps last week with the
resignations of a minister and an aide to David Cameron. Two Labour MPs were
also suspended after claiming for non-existent mortgages. How much lower can the
reputation of our leaders sink?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13,14

LENGTH: 4066 words


'Cheer up," said a Labour backbencher to his glum colleague nursing a pint of
bitter in a House of Commons bar last week.

Don't worry, mate, a lot of us have conservatories." The second MP shook his
head: "You haven't seen the size of my conservatory." Such laments were repeated
a hundred times in the Palace of Westminster last week as once-proud
parliamentarians contemplated the demolition of their careers and the trashing
of the Commons as an institution. Amid publication of the excesses and abuses of
MPs' expenses, the mother of parliaments stood revealed as the mother of all
fiddles.

Phantom mortgages, moat cleaning, antique rugs, £8,000 television sets,
gardening bills, horse manure, flipping, doubledipping and plain ripping off -
the politicians who lay down the laws of the land were shown to be all too
grasping and vain. Heads began to roll.

Shahid Malik, the justice minister, resigned pending an inquiry into the
peppercorn rent he was paying to a constituency landlord while claiming £66,000
on his London home. Elliot Morley, a senior backbencher, was stripped of the
Labour whip after "forgetting" that he had paid off his mortgage and improperly
claiming more than £16,000.

Yesterday brought more humiliation. Sir Gerald Kaufman, the veteran Labour MP,
had charged the taxpayer £1,851 for a rug imported from a New York antiques
centre and had tried to claim £8,865 for a plasma television set. Tam Dalyell,
the former Father of the House, had attempted to claim £18,000 for bookcases two
months before he retired as an MP.

More seriously, David Chaytor, a backbencher, was suspended from the
parliamentary Labour party after admitting an "unforgivable error" in claiming
£13,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. His constituents in Bury North
were aghast.

One said: "People have been jailed for less than that." Another added: "I think
they should be sacked. It's across the whole spectrum, it's everybody, not just
one party." Indeed it is. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, was forced to
sack Andrew Mackay, his senior political adviser, after he and his wife, a
fellow Tory MP, had claimed allowances for both their main and second homes.

Yesterday it emerged that Anthony Steen, a Tory grandee, had claimed tens of
thousands of pounds on his country estate, including the cost of a forestry
expert to inspect his trees. Like others, Steen merely blamed the system: "It is
not a question of feeling we have done something wrong. It is just the system
which is wrong." Two dozen MPs from all parties have paid back more than
£145,000 for expenses claims that do not stand up to public scrutiny - from
repairs to a swimming pool and designer furniture to mole hunting.

The scandal is tearing through Westminster like a tornado, even at cabinet
level.

Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, appears fatally compromised over her dubious
claims. Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, has become a national joke over
hers - oh, I've done nothing wrong, she breezes, but here's a cheque for
£13,000..

Both women now face the sack when Gordon Brown reshuffles the cabinet, which he
is expected to do after the European elections next month.

Voters are so outraged that MPs have become figures of ridicule and contempt.

One Tory MP said he went into his local butcher to buy a leg of lamb only to be
told: "I suppose you'll be charging this to the taxpayer." Other customers in
the shop began pointing and laughing, leaving the backbencher, who normally has
plenty to say for himself, speechless.

Julie Kirkbride, wife of the shamed Mackay, had a brick thrown through the
window of her Worcestershire constituency office. "This has been Westminster's
9/11," said one minister. "Not even a terrorist bomb in the Commons could have
quite the effect that this expenses scandal has had on the fabric of
parliament." This weekend the damage done is so grave that the holder of one of
the key posts in parliament is facing rebellion. Michael Martin, the Speaker of
the House of Commons, who oversees MPs' expenses and presides over Commons
proceedings, has lost support on all sides. Many MPs believe his failures in
handling the crisis have fatally undermined his position and some are preparing
a motion of no confidence that could force him to resign.

Douglas Carswell, a maverick Conservative backbencher leading the revolt, said:
"We have to rebuild a new kind of politics which is more transparent." Carswell
had voluntarily published all his expenses before the present furore erupted.

Others are resigning themselves to their political demise. Many Labour MPs whose
dodgy expenses claims have been revealed know they will now lose their seats at
the next general election. Tory grandees accused of using taxpayers' money to
improve their country estates may decide to give up the game rather than
confront the shame on the re-election trail.

Other members are just plain terrified.

The Commons bars are doing a roaring trade as MPs settle their nerves with a
stiff drink - also subsidised by the taxpayer. "People are partying like it is
Weimar Berlin," said one Labour MP. "You know an era is about to come to an end,
so you might as well enjoy the time you have left. Everybody is just dreading
the lunchtime telephone call from a journalist and those simple words, 'I'd like
to talk about your expenses'." LAST Monday attention turned to the Conservative
party. Its members had escaped the initial onslaught when The Daily Telegraph, a
Tory newspaper, began publishing details of MPs' expenses after obtaining
computerised files of all their claims since 2004. Labour ministers and
backbenchers had been the first to be exposed.

Last week it became clear that Tories were just as likely to abuse their
expenses as their often poorer Labour counterparts.

It emerged that David Willetts, the shadow universities secretary, nicknamed
"Two Brains" for his intelligence, could not change a lightbulb: instead he had
claimed £115 to have 25 of them changed at his second home in London.

Michael Gove, the shadow schools secretary, had claimed £7,000 on furniture,
spending a third of the money at a central London store owned by Lady Astor,
Cameron's mother-in-law.

Cameron, who was campaigning that day in Derbyshire, was appalled and began
pondering his response. On the train home his aides picked up word that worse
was to come the following morning. Douglas Hogg, the former agriculture
secretary, had claimed £2,000 for cleaning a moat on his Lincolnshire estate. It
threatened to undo all Cameron's efforts to portray the Conservatives as the
party of one nation, not the elite. "It was the moat that did it," said an aide.
"Dave decided then and there that it would have to be paid back. People may find
it hard to believe that he was genuinely angry, but he could see how this would
be seen by ordinary voters." This may well go down as a turning point in the
Conservative annals. It was the moment when Cameron, a man dismissed by critics
as slick but insubstantial, showed his true leadership qualities. He summoned
his shadow cabinet and told each of them they would have to repay any excessive
claims.

Then he addressed a meeting of the full parliamentary party where he told
backbenchers that anyone who failed to make the requisite repayments would
"cease to be a Conservative MP". He concluded with these words: "I was elected
by you to give a lead. I am doing just that." In the tea room afterwards there
were mutterings about a grandees' revolt. The rumour spread that Michael Ancram,
the aristocrat who claimed £14,000 a year in expenses while owning three
properties worth an estimated £8m, would lead the "refuseniks". Later - perhaps
after reading the inevitable angry e-mails from constituents - he backed down
and insisted he backed Cameron 100%.

At 3.30pm the Tory leader summoned journalists to a press conference where he
laid out his payback plan. The busy coffee shop in Portcullis House emptied as
MPs from all parties scurried to watch the performance on television.

Cameron itemised the expenses crimes of his shadow cabinet, naming each one and
saying how much they would repay and for what. He said he would pay back £680 to
the fees office for a claim made for "wisteria removal".

"People are right to be angry that some MPs have taken public money to pay for
things that, frankly, few can afford. You have been let down," he said.

Brown and Labour were left trailing. "It was majestic," said one Labour MP of
Cameron's performance. "If only Gordon could lead like that. This was Cameron's
clause 4 moment." He was referring to the time when a young Tony Blair scrapped
Labour's totemic commitment to state ownership and set the party on course for
power.

While Cameron sacked Mackay preemptively before newspapers reported the truth
about his expenses, Labour's response to allegations has been more sluggish.

It is understood that Labour whips knew there was a potential problem with
Morley's mortgage payments for up to a week before the Telegraph revealed the
truth. Yet he was disciplined only after the details were published.

The sight of Nick Brown, Labour's chief whip, delivering a shifty explanation in
front of the television cameras contrasted badly with Cameron's decisiveness.
Cameron, too, has set up an expenses scrutiny committee, dubbed the "star
chamber", which includes Ed Llewellyn, his chief of staff, and Patrick
McLaughlin, the chief whip. It will meet tomorrow to draw up a hit list of
Conservative MPs. If there are any cases of apparent fraud, the party leadership
is determined to discover them

before the press.

Ominously for Labour, Lord Ashcroft, the billionaire Tory donor who also manages
the party's target seat campaign for the general election, has been taking a
keen interest in the disclosures. When the full details of MPs' expenses are
finally published, Ashcroft plans to use auditors to comb through the files of
target Labour MPs to look for any discrepancies missed by the media. Labour
whips, on the other hand, report problems with getting decisions made at the
top. "Everything feels strangely dislocated," one MP said. "We do not know who
really is in charge."

There is a sense that many of the mea culpas-from government ministers to Tory
grandees and backbenchers - have been half-hearted. Malik stepped down as a
minister, yet still insisted that he was "as straight as they come" and his
claims were "one million per cent by the book".    Is one member of the public
observed: "With maths like     that, no wonder his expenses are f*****." Public
outrage was on full display on BBC's Question Time. The audience wanted blood.
On the panel was Margaret Beckett, a former Labour foreign secretary, who
claimed £72,537 over four years for work on her constituency home. She even
tried to get taxpayers to meet the cost of hanging baskets, plant tubs and
painting her summer house. Those claims had been rejected as having nothing to
do with her parliamentary work.

After listening to her attempts at justification, a member of the audience
asked: "Mrs Beckett, are you going to pay back the £72,000 that you have taken
after your mealy-mouthed answer trying to explain yourself?"

Beckett replied: "No, I'm not." As she tried to continue, the audience booed and
heckled. Someone cried out: "Do you think you're better than us?" It was not
long before some angry voters took revenge online. Don't Panic, a young design
group, filmed Hayden Prowse, its editor, travelling to the Rutland home of Alan
Duncan, a millionaire Tory MP who had claimed £7,000 expenses (and been paid
£4,000) for gardening.

Prowse proceeded to do some gardening for free "to save taxpayers' money". He
planted flowers in the shape of a large "£" sign in Duncan's lawn. He
"discovered" a "money tree" in the garden festooned with £10 notes and unearthed
a small treasure chest in a flower bed. "What's in here?" asked Prowse as a
colleague filmed him. "Oooh, taxpayers' money!" THE continuing scrutiny of the
affairs of our representatives will probably produce morerage than humour among
the public. Many MPs are still tempted to justify their abuse of expenses by
claiming they are low paid. Yet their salary of £64,766 puts them in the top 10%
of earners in the country- and more than 150 of them, including many with high
expenses claims, have additional jobs outside parliament.

A few are receiving tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds extra from
second jobs in the private sector, according to contracts obtained by The Sunday
Times. William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, has a contract with an
investment company under which he can claim £7,000 a day to attend business
meetings, plus £3,500 for "travelling time". He now says he intends to give up
all his work outside parliament.

Willetts is being paid more than £3,000 a day working for a pensions company. He
is also chairman of a technology company. Tony Baldry, the Conservative MP for
Banbury, has 10 paid jobs outside parliament. He works as the head of a London
barristers' chambers and also as a legal "arbitrator and mediator". In addition
he is chairman of a company investing in emerging economies and executive
partner in a film company. In parliament he claimed the maximum housing expenses
last year of £23,083.

Among the biggest earners on the Labour benches are the former ministers
Patricia Hewitt, Adam Ingram, Alan Milburn and Charles Clarke. Hewitt is earning
at least £150,000 a year from work outside parliament, while at the same time
receiving her MP's salary and £147,000 in total expenses. Ingram has outside
interests that pay him at least £145,000 on top of his MP's      salary. He not
only claims the maximum in second home allowance from the House of Commons, but
also employs his wife and his cousin's son on parliamentary expenses. In 2007-8
he claimed £53,000 in staffing allowances.

Milburn, a former leading cabinet minister under Blair, has outside earnings
that run to at least £80,000 on top of his parliamentary salary and the 162,589
he claimed in 2007-8 in parliamentary expenses. Clarke, who claimed

162,220 in expenses in 2007-8 asMP for Norwich South, earns between £35,000 and
£40,000 as consultant to a law firm called Beachcroft and further undisclosed
sums as an adviser to KPMG, the accountants, and Charles Street Securities, a
firm of investment bankers. He has not spoken in a parliamentary debate since
April last year.

However, the prime minister believes MPs are paid to concentrate on serving
their constituents. He has asked the committee on standards in public life to
look into the issue to avoid conflicts of interest and to reflect the fact that
MPs receive a parliamentary salary for a full-time job".

TOMORROW the action will move to the Commons chamber where Carswell, MP for
Harwich and Clacton, will lead the charge to unseat the Speaker. He is expected
to have at least a dozen names signed up to his motion of no confidence. No
Speaker in modern times has faced such a challenge to his authority (although
during the 15th and 16th centuries six of Martin's predecessors were beheaded
and one was murdered). It is understood that the Speaker has prepared a
threepage defence of his record

pointing out that, contrary to the critics' claims, he had in fact been a
champion of reform. Such words will fall on deaf ears among the hundreds of MPs
who privately now want him to go. If Martin digs his heels in, it is likely that
more senior figures will weigh in behind Carswell.

Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at Oxford University, believes Martin
will have to go, especially after attacking some individual MPs over their views
on expenses. "The Speaker's authority rests on the fact that he represents the
whole House of Commons, all MPs whatever their views," Bogdanor said. "It is
unprecedented in my opinion that he rebukes individual MPs because he doesn't
share their views. He's not a political leader; he's there to give all points of
view a hearing. I think once a Speaker has been criticised, he has been
undermined. In my view he's crippled."

Downing Street has again been divided over how to handle the crisis. But
yesterday it appeared that the prime minister was beginning to acknowledge that
Martin's departure is inevitable if the Tories and Liberal Democrats withdraw
their support.

Other MPs may be more concerned about their own fate as moves gather pace for
police inquiries into the abuse of expenses. A panel of senior prosecutors and
Scotland Yard officers will meet next week to decide what, if any, action to
take. If the authorities fail to act on prima facie cases of fraud, moves are
afoot to bring private prosecutions. Sir Paul Judge, multi-millionaire
businessmanwho is attempting to forge a new type of non-party politics, has said
he is willing to fund legal action.

While public opinion may want investigations for fraud, the system may be more
closely scrutinised over its tax treatment. Mike Truman, editor of Taxation
magazine, said that in addition to avoiding tax on second home expenses, MPs
also did not appear to be paying tax on trips from homes outside their
constituencies to Westminster.

Bob Spink, a former Tory MP who now represents UKIP, also alleged that many MPs
have used expenses to help to bankroll their local parties by overpaying for
office space and staff costs. Party accounts show that in some constituencies -
Conservative and Labour - the MP's expenses can be the biggest single source of
funds. MPs insist they pay a fair price for rent and offices services. Spink
said: "It's a scam and should be investigated."

MOST MPs feel their worst retribution will come at the ballot box. Voters are
disgusted and many seem to want a fresh start to clean up the mess. ComRes
survey on Friday found that 64% of people thought politicians shamed by the
expenses scandal should resign and 65% thought there should be an election as
soon as possible.

Brown is unlikely to agree, since he faces annihilation at the polls in the
present mood. YouGov poll on Friday showed that support for Labour has fallen to
22%, just one percentage point ahead of the Lib Dems. The Tories have a
commanding lead with 41%. Fringe parties such as UKIP and, more alarmingly, the
BNP, are poised to take advantage the general outrage at the main parties.

A number of MPs could face deselection by their local party. In Luton, Mahmood
Hussain, the Labour constituency chairman, said the possibility of deselecting
Margaret Moran had been discussed. Moran had claimed more than £20,000 treating
dry rot at her husband's home in Southampton, more than 100 miles away from her
constituency. She has since given the money back,     although she has not
apologised. James Gray, the Tory MP for Wiltshire North who is under fire for
claiming Remembrance Day wreaths on expenses, will be lucky to survive the wrath
of his grass roots members. He narrowly survived a previous deselection battle
over his caddish treatment of Sarah, his popular ex-wife. Mackay, MP for
Bracknell, Berkshire, may also be forced to jump. Some radical members of
Labour's ruling national executive committee have put forward a motion requiring
all sitting Labour MPs to undergo reselection votes.

Do not rule out a return to the Commons for Martin Bell, the former BBC
journalist who in 1997 beat Neil Hamilton, the "cash for questions" Tory, in
Tatton. Bell, who has recently returned from a charity trip to Somalia, said: "I
came back to London to discover that the real pirates are in Britain and that
the House of Commons is their mother ship."

Across the country voters are reassessing their MPs, asking simple questions:
are they honest, are they fair? Heather Brooke, the freedom of information
campaigner who began the process of uncovering MPs' expenses, believes her work
has boosted Britain's political system, not undermined it. " think it's
fantastic," she said. think people are really engaged in politics now. For the
first time in hundreds of years, people can see that it's not one law for MPs
and another law for everyone else."

That change of moodwas evident in Bury North where Chaytor, who claimed money
for his non-existent mortgage, faces an uphill task to retain constituents'
confidence and his majority of 2,926. David Nuttall, his Conservative rival for
the seat, made his point plainly yesterday on his blog: "I am always conscious
that it is not government money, it is the public's money, many of whom really
struggle to make ends meet and can well understand the anger that people feel
when they read the revelations that have come light in the past few days. "I
only hope that the damage that has been done to the standing and the trust of
politicians can be repaired." It is a task that could take years, maybe even
decades.

IN THIS SECTION

The public will not forgive or forget

EDITORIAL, P20 The eight weasel ways MPs avoid saying sorry DOMINIC

LAWSON, P20 Britain expects, but Brown fails to lead MARTIN IVENS, P21

How to clean up this mess

LABOUR PROPOSALS

Commons Committee on Members' Interests to look at past claims and propose
repayment if they are not consistent with the rules n Ban on 'flipping'
designation of second home (against which expenses can be claimed) within a
parliament unless personal circumstances change significantly n First and second
homes must be the same for MPs' expenses and capital gains tax. Unspecified cap
on claims for mortgage interest n Ban on claims for furniture, fixtures and
fittings until report by Committee on Standards in Public Life

TORY PROPOSALS

An immediate ban on all MPs claiming furniture, other household goods and daily
subsistence allowance. Only rent, mortgage interest, overnight hotel bills,
utility bills, service charges and council taxes can be claimed by Tory MPs n
Every claim made to the Commons fees office will be published immediately
online. Shadow cabinet claims online now; rest of MPs to follow as soon as
possible n No Conservative MP will be allowed to re-designate their first and
second homes for the purposes of the additional cost allowance (ACA) without
approval by the chief whip n Anyone selling a home for which mortgage interest
is currently paid for by the ACA must confirm they will pay capital gains tax on
it

LIBERAL DEMOCRAT PROPOSALS

Immediate ban on MPs buying property with their allowances, with only rent costs
being subsidised by the taxpayer n MPs who make capital gains on second homes
should pay back the proportion of the profit that has been subsidised by the
taxpayer n Restrict the accommodation allowance to rent, bills and council tax n
First and second home designation to be independently approved

DAVID CHAYTOR

Labour MP for Bury North What he didClaimed almost £13,000 in interest payments
on a mortgage that he had already paid off What he said He apologised for an
'unforgivable error', blaming his mistake on 'a time of great personal and
family stress' What happenedHe has been suspended from the parliamentary Labour
party, and has said he will repay the money

SHAHID MALIK

Labour MP for Dewsbury and minister for justice What he did Claimed £66,827
expenses in three years on his London home, while designating as his main home a
house he rented in Dewsbury at below market rates of less than £100 a week What
he said That he went 'one million per cent by the book' in his expenses claims
and that it was a 'non-stor y' What happenedA few hours later, he stepped down
as justice minister pending an inquiry into whether he has breached the
ministerial code

ANDREW MACKAY

Conser vative MP for Bracknell What he didDespite not having a home in his
constituency, he claimed more than £1,000 a month for a 'second home' in London
which he shares with his wife, Julie Kirkbride, another Tory MP. She also
claimed £900 a month on her constituency home in Bromsgrove What he said He
apologised for 'letting a lot of people down', but blamed the House of Commons
for approving the arrangement over eight years What happenedHe resigned as an
aide to David Cameron after a Tory review found his claims 'unacceptable'

ELLIOT MORLEY

Labour MP for Scunthorpe What he did Claimed more than £16,000 in interest
payments on a mortgage that was already paid off What he said He apologised for
making 'a mistake' but said that he did 'not believe any offence had been
committed' What happened He was sacked as the prime minister's adviser on
climate change and suspended from the parliamentary Labour party

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Martin oversees the House of Commons' expenses regime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 2

OF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 3585 words


The parliamentary expenses scandal claimed its first scalps last week with the
resignations of a minister and an aide to David Cameron. Two Labour MPs were
also suspended after claiming for non-existent mortgages. How much lower can the
reputation of our leaders sink?

'Cheer up," said a Labour backbencher to his glum colleague nursing a pint of
bitter in a House of Commons bar last week.

"You don't understand," replied the second MP. "My wife, she doesn't do budget.
It's the conservatory she ordered." The first MP said: "Don't worry, mate, a lot
of us have conservatories." The second MP shook his head: "You haven't seen the
size of my conservatory." Such laments were repeated a hundred times in the
Palace of Westminster last week as once-proud parliamentarians contemplated the
demolition of their careers and the trashing of the Commons as an institution.
Amid publication of the excesses and abuses of MPs' expenses, the mother of
parliaments stood revealed as the mother of all fiddles.

Phantom mortgages, moat cleaning, antique rugs, £8,000 television sets,
gardening bills, horse manure, flipping, doubledipping and plain ripping off -
the politicians who lay down the laws of the land were shown to be all too
grasping and vain. Heads began to roll.

Shahid Malik, the justice minister, resigned pending an inquiry into the
peppercorn rent he was paying to a constituency landlord while claiming £66,000
on his London home. Elliot Morley, a senior backbencher, was stripped of the
Labour whip after "forgetting" that he had paid off his mortgage and improperly
claiming more than £16,000.

Yesterday brought more humiliation. Sir Gerald Kaufman, the veteran Labour MP,
had charged the taxpayer £1,851 for a rug imported from a New York antiques
centre and had tried to claim £8,865 for a plasma television set. Tam Dalyell,
the former Father of the House, had attempted to claim £18,000 for bookcases two
months before he retired as an MP.

More seriously, David Chaytor, a backbencher, was suspended from the
parliamentary Labour party after admitting an "unforgivable error" in claiming
£13,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. His constituents in Bury North
were aghast.

One said: "People have been jailed for less than that." Another added: "I think
they should be sacked. It's across the whole spectrum, it's everybody, not just
one party." Indeed it is. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, was forced to
sack Andrew Mackay, his senior political adviser, after he and his wife, a
fellow Tory MP, had claimed allowances for both their main and second homes.

Yesterday it emerged that Anthony Steen, a Tory grandee, had claimed tens of
thousands of pounds on his country estate, including the cost of a forestry
expert to inspect his trees. Like others, Steen merely blamed the system: "It is
not a question of feeling we have done something wrong. It is just the system
which is wrong." Two dozen MPs from all parties have paid back more than
£145,000 for expenses claims that do not stand up to public scrutiny - from
repairs to a swimming pool and designer furniture to mole hunting.

The scandal is tearing through Westminster like a tornado, even at cabinet
level.

Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, appears fatally compromised over her dubious
claims. Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, has become a national joke over
hers - oh, I've done nothing wrong, she breezes, but here's a cheque for
£13,000..

Both women now face the sack when Gordon Brown reshuffles the cabinet, which he
is expected to do after the European elections next month.

Voters are so outraged that MPs have become figures of ridicule and contempt.

One Tory MP said he went into his local butcher to buy a leg of lamb only to be
told: "I suppose you'll be charging this to the taxpayer." Other customers in
the shop began pointing and laughing, leaving the backbencher, who normally has
plenty to say for himself, speechless.

Julie Kirkbride, wife of the shamed Mackay, had a brick thrown through the
window of her Worcestershire constituency office. "This has been Westminster's
9/11," said one minister. "Not even a terrorist bomb in the Commons could have
quite the effect that this expenses scandal has had on the fabric of
parliament." This weekend the damage done is so grave that the holder of one of
the key posts in parliament is facing rebellion. Michael Martin, the Speaker of
the House of Commons, who oversees MPs' expenses and presides over Commons
proceedings, has lost support on all sides. Many MPs believe his failures in
handling the crisis have fatally undermined his position and some are preparing
a motion of no confidence that could force him to resign.

Douglas Carswell, a maverick Conservative backbencher leading the revolt, said:
"We have to rebuild a new kind of politics which is more transparent." Carswell
had voluntarily published all his expenses before the present furore erupted.

Others are resigning themselves to their political demise. Many Labour MPs whose
dodgy expenses claims have been revealed know they will now lose their seats at
the next general election. Tory grandees accused of using taxpayers' money to
improve their country estates may decide to give up the game rather than
confront the shame on the re-election trail.

Other members are just plain terrified.

The Commons bars are doing a roaring trade as MPs settle their nerves with a
stiff drink - also subsidised by the taxpayer. "People are partying like it is
Weimar Berlin," said one Labour MP. "You know an era is about to come to an end,
so you might as well enjoy the time you have left. Everybody is just dreading
the lunchtime telephone call from a journalist and those simple words, 'I'd like
to talk about your expenses'." LAST Monday attention turned to the Conservative
party. Its members had escaped the initial onslaught when The Daily Telegraph, a
Tory newspaper, began publishing details of MPs' expenses after obtaining
computerised files of all their claims since 2004. Labour ministers and
backbenchers had been the first to be exposed.

Last week it became clear that Tories were just as likely to abuse their
expenses as their often poorer Labour counterparts.

It emerged that David Willetts, the shadow universities secretary, nicknamed
"Two Brains" for his intelligence, could not change a lightbulb: instead he had
claimed £115 to have 25 of them changed at his second home in London.

Michael Gove, the shadow schools secretary, had claimed £7,000 on furniture,
spending a third of the money at a central London store owned by Lady Astor,
Cameron's mother-in-law.

Cameron, who was campaigning that day in Derbyshire, was appalled and began
pondering his response. On the train home his aides picked up word that worse
was to come the following morning. Douglas Hogg, the former agriculture
secretary, had claimed £2,000 for cleaning a moat on his Lincolnshire estate. It
threatened to undo all Cameron's efforts to portray the Conservatives as the
party of one nation, not the elite. "It was the moat that did it," said an aide.
"Dave decided then and there that it would have to be paid back. People may find
it hard to believe that he was genuinely angry, but he could see how this would
be seen by ordinary voters." This may well go down as a turning point in the
Conservative annals. It was the moment when Cameron, a man dismissed by critics
as slick but insubstantial, showed his true leadership qualities. He summoned
his shadow cabinet and told each of them they would have to repay any excessive
claims.

Then he addressed a meeting of the full parliamentary party where he told
backbenchers that anyone who failed to make the requisite repayments would
"cease to be a Conservative MP". He concluded with these words: "I was elected
by you to give a lead. I am doing just that." In the tea room afterwards there
were mutterings about a grandees' revolt. The rumour spread that Michael Ancram,
the aristocrat who claimed £14,000 a year in expenses while owning three
properties worth an estimated £8m, would lead the "refuseniks". Later - perhaps
after reading the inevitable angry e-mails from constituents - he backed down
and insisted he backed Cameron 100%.

At 3.30pm the Tory leader summoned journalists to a press conference where he
laid out his payback plan. The busy coffee shop in Portcullis House emptied as
MPs from all parties scurried to watch the performance on television.

Cameron itemised the expenses crimes of his shadow cabinet, naming each one and
saying how much they would repay and for what. He said he would pay back £680 to
the fees office for a claim made for "wisteria removal".

"People are right to be angry that some MPs have taken public money to pay for
things that, frankly, few can afford. You have been let down," he said.

Brown and Labour were left trailing. "It was majestic," said one Labour MP of
Cameron's performance. "If only Gordon could lead like that. This was Cameron's
clause 4 moment." He was referring to the time when a young Tony Blair scrapped
Labour's totemic commitment to state ownership and set the party on course for
power.

While Cameron sacked Mackay preemptively before newspapers reported the truth
about his expenses, Labour's response to allegations has been more sluggish.

It is understood that Labour whips knew there was a potential problem with
Morley's mortgage payments for up to a week before the Telegraph revealed the
truth. Yet he was disciplined only after the details were published.

The sight of Nick Brown, Labour's chief whip, delivering a shifty explanation in
front of the television cameras contrasted badly with Cameron's decisiveness.
Cameron, too, has set up an expenses scrutiny committee, dubbed the "star
chamber", which includes Ed Llewellyn, his chief of staff, and Patrick
McLaughlin, the chief whip. It will meet tomorrow to draw up a hit list of
Conservative MPs. If there are any cases of apparent fraud, the party leadership
is determined to discover them before the press.

Ominously for Labour, Lord Ashcroft, the billionaire Tory donor who also manages
the party's target seat campaign for the general election, has been taking a
keen interest in the disclosures. When the full details of MPs' expenses are
finally published, Ashcroft plans to use auditors to comb through the files of
target Labour MPs to look for any discrepancies missed by the media. Labour
whips, on the other hand, report problems with getting decisions made at the
top. "Everything feels strangely dislocated," one MP said. "We do not know who
really is in charge." There is a sense that many of the mea culpas-from
government ministers to Tory grandees and backbenchers - have been half-hearted.
Malik stepped down as a minister, yet still insisted that he was "as straight as
they come" and his claims were "one million per cent by the book". As one member
of the public observed: "With maths like that, no wonder his expenses are
f*****." Public outrage was on full display on BBC's Question Time. The audience
wanted blood. On the panel was Margaret Beckett, a former Labour REPORTING TEAM
WW Continued from page 13 Jonathan Oliver, Richard Woods, Jon Ungoed-Thomas,
Steven Swinford, Georgia Warren, Alasdair Glennie foreign secretary, who claimed
£72,537 over four years for work on her constituency home. She even tried to get
taxpayers to meet the cost of hanging baskets, plant tubs and painting her
summer house. Those claims had been rejected as having nothing to do with her
parliamentary work. After listening to her attempts at justification, a member
of the audience asked: "Mrs Beckett, are you going to pay back the £72,000 that
you have taken after your mealy-mouthed answer trying to explain yourself?"
Beckett replied: "No, I'm not." As she tried to continue, the audience booed and
heckled. Someone cried out: "Do you think you're better than us?" It was not
long before some angry voters took revenge online. Don't Panic, a young design
group, filmed Hayden Prowse, its editor, travelling to the Rutland home of Alan
Duncan, a millionaire Tory MP who had claimed £7,000 expenses (and been paid
£4,000) for gardening. Prowse proceeded to do some gardening for free "to save
taxpayers' money".

He planted flowers in the shape of a large "£" sign in Duncan's lawn. He
"discovered" a "money tree" in the garden festooned with £10 notes and unearthed
a small treasure chest in a flower bed. "What's in here?" asked Prowse as a
colleague filmed him. "Oooh, taxpayers' money!" THE continuing scrutiny of the
affairs of our representatives will probably produce more rage than humour among
the public. Many MPs are still tempted to justify their abuse of expenses by
claiming they are low paid. Yet their salary of £64,766 puts them in the top 10%
of earners in the country- and more than 150 of them, including many with high
expenses claims, have additional jobs outside parliament. A few are receiving
tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds extra from second jobs in the
private sector, according to contracts obtained by The Sunday Times. William
Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, has a contract with an investment company
under which he can claim £7,000 a day to attend business meetings, plus £3,500
for "travelling time". He now says he intends to give up all his work outside
parliament. Willetts is being paid more than £3,000 a day working for a pensions
company. He is also chairman of a technology company. Tony Baldry, the
Conservative MP for Banbury, has 10 paid jobs outside parliament. He works as
the head of a London barristers' chambers and also as a legal "arbitrator and
mediator". In addition he is chairman of a company investing in emerging
economies and executive partner in a film company. In parliament he claimed the
maximum housing expenses last year of £23,083. Among the biggest earners on the
Labour benches are the former ministers Patricia Hewitt, Adam Ingram, Alan
Milburn and Charles Clarke. Hewitt is earning at least £150,000 a year from work
outside parliament, while at the same time receiving her MP's salary and
£147,000 in total expenses. Ingram has outside interests that pay him at least
£145,000 on top of his MP's salary. He not only claims the maximum in second
home allowance from the House of Commons, but also employs his wife and his
cousin's son on parliamentary expenses. In 2007-8 he claimed £53,000 in staffing
allowances. Milburn, a former leading cabinet minister under Blair, has outside
earnings that run to at least £80,000 on top of his parliamentary salary and the
£162,589 he claimed in 2007-8 in parliamentary expenses .

Clarke, who claimed £162,220 in expenses in 2007-8 asMP for Norwich South, earns
between £35,000 and £40,000 as a consultant to a law firm called Beachcroft and
further undisclosed sums as an adviser to KPMG, the accountants, and Charles
Street Securities, a firm of investment bankers. He has not spoken in a
parliamentary debate since April last year. However, the prime minister believes
MPs are paid to concentrate on serving their constituents. He has asked the
committee on standards in public life to look into the issue "to avoid conflicts
of interest and to reflect the fact that MPs receive a parliamentary salary for
a full-time job". TOMORROW the action will move to the Commons chamber where
Carswell, MP for Harwich and Clacton, will lead the charge to unseat the
Speaker. He is expected to have at least a dozen names signed up to his motion
of no confidence. No Speaker in modern times has faced such a challenge to his
authority (although during the 15th and 16th centuries six of Martin's
predecessors were beheaded and one was murdered). It is understood that the
Speaker has prepared a threepage defence of his recordpointing out that,
contrary to the critics' claims, he had in fact been a champion of reform. Such
words will fall on deaf ears among the hundreds of MPs who privately now want
him to go. If Martin digs his heels in, it is likely that more senior figures
will weigh in behind Carswell. Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at
Oxford University, believes Martin will have to go, especially after attacking
some individual MPs over their views on expenses. "The Speaker's authority rests
on the fact that he represents the whole House of Commons, all MPs whatever
their views," Bogdanor said. "It is unprecedented in my opinion that he rebukes
individual MPs because he doesn't share their views. He's not a political
leader; he's there to give all points of view a hearing. I think once a Speaker
has been criticised, he has been undermined. In my view he's crippled." Downing
Street has again been divided over how to handle the crisis .

But yesterday it appeared that the prime minister was beginning to acknowledge
that Martin's departure is inevitable if the Tories and Liberal Democrats
withdraw their support. Other MPs may be more concerned about their own fate as
moves gather pace for police inquiries into the abuse of expenses. A panel of
senior prosecutors and Scotland Yard officers will meet next week to decide
what, if any, action to take. If the authorities fail to act on prima facie
cases of fraud, moves are afoot to bring private prosecutions. Sir Paul Judge, a
multi-millionaire businessmanwho is attempting to forge a new type of non-party
politics, has said he is willing to fund legal action. While public opinion may
want investigations for fraud, the system may be more closely scrutinised over
its tax treatment. Mike Truman, editor of Taxation magazine, said that in
addition to avoiding tax on second home expenses, MPs also did not appear to be
paying tax on trips from homes outside their constituencies to Westminster. Bob
Spink, a former Tory MP who now represents UKIP, also alleged that many MPs have
used expenses to help to bankroll their local parties by overpaying for office
space and staff costs. Party accounts show that in some constituencies -
Conservative and Labour - the MP's expenses can be the biggest single source of
funds. MPs insist they pay a fair price for rent and offices services. Spink
said: "It's a scam and should be investigated." MOST MPs feel their worst
retribution will come at the ballot box. Voters are disgusted and many seem to
want a fresh start to clean up the mess. A ComRes survey on Friday found that
64% of people thought politicians shamed by the expenses scandal should resign
and 65% thought there should be an election as soon as possible. Brown is
unlikely to agree, since he faces annihilation at the polls in the present mood.
A YouGov poll on Friday showed that support for Labour has fallen to 22%, just
one percentage point ahead of the Lib Dems. The Tories have a commanding lead
with 41%. Fringe parties such as UKIP and, more alarmingly, the BNP, are poised
to take advantage of the general outrage at the main parties .

A number of MPs could face deselection by their local party. In Luton, Mahmood
Hussain, the Labour constituency chairman, said the possibility of deselecting
Margaret Moran had been discussed. Moran had claimed more than £20,000 treating
dry rot at her husband's home in Southampton, more than 100 miles away from her
constituency. She has since given the money back, although she has not
apologised. James Gray, the Tory MP for Wiltshire North who is under fire for
claiming Remembrance Day wreaths on expenses, will be lucky to survive the wrath
of his grass roots members. He narrowly survived a previous deselection battle
over his caddish treatment of Sarah, his popular ex-wife. Mackay, MP for
Bracknell, Berkshire, may also be forced to jump. Some radical members of
Labour's ruling national executive committee have put forward a motion requiring
all sitting Labour MPs to undergo reselection votes. Do not rule out a return to
the Commons for Martin Bell, the former BBC journalist who in 1997 beat Neil
Hamilton, the "cash for questions" Tory, in Tatton. Bell, who has recently
returned from a charity trip to Somalia, said: "I came back to London to
discover that the real pirates are in Britain and that the House of Commons is
their mothership .

" Across the country voters are reassessing their MPs, asking simple questions:
are they honest, are they fair? Heather Brooke, the freedom of information
campaigner who began the process of uncovering MPs' expenses, believes her work
has boosted Britain's political system, not undermined it. "I think it's
fantastic," she said. "I think people are really engaged in politics now. For
the first time in hundreds of years, people can see that it's not one law for
MPs and another law for everyone else." That change of moodwas evident in Bury
North where Chaytor, who claimed money for his non-existent mortgage, faces an
uphill task to retain constituents' confidence and his majority of 2,926. David
Nuttall, his Conservative rival for the seat, made his point plainly yesterday
on his blog: "I am always conscious that it is not government money, it is the
public's money, many of whom really struggle to make ends meet and I can well
understand the anger that people feel when they read the revelations that have
come to light in the past few days. "I only hope that the damage that has been
done to the standing and the trust of politicians can be repaired." It is a task
that could take years, maybe even decades. IN THIS SECTION W W The public will
not forgive or forget EDITORIAL, P20 The eight weasel ways MPs avoid saying
sorry DOMINIC LAWSON, P20 Britain expects, but Brown fails to lead MARTIN IVENS,
P21

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 3

HOUSE OF FRAUDS;
The parliamentary expenses scandal claimed its first scalps last week with the
resignations of a minister and an aide to David Cameron. Two Labour MPs were
also suspended after claiming for non-existent mortgages. How much lower can the
reputation of our leaders sink?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 3619 words


'Cheer up," said a Labour backbencher to his glum colleague nursing a pint of
bitter in a House of Commons bar last week.

"You don't understand," replied the second MP. "My wife, she doesn't do budget.
It's the conservatory she ordered." The first MP said: "Don't worry, mate, a lot
of us have conservatories." The second MP shook his head: "You haven't seen the
size of my conservatory." Such laments were repeated a hundred times in the
Palace of Westminster last week as once-proud parliamentarians contemplated the
demolition of their careers and the trashing of the Commons as an institution.
Amid publication of the excesses and abuses of MPs' expenses, the mother of
parliaments stood revealed as the mother of all fiddles.

Phantom mortgages, moat cleaning, antique rugs, £8,000 television sets,
gardening bills, horse manure, flipping, doubledipping and plain ripping off -
the politicians who lay down the laws of the land were shown to be all too
grasping and vain. Heads began to roll.

Shahid Malik, the justice minister, resigned pending an inquiry into the
peppercorn rent he was paying to a constituency landlord while claiming £66,000
on his London home. Elliot Morley, a senior backbencher, was stripped of the
Labour whip after "forgetting" that he had paid off his mortgage and improperly
claiming more than £16,000.

Yesterday brought more humiliation. Sir Gerald Kaufman, the veteran Labour MP,
had charged the taxpayer £1,851 for a rug imported from a New York antiques
centre and had tried to claim £8,865 for a plasma television set. Tam Dalyell,
the former Father of the House, had attempted to claim £18,000 for bookcases two
months before he retired as an MP.

More seriously, David Chaytor, a backbencher, was suspended from the
parliamentary Labour party after admitting an "unforgivable error" in claiming
£13,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. His constituents in Bury North
were aghast.

One said: "People have been jailed for less than that." Another added: "I think
they should be sacked. It's across the whole spectrum, it's everybody, not just
one party." Indeed it is. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, was forced to
sack Andrew Mackay, his senior political adviser, after he and his wife, a
fellow Tory MP, had claimed allowances for both their main and second homes.

Yesterday it emerged that Anthony Steen, a Tory grandee, had claimed tens of
thousands of pounds on his country estate, including the cost of a forestry
expert to inspect his trees. Like others, Steen merely blamed the system: "It is
not a question of feeling we have done something wrong. It is just the system
which is wrong." Last night MPs who had tried to block the disclosure of
expenses faced criticism as details of their own claims were revealed. David
Maclean, a former Conservative chief whip who introduced a bill that would have
exempted MPs from freedom of information laws, had spent thousands of pounds of
taxpayers' money renovating a family home that was subsequently sold for
£750,000.

Julian Lewis, another Tory, and two Labour MPs, David Clelland and Fraser Kemp,
who supported the bill, also made claims for several thousands of pounds under
the second home allowance. Kemp was reported last night as saying some of his
purchases had been made in error and he would be paying back some money.

Two dozen MPs from all parties have so far paid back more than £145,000 for
expenses claims that do not stand up to public scrutiny - from repairs to a
swimming pool and designer furniture to mole hunting.

The scandal is tearing through Westminster like a tornado, even at cabinet
level.

Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, appears fatally compromised over her dubious
claims. Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, has become a national joke over
hers - oh, I've done nothing wrong, she breezes, but here's a cheque for
£13,000.

Both women now face the sack when Gordon Brown reshuffles the cabinet, which he
is expected to do after the European elections next month.

Voters are so outraged that MPs have become figures of ridicule. One Tory MP
said he went into his local butcher to buy a leg of lamb only to be told: "I
suppose you'll be charging this to the taxpayer." Other customers began pointing
and laughing, leaving the backbencher, who normally has plenty to say for
himself, speechless..

Julie Kirkbride, wife of the shamed Mackay, had a brick thrown through the
window of her Worcestershire constituency office. "This has been Westminster's
9/11," said one minister. "Not even a terrorist bomb in the Commons could have
quite the effect that this expenses scandal has had on the fabric of
parliament." This weekend the damage done is so grave that the holder of one of
the key posts in parliament is facing rebellion. Michael Martin, the Speaker of
the House of Commons, who oversees MPs' expenses and presides over Commons
proceedings, has lost support on all sides. Many MPs believe his failures in
handling the crisis have fatally undermined his position and some are preparing
a motion of no confidence that could force him to resign.

Douglas Carswell, a maverick Conservative backbencher leading the revolt, said:
"We have to rebuild a new kind of politics which is more transparent." Carswell
had voluntarily published all his expenses before the present furore erupted.

Others are resigning themselves to their political demise. Many Labour MPs whose
dodgy expenses claims have been revealed know they will now lose their seats at
the next general election. Tory grandees accused of using taxpayers' money to
improve their country estates may decide to give up the game rather than
confront the shame on the re-election trail.

Other members are just plain terrified.

The Commons bars are doing a roaring trade as MPs settle their nerves with a
stiff drink - also subsidised by the taxpayer. "People are partying like it is
Weimar Berlin," said one Labour MP. "You know an era is about to come to an end,
so you might as well enjoy the time you have left. Everybody is just dreading
the lunchtime telephone call from a journalist and those simple words, 'I'd like
to talk about your expenses'." LAST Monday attention turned to the Conservative
party. Its members had escaped the initial onslaught when The Daily Telegraph, a
Tory newspaper, began publishing details of MPs' expenses after obtaining
computerised files of all their claims since 2004. Labour ministers and
backbenchers had been the first to be exposed.

Last week it became clear that Tories were just as likely to abuse their
expenses as their often poorer Labour counterparts.

It emerged that David Willetts, the shadow universities secretary, nicknamed
"Two Brains" for his intelligence, could not change a lightbulb: instead he had
claimed £115 to have 25 of them changed at his second home in London.

Michael Gove, the shadow schools secretary, had claimed £7,000 on furniture,
spending a third of the money at a central London store owned by Lady Astor,
Cameron's mother-in-law.

Cameron, who was campaigning that day in Derbyshire, was appalled and began
pondering his response. On the train home his aides picked up word that worse
was to come the following morning. Douglas Hogg, the former agriculture
secretary, had claimed £2,000 for cleaning a moat on his Lincolnshire estate. It
threatened to undo all Cameron's efforts to portray the Conservatives as the
party of one nation, not the elite. "It was the moat that did it," said an aide.
"Dave decided then and there that it would have to be paid back. People may find
it hard to believe that he was genuinely angry, but he could see how this would
be seen by ordinary voters." This may well go down as a turning point in the
Conservative annals. It was the moment when Cameron, a man dismissed by critics
as slick but insubstantial, showed his true leadership qualities. He summoned
his shadow cabinet and told each of them they would have to repay any excessive
claims.

Then he addressed a meeting of the full parliamentary party where he told
backbenchers that anyone who failed to make the requisite repayments would
"cease to be a Conservative MP". He concluded with these words: "I was elected
by you to give a lead. I am doing just that." In the tea room afterwards there
were mutterings about a grandees' revolt. The rumour spread that Michael Ancram,
the aristocrat who claimed £14,000 a year in expenses while owning three
properties worth an estimated £8m, would lead the "refuseniks". Later - perhaps
after reading the inevitable angry e-mails from constituents - he backed down
and insisted he backed Cameron 100%.

At 3.30pm the Tory leader summoned journalists to a press conference where he
laid out his payback plan. The busy coffee shop in Portcullis House emptied as
MPs from all parties scurried to watch the performance on television.

Cameron itemised the expenses crimes of his shadow cabinet, naming each one and
saying how much they would repay and for what. He said he would pay back £680 to
the fees office for a claim made for "wisteria removal".

"People are right to be angry that some MPs have taken public money to pay for
things that, frankly, few can afford. You have been let down," he said.

Brown and Labour were left trailing. "It was majestic," said one Labour MP of
Cameron's performance. "If only Gordon could lead like that. This was Cameron's
clause 4 moment." He was referring to the time when a young Tony Blair scrapped
Labour's totemic commitment to state ownership and set the party on course for
power.

While Cameron sacked Mackay preemptively before newspapers reported the truth
about his expenses, Labour's response to allegations has been more sluggish.

It is understood that Labour whips knew there was a potential problem with
Morley's mortgage payments for up to a week before the Telegraph revealed the
truth. Yet he was disciplined only after the details were published.

The sight of Nick Brown, Labour's chief whip, delivering a shifty explanation in
front of the television cameras contrasted badly with Cameron's decisiveness.
Cameron, too, has set up an expenses scrutiny committee, dubbed the "star
chamber", which includes Ed Llewellyn, his chief of staff, and Patrick
McLaughlin, the chief whip. It will meet tomorrow to draw up a hit list of
Conservative MPs. If there are any cases of apparent fraud, the party leadership
is determined to discover them before the press. Ominously for Labour, Lord
Ashcroft, the billionaire Tory donor who also manages the party's target seat
campaign for the general election, has been taking a keen interest in the
disclosures. When the full details of MPs' expenses are finally published,
Ashcroft plans to use auditors to comb through the files of target Labour MPs to
look for any discrepancies missed by the media. Labour whips, on the other hand,
report problems with getting decisions made at the top. "Everything feels
strangely dislocated," one MP said. "We do not know who really is in charge."
There is a sense that many of the mea culpas-from government ministers to Tory
grandees and backbenchers - have been half-hearted. Malik stepped down as a
minister, yet still insisted that he was "as straight as they come" and his
claims were "one million per cent by the book". As one member of the public
observed: "With maths like that, no wonder his expenses are f*****." Public
outrage was on full display on BBC's Question Time. The audience wanted blood.
On the panel was Margaret Beckett, a former Labour REPORTING TEAM WW Continued
from page 13 Jonathan Oliver, Richard Woods, Jon Ungoed-Thomas, Steven Swinford,
Georgia Warren, Alasdair Glennie foreign secretary, who claimed £72,537 over
four years for work on her constituency home. She even tried to get taxpayers to
meet the cost of hanging baskets, plant tubs and painting her summer house.
Those claims had been rejected as having nothing to do with her parliamentary
work. After listening to her attempts at justification, a member of the audience
asked: "Mrs Beckett, are you going to pay back the £72,000 that you have taken
after your mealy-mouthed answer trying to explain yourself?" Beckett replied:
"No, I'm not." As she tried to continue, the audience booed and heckled. Someone
cried out: "Do you think you're better than us?" It was not long before some
angry voters took revenge online. Don't Panic, a young design group, filmed
Hayden Prowse, its editor, travelling to the Rutland home of Alan Duncan, a
millionaire Tory MP who had claimed £7,000 expenses (and been paid £4,000) for
gardening. Prowse proceeded to do some gardening for free "to save taxpayers'
money". He planted flowers in the shape of a large "£" sign in Duncan's lawn. He
"discovered" a "money tree" in the garden festooned with £10 notes and unearthed
a small treasure chest in a flower bed. "What's in here?" asked Prowse as a
colleague filmed him. "Oooh, taxpayers' money!" THE continuing scrutiny of the
affairs of our representatives will probably produce more rage than humour among
the public. Many MPs are still tempted to justify their abuse of expenses by
claiming they are low paid. Yet their salary of £64,766 puts them in the top 10%
of earners in the country- and more than 150 of them, including many with high
expenses claims, have additional jobs outside parliament. A few are receiving
tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds extra from second jobs in the
private sector, according to contracts obtained by The Sunday Times. William
Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, has a contract with an investment company
under which he can claim £7,000 a day to attend business meetings, plus £3,500
for "travelling time". He now says he intends to give up all his work outside
parliament. Willetts is being paid more than £3,000 a day working for a pensions
company. He is also chairman of a technology company. Tony Baldry, the
Conservative MP for Banbury, has 10 paid jobs outside parliament. He works as
the head of a London barristers' chambers and also as a legal "arbitrator and
mediator". In addition he is chairman of a company investing in emerging
economies and executive partner in a film company. In parliament he claimed the
maximum housing expenses last year of £23,083. Among the biggest earners on the
Labour benches are the former ministers Patricia Hewitt, Adam Ingram, Alan
Milburn and Charles Clarke. Hewitt is earning at least £150,000 a year from work
outside parliament, while at the same time receiving her MP's salary and
£147,000 in total expenses. Ingram has outside interests that pay him at least
£145,000 on top of his MP's salary. He not only claims the maximum in second
home allowance from the House of Commons, but also employs his wife and his
cousin's son on parliamentary expenses. In 2007-8 he claimed £53,000 in staffing
allowances. Milburn, a former leading cabinet minister under Blair, has outside
earnings that run to at least £80,000 on top of his parliamentary salary and the
£162,589 he claimed in 2007-8 in parliamentary expenses. Clarke, who claimed
£162,220 in expenses in 2007-8 asMP for Norwich South, earns between £35,000 and
£40,000 as a consultant to a law firm called Beachcroft and further undisclosed
sums as an adviser to KPMG, the accountants, and Charles Street Securities, a
firm of investment bankers. He has not spoken in a parliamentary debate since
April last year. However, the prime minister believes MPs are paid to
concentrate on serving their constituents. He has asked the committee on
standards in public life to look into the issue "to avoid conflicts of interest
and to reflect the fact that MPs receive a parliamentary salary for a full-time
job". TOMORROW the action will move to the Commons chamber where Carswell, MP
for Harwich and Clacton, will lead the charge to unseat the Speaker. He is
expected to have at least a dozen names signed up to his motion of no
confidence. No Speaker in modern times has faced such a challenge to his
authority (although during the 15th and 16th centuries six of Martin's
predecessors were beheaded and one was murdered). It is understood that the
Speaker has prepared a threepage defence of his record pointing out that,
contrary to the critics' claims, he had in fact been a champion of reform. Such
words will fall on deaf ears among the hundreds of MPs who privately now want
him to go. If Martin digs his heels in, it is likely that more senior figures
will weigh in behind Carswell. Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at
Oxford University, believes Martin will have to go, especially after attacking
some individual MPs over their views on expenses. "The Speaker's authority rests
on the fact that he represents the whole House of Commons, all MPs whatever
their views," Bogdanor said. "It is unprecedented in my opinion that he rebukes
individual MPs because he doesn't share their views. He's not a political
leader; he's there to give all points of view a hearing. I think once a Speaker
has been criticised, he has been undermined. In my view he's crippled." Downing
Street has again been divided over how to handle the crisis. But yesterday it
appeared that the prime minister was beginning to acknowledge that Martin's
departure is inevitable if the Tories and Liberal Democrats withdraw their
support. Other MPs may be more concerned about their own fate as moves gather
pace for police inquiries into the abuse of expenses. A panel of senior
prosecutors and Scotland Yard officers will meet next week to decide what, if
any, action to take. If the authorities fail to act on prima facie cases of
fraud, moves are afoot to bring private prosecutions. Sir Paul Judge, a
multi-millionaire businessmanwho is attempting to forge a new type of non-party
politics, has said he is willing to fund legal action. While public opinion may
want investigations for fraud, the system may be more closely scrutinised over
its tax treatment. Mike Truman, editor of Taxation magazine, said that in
addition to avoiding tax on second home expenses, MPs also did not appear to be
paying tax on trips from homes outside their constituencies to Westminster. Bob
Spink, a former Tory MP who now represents UKIP, also alleged that many MPs have
used expenses to help to bankroll their local parties by overpaying for office
space and staff costs. Party accounts show that in some constituencies -
Conservative and Labour - the MP's expenses can be the biggest single source of
funds. MPs insist they pay a fair price for rent and offices services. Spink
said: "It's a scam and should be investigated." MOST MPs feel their worst
retribution will come at the ballot box. Voters are disgusted and many seem to
want a fresh start to clean up the mess. A ComRes survey on Friday found that
64% of people thought politicians shamed by the expenses scandal should resign
and 65% thought there should be an election as soon as possible. Brown is
unlikely to agree, since he faces annihilation at the polls in the present mood.
A YouGov poll on Friday showed that support for Labour has fallen to 22%, just
one percentage point ahead of the Lib Dems. The Tories have a commanding lead
with 41%. Fringe parties such as UKIP and, more alarmingly, the BNP, are poised
to take advantage of the general outrage at the main parties. A number of MPs
could face deselection by their local party. In Luton, Mahmood Hussain, the
Labour constituency chairman, said the possibility of deselecting Margaret Moran
had been discussed. Moran had claimed more than £20,000 treating dry rot at her
husband's home in Southampton, more than 100 miles away from her constituency.
She has since given the money back, although she has not apologised. James Gray,
the Tory MP for Wiltshire North who is under fire for claiming Remembrance Day
wreaths on expenses, will be lucky to survive the wrath of his grass roots
members. He narrowly survived a previous deselection battle over his caddish
treatment of Sarah, his popular ex-wife.

Mackay, MP for Bracknell, Berkshire, may also be forced to jump. Some radical
members of Labour's ruling national executive committee have put forward a
motion requiring all sitting Labour MPs to undergo reselection votes. Do not
rule out a return to the Commons for Martin Bell, the former BBC journalist who
in 1997 beat Neil Hamilton, the "cash for questions" Tory, in Tatton. Bell, who
has recently returned from a charity trip to Somalia, said: "I came back to
London to discover that the real pirates are in Britain and that the House of
Commons is their mother ship." Across the country voters are reassessing their
MPs, asking simple questions: are they honest, are they fair? Heather Brooke,
the freedom of information campaigner who began the process of uncovering MPs'
expenses, believes her work has boosted Britain's political system, not
undermined it. "I think it's fantastic," she said. "I think people are really
engaged in politics now. For the first time in hundreds of years, people can see
that it's not one law for MPs and another law for everyone else." That change of
moodwas evident in Bury North where Chaytor, who claimed money for his
non-existent mortgage, faces an uphill task to retain constituents' confidence
and his majority of 2,926. David Nuttall, his Conservative rival for the seat,
made his point plainly yesterday on his blog: "I am always conscious that it is
not government money, it is the public's money, many of whom really struggle to
make ends meet and I can well understand the anger that people feel when they
read the revelations that have come to light in the past few days. "I only hope
that the damage that has been done to the standing and the trust of politicians
can be repaired." It is a task that could take years, maybe even decades.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Martin oversees the House of Commons' expenses regime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 1

This is no time for a nervous Nellie

BYLINE: MARTIN IVENS

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1143 words


Hillary Clinton's television commercial during the Democratic leadership race
last year posed the big political question: "When the phone in the White House
rings at three o'clock in the morning, who do you trust to answer it?" America
gave her the unwelcome reply: "Barack Obama".

Morning, noon and night, a hotline is now ringing in every British political
leader's office, but it rings loudest at No 10. Public regard for politicians
was already low after 15 years of sleaze and spin. But the torrent of scandal
unleashed by the publication of MPs' expenses is overwhelming the Commons. The
voters are entitled to one great expectation: that the prime minister of this
country show leadership in a crisis.

Margaret Thatcher had her Falklands moment when she made a stand and fought for
the recovery of the islands. Tony Blair took command when the royal family lost
the plot amid the hysteria after the death of Princess Diana. It was and is
Gordon Brown's duty to get a grip before the moral authority of this parliament
and his government withers and dies.

In the latest PoliticsHome poll, MPs are rock bottom in popular esteem for all
occupations. This is a crisis for Labour, too: a YouGov poll for The Sun gives
the governing party its lowest ever national poll rating: 22%. In the European
elections it is challenged by UKIP for third place.

"No time for a novice," jeered Brown in mockery of David

Cameron - and the putative leadership challenger David Miliband - at the Labour
conference last year. This is no time for a nervous Nellie.

The parade of humiliation at Westminster - the admissions of guilt, the false
repentances, the lame excuses and the repayment of ill-gotten gains before the
television cameras - would be comical if it weren't so serious.

It's as if Evelyn Waugh's satirical report of a high-society revival meeting
from Vile Bodies had come to life. "Barely had Lady Everyman finished before the
Countess of Throbbing rose to confess her sins ... The Duchess of Stayle next
threw down her diamond and emerald tiara crying, 'A guilt offering', an example
which was quickly followed by the Countess of Circumference and Lady Brown until
a veritable rain of precious stones fell on the parquet flooring." For precious
stones read MPs' £1,000-plus cheques..

The Labour MP Tony Wright got the historical perspective spot on: "At various
times in our history we have had the Long Parliament, we've had the Rump
Parliament, we've had the Good Parliament, we've had the Addled Parliament. If
we are not careful we shall finish up with the Moat Parliament or the Manure
Parliament." Cracks about moats, manure and manor houses are clearly more
damaging to the rich of the Conservative party than Labour.

Cameron saw the danger and came out fighting. Stories about taxpayers' support
for maintaining grand country estates are toxic for his modernising brand. In
his press conference on Tuesday he took the initiative by forcing his shadow
cabinet to repay claims. "Politicians have done things that are unethical and
wrong. I don't care if they were in the rules - they were wrong." At last,
someone was speaking for England.

"He was quick, decisive and courageous." That was a former Labour minister, not
a sycophantic Tory, speaking. By forcing his own parliamentary aide, Andrew
MacKay, to resign (for double-claiming his housing allowances) before the story
was plastered all over the front pages, Cameron showed steel. In his speech to
the Scottish Conservative party on Friday, he rightly argued: "We cannot
convincingly talk to others until we put our own house in order." And what did
the PM do? For a fortnight his chief whip and confidant Nick Brown sat on the
story of the former minister, Elliot

Morley, who claimed £16,000 for a mortgage he had already paid off.

Only after Cameron acted did Brown discipline him.

Nick Clegg, too, is having "a good war". Openly contemptuous of Westminster's
fusty ways, the Liberal Democrat leader channels public anger. His lieutenant,
Vincent Cable, soars spotlessly above the dung heap. Yet both the Lib Dems and
the Tories may suffer from the general disillusionment in the European elections
on June 4.

Mischievous Lord Tebbit suggests voters should avoid the three main parties
because of their scandalous misuse of allowances: back UKIP or the Greens if you
agree with their views. Speaking for those who care about the workings of
democracy, Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at Oxford University, urges
the disaffected to "join the party that best reflects their political
convictions, and call for a vote of no confidence, deselecting any MP whom they
think has abused the system".

For that we need the parties to open up and adopt primary elections, on the US
model, to get rid of dead wood. As in the like-minded democracies of Canada and
Australia, MPs may have to accept stronger external supervision..

The man nominally in charge of the clattering train is the Commons Speaker,
Michael Martin. He is not up to the job. For all his vaunted working-class roots
he behaves like a Bourbon king: he has learnt nothing, forgotten nothing.

Had the Commons under his leadership opted for the Scottish parliamentary system
of transparency on expenses, at least the slate would have been wiped clean.
While defending the indefensible, the Speaker has nursed his grudges against
uncorrupt MPs such as Kate Hoey who challenge his authority. His old-fashioned
inverted snobbery, glaringly unpleasant towards his officials, is tasteless. He
forgot to defend parliament's real liberties when the police came calling for
Damian Green.

Tomorrow, independently minded MPs led by the Tory Douglas Carswell will attempt
to vote Martin out. If Nick Brown and his deputy, Tommy McAvoy, Martin's friend,
prop him up, the shame will rebound to the organ grinder behind this monkey, the
prime minister.

Brown should have saved MPs from themselves, and he could have saved himself. He
should have invited Cameron and Clegg down to Chequers long ago and hammered out
a deal for reform.

Instead of driving Clegg into Cameron's arms for a joint press conference on the
Gurkhas, he should have been on the doorstep at Downing Street with both younger
men, making a united stand to clean up politics.

Yet last Wednesday at prime minister's questions, when the scale of the disaster
was apparent, Brown couldn't help looking for another dividing line with the
leader of the opposition: he attacked payments on mortgage interest, of which
Cameron is the beneficiary. At a time of crisis, what the public wants is
political leadership, not politicking.

Gordon Brown has virtues. He is an intelligent man who kept his head in the
economic storm. But we expect something special from a prime minister, qualities
related to martial virtue. In battle the leader adopts the fierce mask of
command. The PM, alas, doesn't know how..

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We expect something special from Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 1

HOUSE OF FRAUDS;
The parliamentary expenses scandal claimed its first scalps last week with the
resignations of a minister and an aide to David Cameron. Two Labour MPs were
also suspended after claiming for non-existent mortgages. How much lower can the
reputation of our leaders sink?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17,18

LENGTH: 3763 words


'Cheer up," said a Labour backbencher to his glum colleague nursing a pint of
bitter in a House of Commons bar last week.

"You don't understand," replied the second MP. "My wife, she doesn't do budget.
It's the conservatory she ordered." The first MP said: "Don't worry, mate, a lot
of us have conservatories." The second MP shook his head: "You haven't seen the
size of my conservatory." Such laments were repeated a hundred times in the
Palace of Westminster last week as once-proud parliamentarians contemplated the
demolition of their careers and the trashing of the Commons as an institution.
Amid publication of the excesses and abuses of MPs' expenses, the mother of
parliaments stood revealed as the mother of all fiddles.

Phantom mortgages, moat cleaning, antique rugs, £8,000 television sets,
gardening bills, horse manure, flipping, doubledipping and plain ripping off -
the politicians who lay down the laws of the land were shown to be all too
grasping and vain. Heads began to roll.

Shahid Malik, the justice minister, resigned pending an inquiry into the
peppercorn rent he was paying to a constituency landlord while claiming £66,000
on his London home. Elliot Morley, a senior backbencher, was stripped of the
Labour whip after "forgetting" that he had paid off his mortgage and improperly
claiming more than £16,000.

Yesterday brought more humiliation. Sir Gerald Kaufman, the veteran Labour MP,
had charged the taxpayer £1,851 for a rug imported from a New York antiques
centre and had tried to claim £8,865 for a plasma television set. Tam Dalyell,
the former Father of the House, had attempted to claim £18,000 for bookcases two
months before he retired as an MP.

More seriously, David Chaytor, a backbencher, was suspended from the
parliamentary Labour party after admitting an "unforgivable error" in claiming
£13,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. His constituents in Bury North
were aghast.

One said: "People have been jailed for less than that." Another added: "I think
they should be sacked. It's across the whole spectrum, it's everybody, not just
one party." Indeed it is. David Cameron, the Conservative leader, was forced to
sack Andrew Mackay, his senior political adviser, after he and his wife, a
fellow Tory MP, had claimed allowances for both their main and second homes.

Yesterday it emerged that Anthony Steen, a Tory grandee, had claimed tens of
thousands of pounds on his country estate, including the cost of a forestry
expert to inspect his trees. Like others, Steen merely blamed the system: "It is
not a question of feeling we have done something wrong. It is just the system
which is wrong." Two dozen MPs from all parties have paid back more than
£145,000 for expenses claims that do not stand up to public scrutiny - from
repairs to a swimming pool and designer furniture to mole hunting.

The scandal is tearing through Westminster like a tornado, even at cabinet
level.

Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, appears fatally compromised over her dubious
claims. Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, has become a national joke over
hers - oh, I've done nothing wrong, she breezes, but here's a cheque for
£13,000..

Both women now face the sack when Gordon Brown reshuffles the cabinet, which he
is expected to do after the European elections next month.

Voters are so outraged that MPs have become figures of ridicule and contempt.

One Tory MP said he went into his local butcher to buy a leg of lamb only to be
told: "I suppose you'll be charging this to the taxpayer." Other customers in
the shop began pointing and laughing, leaving the backbencher, who normally has
plenty to say for himself, speechless.

Julie Kirkbride, wife of the shamed Mackay, had a brick thrown through the
window of her Worcestershire constituency office. "This has been Westminster's
9/11," said one minister. "Not even a terrorist bomb in the Commons could have
quite the effect that this expenses scandal has had on the fabric of
parliament." This weekend the damage done is so grave that the holder of one of
the key posts in parliament is facing rebellion. Michael Martin, the Speaker of
the House of Commons, who oversees MPs' expenses and presides over Commons
proceedings, has lost support on all sides. Many MPs believe his failures in
handling the crisis have fatally undermined his position and some are preparing
a motion of no confidence that could force him to resign.

Douglas Carswell, a maverick Conservative backbencher leading the revolt, said:
"We have to rebuild a new kind of politics which is more transparent." Carswell
had voluntarily published all his expenses before the present furore erupted.

Others are resigning themselves to their political demise. Many Labour MPs whose
dodgy expenses claims have been revealed know they will now lose their seats at
the next general election. Tory grandees accused of using taxpayers' money to
improve their country estates may decide to give up the game rather than
confront the shame on the re-election trail.

Other members are just plain terrified.

The Commons bars are doing a roaring trade as MPs settle their nerves with a
stiff drink - also subsidised by the taxpayer. "People are partying like it is
Weimar Berlin," said one Labour MP. "You know an era is about to come to an end,
so you might as well enjoy the time you have left. Everybody is just dreading
the lunchtime telephone call from a journalist and those simple words, 'I'd like
to talk about your expenses'." LAST Monday attention turned to the Conservative
party. Its members had escaped the initial onslaught when The Daily Telegraph, a
Tory newspaper, began publishing details of MPs' expenses after obtaining
computerised files of all their claims since 2004. Labour ministers and
backbenchers had been the first to be exposed.

Last week it became clear that Tories were just as likely to abuse their
expenses as their often poorer Labour counterparts.

It emerged that David Willetts, the shadow universities secretary, nicknamed
"Two Brains" for his intelligence, could not change a lightbulb: instead he had
claimed £115 to have 25 of them changed at his second home in London.

Michael Gove, the shadow schools secretary, had claimed £7,000 on furniture,
spending a third of the money at a central London store owned by Lady Astor,
Cameron's mother-in-law.

Cameron, who was campaigning that day in Derbyshire, was appalled and began
pondering his response. On the train home his aides picked up word that worse
was to come the following morning. Douglas Hogg, the former agriculture
secretary, had claimed £2,000 for cleaning a moat on his Lincolnshire estate. It
threatened to undo all Cameron's efforts to portray the Conservatives as the
party of one nation, not the elite. "It was the moat that did it," said an aide.
"Dave decided then and there that it would have to be paid back. People may find
it hard to believe that he was genuinely angry, but he could see how this would
be seen by ordinary voters." This may well go down as a turning point in the
Conservative annals. It was the moment when Cameron, a man dismissed by critics
as slick but insubstantial, showed his true leadership qualities. He summoned
his shadow cabinet and told each of them they would have to repay any excessive
claims.

Then he addressed a meeting of the full parliamentary party where he told
backbenchers that anyone who failed to make the requisite repayments would
"cease to be a Conservative MP". He concluded with these words: "I was elected
by you to give a lead. I am doing just that." In the tea room afterwards there
were mutterings about a grandees' revolt. The rumour spread that Michael Ancram,
the aristocrat who claimed £14,000 a year in expenses while owning three
properties worth an estimated £8m, would lead the "refuseniks". Later - perhaps
after reading the inevitable angry e-mails from constituents - he backed down
and insisted he backed Cameron 100%.

At 3.30pm the Tory leader summoned journalists to a press conference where he
laid out his payback plan. The busy coffee shop in Portcullis House emptied as
MPs from all parties scurried to watch the performance on television.

Cameron itemised the expenses crimes of his shadow cabinet, naming each one and
saying how much they would repay and for what. He said he would pay back £680 to
the fees office for a claim made for "wisteria removal".

"People are right to be angry that some MPs have taken public money to pay for
things that, frankly, few can afford. You have been let down," he said.

Brown and Labour were left trailing. "It was majestic," said one Labour MP of
Cameron's performance. "If only Gordon could lead like that. This was Cameron's
clause 4 moment." He was referring to the time when a young Tony Blair scrapped
Labour's totemic commitment to state ownership and set the party on course for
power.

While Cameron sacked Mackay preemptively before newspapers reported the truth
about his expenses, Labour's response to allegations has been more sluggish.

It is understood that Labour whips knew there was a potential problem with
Morley's mortgage payments for up to a week before the Telegraph revealed the
truth. Yet he was disciplined only after the details were published.

The sight of Nick Brown, Labour's chief whip, delivering a shifty explanation in
front of the television cameras contrasted badly with Cameron's decisiveness.
Cameron, too, has set up an expenses scrutiny committee, dubbed the "star
chamber", which includes Ed Llewellyn, his chief of staff, and Patrick
McLaughlin, the chief whip. It will meet tomorrow to draw up a hit list of
Conservative MPs. If there are any cases of apparent fraud, the party leadership
is determined to discover them before the press. Ominously for Labour, Lord
Ashcroft, the billionaire Tory donor who also manages the party's target seat
campaign for the general election, has been taking a keen interest in the
disclosures. When the full details of MPs' expenses are finally published,
Ashcroft plans to use auditors to comb through the files of target Labour MPs to
look for any discrepancies missed by the media. Labour whips, on the other hand,
report problems with getting decisions made at the top. "Everything feels
strangely dislocated," one MP said. "We do not know who really is in charge."
There is a sense that many of the mea culpas-from government ministers to Tory
grandees and backbenchers - have been half-hearted. Malik stepped down as a
minister, yet still insisted that he was "as straight as they come" and his
claims were "one million per cent by the book".

As one member of the public observed: "With maths like that, no wonder his
expenses are f*****." Public outrage was on full display on BBC's Question
REPORTING TEAM Jonathan Oliver, Richard Woods, Jon Ungoed-Thomas, Steven
Swinford, Georgia Warren, Alasdair Glennie WW Continued from page 17 Time. The
audience wanted blood. On the panel was Margaret Beckett, a former Labour
foreign secretary, who claimed £72,537 over four years for work on her
constituency home. She even tried to get taxpayers to meet the cost of hanging
baskets, plant tubs and painting her summer house. Those claims had been
rejected as having nothing to do with her parliamentary work. After listening to
her attempts at justification, a member of the audience asked: "Mrs Beckett, are
you going to pay back the £72,000 that you have taken after your mealy-mouthed
answer trying to explain yourself?" Beckett replied: "No, I'm not." As she tried
to continue, the audience booed and heckled. Someone cried out: "Do you think
you're better than us?" It was not long before some angry voters took revenge
online. Don't Panic, a young design group, filmed Hayden Prowse, its editor,
travelling to the Rutland home of Alan Duncan, a millionaire Tory MP who had
claimed £7,000 expenses (and been paid £4,000) for gardening. Prowse proceeded
to do some gardening for free "to save taxpayers' money". He planted flowers in
the shape of a large "£" sign in Duncan's lawn.

He "discovered" a "money tree" in the garden festooned with £10 notes and
unearthed a small treasure chest in a flower bed. "What's in here?" asked Prowse
as a colleague filmed him. "Oooh, taxpayers' money!" THE continuing scrutiny of
the affairs of our representatives will probably produce more rage than humour
among the public. Many MPs are still tempted to justify their abuse of expenses
by claiming they are low paid. Yet their salary of £64,766 puts them in the top
10% of earners in the country- and more than 150 of them, including many with
high expenses claims, have additional jobs outside parliament. A few are
receiving tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds extra from second jobs in
the private sector, according to contracts obtained by The Sunday Times.

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, has a contract with an investment
company under which he can claim £7,000 a day to attend business meetings, plus
£3,500 for "travelling time". He now says he intends to give up all his work
outside parliament. Willetts is being paid more than £3,000 a day working for a
pensions company. He is also chairman of a technology company. Tony Baldry, the
Conservative MP for Banbury, has 10 paid jobs outside parliament. He works as
the head of a London barristers' chambers and also as a legal "arbitrator and
mediator". In addition he is chairman of a company investing in emerging
economies and executive partner in a film company. In parliament he claimed the
maximum housing expenses last year of £23,083. on the Labour benches are the
former ministers Patricia Hewitt, Adam Ingram, Alan Milburn and Charles Clarke.
Hewitt is earning at least £150,000 a year from work outside parliament, while
at the same time receiving her MP's salary and £147,000 in total expenses.
Ingram has outside interests that pay him at least £145,000 on top of his MP's
salary.

He not only claims the maximum in second home allowance from the House of
Commons, but also employs his wife and his cousin's son on 2007-8 he claimed
£53,000 in staffing allowances. Milburn, a former leading cabinet minister under
Blair, has outside earnings that run to at least £80,000 on top of his
parliamentary salary and the £162,589 he claimed in 2007-8 in parliamentary
expenses. Clarke, who claimed £162,220 in expenses in 2007-8 asMP for Norwich
South, earns between £35,000 and £40,000 as a consultant to a law firm called
Beachcroft and further undisclosed sums as an adviser to KPMG, the accountants,
and of investment bankers. He has not spoken in a parliamentary debate since
April last year. However, the prime minister believes MPs are paid to
concentrate on serving their constituents. He has asked the committee on
standards in public life to look into the issue "to avoid conflicts of interest
and to reflect the fact that MPs receive a parliamentary salary for a full-time
job". TOMORROW the action will move to the Commons chamber where Carswell, MP
for the charge to unseat the Speaker. He is expected to have at least a dozen
names signed up to his motion of no confidence .

No Speaker in modern times has faced such a challenge to his authority (although
during the 15th and 16th centuries six of Martin's predecessors were beheaded
and one was murdered). It is understood that the Speaker has prepared a
threepage defence of his record pointing out that, contrary to the critics'
claims, he had in fact been a champion of reform. Such words will fall on deaf
ears among the hundreds of MPs who privately now want him to go. If Martin digs
his heels in, it is likely that more senior figures will weigh in behind
Carswell. Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at Oxford University,
believes Martin will have to go, especially after attacking some individual MPs
over their views on expenses. "The Speaker's authority rests on the fact that he
represents the whole House of Commons, all MPs whatever their views," Bogdanor
said. "It is unprecedented in my opinion that he rebukes individual MPs because
he doesn't share their views. He's not a political leader; he's there to give
all points of view a hearing. I think once a Speaker has been criticised, he has
been undermined. In my view he's crippled.

" Downing Street has again been divided over how to handle the crisis. But
yesterday it appeared that the prime minister was beginning to acknowledge that
Martin's departure is inevitable if the Tories and Liberal Democrats withdraw
their support. Other MPs may be more concerned about their own fate as moves
gather pace for police inquiries into the abuse of expenses. A panel of senior
prosecutors and Scotland Yard officers will meet next week to decide what, if
any, action to take. If the authorities fail to act on prima facie cases of
fraud, moves are afoot to bring private prosecutions. Sir Paul Judge, a
multi-millionaire businessmanwho is attempting to forge a new type of non-party
politics, has said he is willing to fund legal action. While public opinion may
want investigations for fraud, the system may be more closely scrutinised over
its tax treatment. Mike Truman, editor of Taxation magazine, said that in
addition to avoiding tax on second home expenses, MPs also did not appear to be
paying tax on trips from homes outside their constituencies to Westminster. Bob
Spink, a former Tory MP who now represents UKIP, also alleged that many MPs have
used expenses to help to bankroll their local parties by overpaying for office
space and staff costs. Party accounts show that in some constituencies -
Conservative and Labour - the MP's expenses can be the biggest single source of
funds. MPs insist they pay a fair price for rent and offices services. Spink
said: "It's a scam and should be investigated." MOST MPs feel their worst
retribution will come at the ballot box.

Voters are disgusted and many seem to want a fresh start to clean up the mess. A
ComRes survey on Friday found that 64% of people thought politicians shamed by
the expenses scandal should resign and 65% thought there should be an election
as soon as possible. Brown is unlikely to agree, since he faces annihilation at
the polls in the present mood. A YouGov poll on Friday showed that support for
Labour has fallen to 22%, just one percentage point ahead of the Lib Dems. The
Tories have a commanding lead with 41%. Fringe parties such as UKIP and, more
alarmingly, the BNP, are poised to take advantage of the general outrage at the
main parties. A number of MPs could face deselection by their local party. In
Luton, Mahmood Hussain, the Labour constituency chairman, said the possibility
of deselecting Margaret Moran had been discussed .

Moran had claimed more than £20,000 treating dry rot at her husband's home in
Southampton, more than 100 miles away from her constituency. She has since given
the money back, although she has not apologised. James Gray, the Tory MP for
Wiltshire North who is under fire for claiming Remembrance Day wreaths on
expenses, will be lucky to survive the wrath of his grass roots members. He
narrowly survived a previous deselection battle over his caddish treatment of
Sarah, his popular ex-wife. Mackay, MP for Bracknell, Berkshire, may also be
forced to jump. Some radical members of Labour's ruling national executive
committee have put forward a motion requiring all sitting Labour MPs to undergo
reselection votes. Do not rule out a return to the Commons for Martin Bell, the
former BBC journalist who in 1997 beat Neil Hamilton, the "cash for questions"
Tory, in Tatton. Bell, who has recently returned from a charity trip to Somalia,
said: "I came back to London to discover that the real pirates are in Britain
and that the House of Commons is their mother ship." Across the country voters
are reassessing their MPs, asking simple questions: are they honest, are they
fair? Heather Brooke, the freedom of information campaigner who began the
process of uncovering MPs' expenses, believes her work has boosted Britain's
political system, not undermined it. "I think it's fantastic," she said. "I
think people are really engaged in politics now. For the first time in hundreds
of years, people can see that it's not one law for MPs and another law for
everyone else .

" That change of moodwas evident in Bury North where Chaytor, who claimed money
for his non-existent mortgage, faces an uphill task to retain constituents'
confidence and his majority of 2,926. David Nuttall, his Conservative rival for
the seat, made his point plainly yesterday on his blog: "I am always conscious
that it is not government money, it is the public's money, many of whom really
struggle to make ends meet and I can well understand the anger that people feel
when they read the revelations that have come to light in the past few days. "I
only hope that the damage that has been done to the standing and the trust of
politicians can be repaired." It is a task that could takeyears, maybe even
decades. LABOUR PROPOSALS n Commons Committee on Members' Interests to look at
past claims and propose repayment if they are not consistent with the rules n
Ban on 'flipping' designation of second home (against which expenses can be
claimed) within a parliament unless personal circumstances change significantly
n First and second homes must be the same for MPs' expenses and capital gains
tax. Unspecified cap on claims for mortgage interest n Ban on claims for
furniture, fixtures and fittings until report by Committee on Standards in
Public Life TORY PROPOSALS n An immediate ban on all MPs claiming furniture,
other household goods and daily subsistence allowance.

Only rent, mortgage interest, overnight hotel bills, utility bills, service
charges and council taxes can be claimed by Tory MPs n Every claim made to the
Commons fees office will be published immediately online. Shadow cabinet claims
online now; rest of MPs to follow as soon as possible How to clean up this mess
n No Conservative MP will be allowed to re-designate their first and second
homes for the purposes of the additional cost allowance (ACA) without approval
by the chief whip n Anyone selling a home for which mortgage interest is
currently paid for by the ACA must confirm they will pay capital gains tax on it
LIBERAL DEMOCRAT PROPOSALS n Immediate ban on MPs buying property with their
allowances, with only rent costs being subsidised by the taxpayer n MPs who make
capital gains on second homes should pay back the proportion of the profit that
has been subsidised by the taxpayer n Restrict the accommodation allowance to
rent, bills and council tax n First and second home

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Martin oversees the House of Commons' expenses regime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Let the BNP speak - and drown in its own poison

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 666 words


Guess what song is Nick Griffin's ring tone. I was standing next to the British
National party leader in a BBC green room last week when his mobile phone rang.
Cue chiming guitar - it was Sweet Home Alabama. You guessed Ebony and Ivory,
didn't you? No, what Nick had blaring out of his phone was moderate, acceptable
racism - a paean to the segregationist governor of Alabama and two-time
presidential candidate George Wallace (who, before he died, rather movingly
apologised to black people for his hideous policies).

It is sort of okay to play Sweet Home Alabama in polite company, a catchy howl
of disenfranchised redneck southern anguish. There is no mention of black people
in the song, it's all in Lynyrd Skynyrd's semi-coherent good ol' boy subtext. It
is, I think, how Griffin would like to see the BNP now - incorrigible,
anti-Establishment, un-PC, telling a few home truths. Fifteen or 20 years ago I
suspect his ring tone would have been by Wagner, and before that the Horst
Wessell song. Except they didn't have ring tones then, obviously.

It is being said that the BNP, along with UKIP, is likely to be one of the main
beneficiaries of public fury over the MPs' expenses scandal. Indeed, Griffin
said to me, shortly before his interview, that the front page of that morning's
Telegraph was worth three or four extra seats for his party.

I don't quite understand the logic of this. Our MPs are corrupt and venal - so
let's take it out on the blacks? But Griffin has been very canny in
repositioning his party as a sort of all-purpose anti-Establishment front,
rather than as a slightly less intellectual version of the Sturmabteilung. He
has been abetted in this policy by all those despised mainstream politicians who
join hands and plead that you not vote for the BNP, by local councillors who
refuse to work with democratically elected BNP members, by television
interviewers who simply bark insults at Griffin when he appears on news
programmes and by the thick-as-mince middle-class lefties bellowing, "No
platform for raaaaaacists," every time the BNP stages a meeting.

As soon as the BNP is engaged, however, the poison begins to leak out and we
hear the truth. Last week, on the day of its manifesto launch, Griffin was
skewered by his fabulously stupid comments about British Asian people not really
being British, a position which is not merely impolite and unfair, but
illogical. He had made those remarks six years previously but he could not quite
bring himself to disavow them, because they are at the heart of the rubbish his
party believes.

Griffin the man is shrewd and articulate. There is no doubt that he has managed
to secure the angry support of some white working-class British people, a
tranche of the population that has been neglected by the mainstream parties and
by Labour in particular. There is some truth to the BNP's claims that poorly
paid whites seem to find themselves at the back of the queue for everything. And
beyond the racism there is much in the party's socially right-wing but
economically left-wing manifesto which finds accord with a subsection of the
population which mistrusts stockbrokers and estate agents almost as much as it
mistrusts homosexuals.

But even the BNP's biggest vote-winner in recent years - attacking Islam - is a
case of expediency and opportunism. It should not be forgotten that the earliest
supporters in this country of radical Islam were the far right, Griffin
prominent among them. Back in the 1980s the Ayatollah Khomeini and Nick Griffin
shared rather more than a mutual, ideological dislike of Jews. They also shared
a dislike of international capitalism, the USA, gender equality, homosexuals and
liberal democracy. There is not much in the BNP's domestic manifesto today with
which Hizb ut-Tahrir would find fault.

The only reason the BNP dislikes Islam now is that it is practised largely by
people with darkish-coloured skins. If that intellectual position is good enough
for you, then by all means vote for them.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 17, 2009
                                   Edition 1

This is no time for a nervous Nellie

BYLINE: MARTIN IVENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1313 words


Hillary Clinton's television commercial during the Democratic leadership race
last year posed the big political question: "When the phone in the White House
rings at three o'clock in the morning, who do you trust to answer it?" America
gave her the unwelcome reply: "Barack Obama." Morning, noon and night, a hotline
is now ringing in every British political leader's office, but it rings loudest
at No 10. Public regard for politicians was already low after 15 years of sleaze
and spin. But the torrent of scandal unleashed by the publication of MPs'
expenses is overwhelming the Commons.

The voters are entitled to one great expectation: that the prime minister of
this country show leadership in a crisis.

Margaret Thatcher had her Falklands moment when she made a stand and fought for
the recovery of the islands.

Tony Blair took command when the royal family lost the plot amid the hysteria
after the death of Princess Diana. It was and is Gordon Brown's duty to get a
grip before the moral authority of this parliament and his government withers
and dies. In the latest Politics- Home poll, MPs are rock bottom in popular
esteem for all occupations. This is a crisis for Labour, too: a YouGov poll for
The Sun gives the governing party its lowest ever national poll rating: 22%. In
the European elections it is challenged by UKIP for third place.

"No time for a novice," jeered Brown in mockery of David Cameron - and the
putative leadership challenger David Miliband - at the Labour conference last
year. This is no time for a nervous Nellie.

The parade of humiliation at Westminster - the admissions of guilt, the false
repentances, the lame excuses and the repayment of ill-gotten gains before the
television cameras - would be comical if it weren't so serious.

It's as if Evelyn Waugh's satirical report of a high-society revival meeting
from Vile Bodies had come to life. "Barely had Lady Everyman finished before the
Countess of Throbbing rose to confess her sins, and in a voice broken with
emotion disclosed the hitherto unverified details of the parentage of the
present earl ... The Archbishop of Canterbury, who up to now had remained
unmoved by the general emotion, then testified that at Eton in the Eighties he
and Sir James Brown ... The Duchess of Stayle next threw down her diamond and
emerald tiara crying, 'A guilt offering', an example which was quickly followed
by the Countess of Circumference and Lady Brown until a veritable rain of
precious stones fell on the parquet flooring." For precious stones read MPs'
£1,000-plus cheques.

The drama will soon move to angry constituency parties and, in some outrageous
cases, the law courts. There is an awful warning from Italy about
underestimating the anger of voters. The mani pulite, or clean hands, scandals
of the 1990s led to the demise of the ruling parties and the end of the First
Republic.

Granted, our politicians aren't guilty of gangsterism - though peers who
accepted cash for amendments should have been driven out of public life - but
they are playing with fire. A recession on and we simply expect fair play here.

The Labour MP Tony Wright got the historical perspective spot on: "At various
times in our history we have had the Long Parliament, we've had the Rump
Parliament, we've had the Good Parliament, we've had the Addled Parliament.

If we are not careful we shall finish up with the Moat Parliament or the Manure
Parliament." Cracks about moats, manure and manor houses are clearly more
damaging to the rich of the Conservative party than Labour. Cameron saw the
danger and came out fighting. Stories about taxpayers' support for maintaining
grand country estates are toxic for his modernising brand. In his press
conference on Tuesday he took the initiative by forcing his shadow cabinet to
repay claims. "Politicians have done things that are unethical and wrong. I
don't care if they were in the rules - they were wrong." At last, someone was
speaking for England.

"He was quick, decisive and courageous." That was a former Labour minister, not
a sycophantic Tory, speaking.

By forcing his own parliamentary aide, Andrew MacKay, to resign (for
double-claiming his housing allowances) before the story was plastered all over
the front pages, Cameron showed steel. In his speech to the Scottish
Conservative party on Friday, he rightly argued: "We cannot convincingly talk to
others until we put our own house in order." And what did the PM do? For a
fortnight his chief whip and confidant Nick Brown sat on the story of the former
minister, Elliot Morley, who claimed £16,000 for a mortgage he had already paid
off. Prompt action by Brown might have calmed the hysteria.

Nick Clegg, too, is having a good war.

Openly contemptuous of Westminster's fusty ways, the Liberal Democrat leader
channels public anger. His lieutenant, Vincent Cable, soars spotlessly above the
dung heap. Yet the political mainstream may suffer from the general
disillusionment in the European elections on June 4.

Mischievous Lord Tebbit suggests voters should avoid the three main parties
because of their scandalous misuse of allowances. Back UKIP or the Greens, I
suppose, if you agree with their views.

But speaking for those who want reform, Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government
at Oxford University, urges the disaffected to "join the party that best
reflects their political convictions, and call for a vote of no confidence,
deselecting any MP whom they think has abused the system".

For that the parties would have to open up and adopt primary elections, on the
US model, to get rid of dead wood. The like-minded democracies of Canada and
Australia also make their MPs accept external supervision.

The man nominally in charge of the clattering train is the Commons Speaker,
Michael Martin. He is not up to the job. For all his vaunted working-class roots
he behaves like a reactionary Bourbon king: he has learnt nothing, forgotten
nothing.

He has learnt nothing from the failure of his every attempt to defend bad old
practices. Had the Commons under his leadership opted for the Scottish
parliamentary system of transparency on expenses, at least the slate would have
been wiped clean. While defending the indefensible, the Speaker has nursed his
grudges against uncorrupt MPs such as Kate Hoey who challenge his authority.

His old-fashioned inverted snobbery, glaringly unpleasant towards his officials,
is tasteless. He forgot to defend parliament's real liberties when the police
came calling for Damian Green.

Tomorrow, independently minded MPs led by the Tory Douglas Carswell will attempt
to vote Martin out. If Nick Brown and his deputy, Tommy McAvoy, Martin's friend,
prop him up, the shame will rebound to the organ grinder behind this monkey, the
prime minister. Brown should have saved MPs from themselves, and he could have
saved himself. He should have invited Cameron and Clegg down to Chequers long
ago and hammered out a deal for reform. He tried to bounce his own unworkable
solution on them at the last moment. Instead of driving Clegg into Cameron's
arms for a joint press conference on the Gurkhas, he should have been on the
doorstep at Downing Street with both younger men, making a united stand to clean
up politics.

Yet last Wednesday at prime minister's questions, when the scale of the disaster
was apparent, Brown couldn't help looking for another dividing line with the
leader of the opposition: he attacked payments on mortgage interest, of which
Cameron is the beneficiary. At a time of crisis, what the public wants is
political leadership, not politicking.

Gordon Brown has virtues. He is an intelligent man who kept his head in the
economic storm. But we expect something special from a prime minister, a quality
related to martial virtue. In battle the leader adopts the fierce mask of
command.

The PM, alas, doesn't know how..

'THE SPEAKER BEHAVES LIKE A REACTIONARY BOURBON KING'

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

QUEEN: SORT IT, BROWN

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Marco Giannangeli and Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 711  words


THE Queen is to tell Gordon Brown to get his house in order over the expenses
scandal engulfing Westminster.

As further shameful details of MPs' claims emerged yesterday, royal insiders
said Her Majesty was "furious" at the damage being done to the reputation of
Parliament.

She will tell the Prime Minister he needs to act decisively to prevent the row
becoming a fullblown constitutional crisis.

High on the agenda will be the fate of Commons Speaker Michael Martin, whose
petulant handling of the expenses row has been widely criticised.

Royal sources said Mr Brown would be on the receiving end of "an extremely
uncomfortable" meeting at his regular audience with the Queen on Tuesday.

One said last night: "It's fair to say that the Queen is livid at the way things
are being handled.

"Parliament is the seat of modern democracy and to have supposedly honourable
members tarnish its reputation to this degree is unforgivable. Mr Brown is
likely to be subjected to an uncomfortable and prolonged meeting."

Some Opposition MPs have already expressed a desire for the Queen, who
technically appoints the Speaker, to intervene in removing him to prevent a
constitutional crisis.

Sources said she was unlikely to act against him directly but could raise her
concerns with Mr Brown.

Mr Martin is already facing unprecedented Parliamentary attempts to remove him.
Westminster sources last night said he could be forced out as early as this
week.

The Queen is known for her dislike of financial largesse, especially during the
current recession. Last week it was revealed she would be funding the cost of
Prince Harry's fi rst offi cial engagement to the US, rather than allow
taxpayers to foot the bill.

Although Buckingham Palace's offi cial spokesman refused to comment, royal
author Hugo Vickers said last night: "It's clear that the Queen will be feeling
angry at what has been emerging. The public mood surrounding these revelations
is very clear, and she will be refl ecting this when she tells him to put his
house in order.

"Also, there is the very serious issue of what the rest of the world is
thinking. As head of state, the Queen carries the United Kingdom's reputation
with her when she travels."

Another issue is said to be the socalled "contamination" of her Privy Council, a
collection of advisers taken from senior members of both Houses of Parliament
and the Church.

Earlier this week one of its members, former agriculture minister Elliot Morley,
had the Labour whip withdrawn after he was revealed as one of the worst abusers
of the system.

He had continued to claim GBP 16,000 in mortgage interest after the loan was
paid off. Other privy counsellors criticised over their expenses include Home
Secretary Jacqui Smith, Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon and Communities Secretary
Hazel Blears.

"The Queen is particularly upset by the fact that so many members of the Privy
Council have been caught with their snouts in the trough, " one insider revealed
last night. The Prime Minister will try to seize the initiative today by
pledging to de-select Labour MPs found guilty of wrongdoing.

Yesterday the Bury North MP David Chaytor also had the Labour whip withdrawn
after claiming GBP 13,000 in expenses on a mortgage that had been paid off. An
opinion poll shows millions of voters are planning to desert the main parties in
disgust at next month's European and local elections, with the minor parties set
to pick up a record 35 per cent of the ballot.

The ComRes poll commissioned b y the UK Independence Party put the Conservatives
on 28 per cent, Labou r on 23, UKIP on 15, the Lib Dems on 14 and the Greens on
11. The BNP attracted four per cent support, while other parties mopped up a
further five per cent.

The survey also showed 73 per cent support for Britain taking back control of
its borders from the EU.

Tory leader David Cameron used a party election broadcast on Friday to issue an
apology for the conduct o f Tory MPs who abused the system.

He said: "I am sorry it has come to this. You are right to be angry that some of
the people you elected are taking your money to buy things fe w people can
afford.

"I don't care if these things were within the rules. They were wrong."

Former Tory Party chairman Lord Tebbit yesterday likened some MPs to benefits
cheats.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 2nd Edition

Furious Queen demands action;
Brown to be told he must put his House in order

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 549  words


THE QUEEN is to tell Gordon Brown to get his House in order over the expenses
scandal that is engulfing Westminster.

As further shameful details of MPs' claims emerged yesterday, royal insiders
said Her Majesty was "furious" at the damage being done to the reputation of
Parliament.

She will tell the Prime Minister he needs to act decisively to prevent a
full-blown constitutional crisis.

High on the agenda at his regular audience with the Queen on Tuesday will be the
fate of Commons Speaker Michael Martin, whose petulant handling of the row has
been widely criticised.

Royal sources said Mr Brown would be on the receiving end of "an extremely
uncomfortable" meeting.

One said last night: "It's fair to say that the Queen is livid at the way things
are being handled.

"Parliament is the seat of democracy and to have supposedly honourable members
tarnish its reputation to this degree is unforgivable. Mr Browns likely to be
subjected to an uncomfortable and prolonged meeting." Some Opposition MPs have
already expressed a desire for the Queen, who technically appoints the Speaker,
to intervene in removing him.

Sources said she was unlikely to act against him directly but could raise her
concerns with Mr Brown.

The Queen is known for her dislike of financial largesse, especially during the
current recession. Last week it was revealed she will fund the cost of Prince
Harry's fi rst offi cial engagement to the US, rather than allow taxpayers to
foot the bill.

Although Buckingham Palace's offi cial spokesman refused to comment, royal
author Hugo Vickers said last night: "It's clear that the Queen will be feeling
angry at what has been emerging. There is also the very serious issue of what
the rest of the world is thinking. As head of state, the Queen carries the
United Kingdom's reputation with her when she travels."

One insider revealed last night: "The Queen is particularly upset by the fact
that so many members of the Privy Council [made up from senior MPs, Lords and
members of the Church] have been caught with their snouts in the trough."

Last week one Privy Counsellor, former agriculture minister Elliot Morley, had
the Labour whip withdrawn after it was revealed that he had continued to claim
GBP 16,000 in mortgage interest payments after the loan was paid off. Others
criticised over expenses include Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, Transport
Secretary Geoff Hoon and Communities Secretary Hazel Blears.

Last night Gordon Brown pledged to crack down on expenses cheat ministers,
warning that any found guilty of breaking the rules would be axed. He said: "I
am appalled and angered b y this week's revelations. Action must be swift and
comprehensive."

An opinion poll shows that millions of voters are planning to desert the main
parties in disgust at next month's European and local elections, with the minor
parties set to pick up a record 35 per cent of the ballot.

The ComRes poll commissioned by the UK Independence Party put the Conservatives
on 28 per cent, Labour on 23, UKIP on 15, the Lib Dems on 14 and the Greens on
11. The BNP attracted four per cent support, while other parties mopped up a
further five per cent.

In a party political broadcast on Friday Tory leader David Cameron said: "You
are right to be angry some of the people you elected are taking your money."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Vote to halt the EU gravy train!;
LEADER COLUMN

BYLINE: ByStuart Wheeler

SECTION: LEADER; 26

LENGTH: 810  words


EIGHT years ago I donated GBP 5million to the Conservative Party because I
supported then-leader William Hague's policy on Europe.

It remains the biggest donation made to a political party in Britain. Seven
weeks ago David Cameron expelled me from the party after I donated GBP 100,000
to UKIP.

Why did I donate the money to UKIP?

Because the Tory leadership has been and is being pathetic on the subject of the
European Union.

The present situation in the EU is a disaster. While almost all of us are
appalled at the way MPs have been using our money to enrich themselves that
scandal is nothing compared to the EU gravy train.

Become an MEP and you are "stupid" if after five years you do not walk away with
a tax-free GBP 1million. If people want change in Europe they should vote UKIP
on June 4.

David Cameron has done a terrific job in changing the image of the Tory Party.
He has got rid of its reputation as being the "nasty party" and deserves the
credit for making it electable domestically but on most topics David is far too
reluctant to tell the people what Conservative Party policy is.

Perhaps he does indeed see himself, as is often said, as the heir to Blair. Tony
Blair won power in 1997 more or less without committing himself to anything but
the Conservatives were by then extremely unpopular.

David may feel that at the moment Labour is every bit as unpopular as the
Conservatives were in 1997 but that is a very dangerous basis for refusing to
say what your policy is.

Polls do indeed show that the Labour Party is very unpopular but they also show
that people want much more information about Tories policies.

A WEEK is a long time in politics: Labour has more than a year before it has to
call an election.

What if, as some economists elieve, the recession is over later this year and
there is strong growth next year, for which Brown (or his successor) will take
the credit?

If the situation in Europe continues and the terrible Lisbon Treaty gets through
we shall have a semi-permanent president of the EU and a semi-permanent foreign
minister.

We shall also have a European army; we shall have the EU in charge of our
criminal courts; the disastrous Common Fisheries Policy, which is ruining our
once-great fishing industry, will continue; many of our few remaining vetoes
will be removed; and the Common Agriculture Policy, under which we taxpayers
subsidise French farmers, will continue.

More important still is the cost of the whole thing. Are you worried that
Britain has to borrow GBP 175billion this year? If so you are right but did you
ealise that, according to the well-respected think-tank the TaxPayers' Alliance,
we would be GBP 120billion a year better off if we were not involved with the
EU? That's more than two-thirds of what we are going to borrow.

Remember the borrowing will not go on for ever but the cost of being in the EU
will and it will go up and up.

Put another way, the cost already amounts to GBP 2,000 per man, woman and child
in this country.

So why does David Cameron not want to "bang on", as he puts it, about Europe?
Quite apart from the fact that it is the right strategy for the country, pinion
polls make it clear that being tough on Europe is a winning strategy, not a
losing one. A recent YouGov poll asked people what were the 10 things they would
most like to see an incoming Tory government do.

What do you think came top? Reducing taxes? Getting rid of ID cards? Dealing
with climate change? Not at all.

Number one was reducing immigration and number two was taking powers back from
the EU to our own Parliament in Westminster. So it beats me why Tor y Party
leaders believe it is a losing policy to be tough on Europe. Will the issue
split the party? No. There are only two big Europhile beasts, Ken Clarke and
Lord Heseltine, and one or two smaller beasts.

A Tory MP came up to me not long ago and begged me to go on doing what I was
doing because, as he said, 80 per cent o f the MPs are behind you. I think 80
per cent is an underestimate.

SO DAVID and William, the right policy on Europe is to give a cast iron
guarantee - no wriggle room - that an incoming Conservative Party will have a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, irrespective o f whether it is already law.

That is right for the country and right fo r the party.

There is no choice necessary between party and country but if there were you
should put country before party.

A final thought. When Lord Tebbit ast week advised voters to turn against the
mainstream in the Euro elections in order to show their disgust over MPs' greed,
he spared the Conservative Part y the disaster of having to expel him by not
specifically endorsing Nigel Farage's UKIP.

But he advised against voting for any o f the three main parties or the BNP.

Who did that leave?

Stuart Wheeler is a former barrister, investment banker and the founder of the
IG Index betting empire.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING ISSUE: The European Union is costing British taxpayers a
fortune

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Thethings they say. . .

SECTION: FEATURES; 28

LENGTH: 281  words


I want to apologise on behalf of politicians of all parties for what has
happened.

PM GORDON BROWN does too little, too late I might as well say it.

I wish we still had Betty Boothroyd.

Labour MP KATE HOEY criticises Speaker Michael Martin over the expenses row

They should send a message. . . and they do that by simply not voting for the
three main parties.

LORD TEBBIT implies that voters should vote UKIP in the upcoming European
elections I put my hands up. A year ago I had Jeremy Paxman on the blower
complaining about the lacklustre performance of his underpants and then I boobed
over the pricing of women's bras.

M&S boss STUART ROSE apologises for 'bra-gate'

I have no desire for other women. I only love Victoria.

Ninety per cent of what is written about us is invented. The last one was this
story about the Hungarian model. I have never been out to dinner with this young
lady. If I took the time to deny every story I wouldn't have time to be a
footballer.

DAVID BECKHAM denies those infidelity rumours

My journaling really ramped up when I found I was pregnant with Trig and then
Track was going off to war and I found Bristol was pregnant.

SARAH PALIN on her plans to publish a book based on her campaign trail diaries
but will it explain what she was thinking when she named her children?

Just think, I am Dr Dolly!

So when people say something about Double-D they will be thinking of something
entirely different.

DOLLY PARTON receives an honorary doctorate from the University of Tennessee

'The best things in life are free' - Janet Jackson, circa 1990. Janet obviously
hasn't read any free London newspapers.

Comedian MICHAEL McINTYRE says that paying nothing isn't always a good deal

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 17, 2009

A 'PERFECT STORM' FOR THE BNP?;
The BNP could win as many as seven seats in next month's European elections.
Nigel Farndale watches its supporters;
in action

BYLINE: Nigel Farndale

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2880  words


When you contact the British National Party you cross over to the political dark
side, a shadowy world over which neither Gordon Brown nor David Cameron hold
dominion. There is paranoia behind the voice telling me that I, as a member of
the press, will be allowed to attend the launch of the BNP's European election
manifesto, but that I will not be told where or when it is, not until a few
hours beforehand. I will also have the chance to interview Nick Griffin, the BNP
leader but, again, the timing of this will remain vague for fear of "sabotage''.

So it is that I find myself at a "redirection point'', the Aldi carpark in
Grays, Essex, from where I will be taken on to the secret venue. A "Truth
Truck'' is being unveiled, its billboard showing a white family, all smiles, and
a slogan: "People like you voting BNP''. The none-too-subtle subtext is that the
BNP is not for "people like them'': black people, people from ethnic minorities,
immigrants. Almost immediately, the police arrive. There has been a complaint
from the manager of Aldi. The Truth Truck is covered up and moved on.

The venue turns out to be a theatre in the town, a 10-minute walk away. Men and
women with red, white and blue BNP rosettes are milling around outside, quite
openly. One wears a smart tie and blazer with the insignia of the Merchant Navy.
It reminds you that when details of the 10,000 or so members of the BNP were
leaked last year, some turned out to be retired policemen, ex-servicemen,
solicitors, teachers, even a ballerina - as well as all the white van men and
nightclub bouncers you might expect.

There are no protesters today, thanks presumably to the secrecy. Councillor
Robert Bailey, an ex-Royal Marine, is the BNP candidate for London. "Most of us
are ex-Labour,'' he tells me. "The Labour Party used to stand for what we
believe in. Now, no way. It's not just immigration that has changed; it's our
way of life. We're becoming a Third World country in Europe with no influence,
no power and the people not knowing anything about their own history.''

When I talk to other members, they don't want me to use their names. Is this
because they are ashamed? "No, it's because of the intimidation and threats.
Because we might lose our jobs.'' A retired man in a trilby tells me that,
according to YouGov, many of the people who are intending to vote BNP on June 4
won't say they are for that same reason, but in the anonymity of the polling
booth the true scale of BNP support will be revealed.

Worryingly, he may be right. It is predicted that the BNP may win not only its
first seat in the European Parliament but, because of the proportional
representation system of voting, as many as seven. To win in the North-West it
needs just 8 per cent of the vote, barely 1.5 per cent more than it got in 2004.
Griffin is calling it a "perfect storm''. He believes that the combined effects
of the credit crunch, the perceived lack of control over immigration and, most
significantly, the perception that all of the mainstream parties are corrupt -
thanks to the MPs' expenses scandal - will mean a big turn-out for the BNP.
"Journalists are going to say it was a protest vote: well, that is fine with
us,'' he tells me later in the day. "The British public have a lot to protest
about.''

The Conservative Party is so concerned about the BNP benefiting from the
expenses scandal that it won't even discuss the party by name for fear of giving
it publicity; in one of his few comments on the subject David Cameron has
dismissed the BNP as an "evil party''. Lord Tebbit's intervention last week was
not helpful: he argued that people should punish the main parties in the
European elections, though he was at pains to add that he did not mean vote BNP
(he meant Ukip, presumably).

Labour, meanwhile, has gone on the attack, mobilising at local level wherever
there is a sign of heavy BNP activity. National funding has been provided for
"Stop the BNP'' leafleting. Cabinet ministers have been warning disillusioned
Labour supporters not to vote BNP. They would rather they voted Tory.

That is the peculiar thing about the BNP: it seems to be an amalgam of extreme
Left and Right. Its policies include taking Britain out of the EU, deporting all
illegal immigrants (and offering legal immigrants money to return home), and
bringing back not only hanging and the birch but also National Service and
imperial measurements.

Yet it is also, fundamentally, Old Labour. It would take the railways back into
public ownership. It rejects globalisation. It believes in strong trade unions
and that as much of industry as possible should be owned by those who work in
it. In these respects it reminds you that Oswald Mosley left the Labour Party in
1931 to form the party that ultimately became the British Union of Fascists
because Labour had rejected his plan to defeat mass unemployment with a
programme of public investment. It is no coincidence that campaign leaflets in
white working-class areas describe the BNP as "the Labour Party your
grandfathers voted for''.

Before she will talk to me, one BNP rosette-wearing woman from Epping Forest,
who works for the NHS, wants to know who I will vote for. When I decline to tell
her, other than to say it is certainly not the BNP, she takes this in good part
and tells me the reason she votes BNP. She is worried that if Turkey is allowed
to join the EU, Muslims will be in a majority here within 20 years. "They are
going to take us like an army. It's the way they breed.'' They. Them. Always the
language of otherness, of fear.

Inside the theatre, Vera Lynn is playing over the sound system. I'm asked not to
mention this because she has complained about being used by the BNP in the past.
There are speakers and film clips which reveal that the BNP is proud of its new
call centre and the row of computers it calls its data processing unit. A suited
man who sounds like Charles Kennedy explains the finances of the party and
claims that it now has funds of  pounds 2million and that "this will send a
shiver up the spine of the main parties''. It will be contesting every region in
this upcoming election. Simon Darby, the deputy leader, refers to "the greedy,
lying, treacherous bunch of swine in Troughminster''.

But the theatre is only half full, with about 100 people, and there is an
amateurish feel to the presentation, with slides not coming up and sound systems
not working. There is also a propaganda stunt worthy of Maoist China. Three
"politicians'', wearing suits, pig masks and rosettes of the main parties, come
on the stage and guzzle money out of troughs, before being chased off the stage
by construction workers waving banners saying "British jobs for British
workers''.  This is the slogan the BNP is fighting on -one they had first, as
they are delighted to remind me. Gordon Brown, they claim, nicked it from the
BNP.

By now the leader is running half an  hour late. This, I discover later, is
because he has been interviewed by Andrew Neil on The Daily Politics in London.
"First time I've been allowed into a BBC studio,'' he is to tell me. "When I was
interviewed by Paxman I had to be filmed somewhere other than in the building.''

When Griffin arrives and makes his stump speech it is in front of a poster of a
Spitfire. He is greeted with a standing ovation. "We are not going to Brussels
to get our noses in the trough but to become whistle blowers about the
corruption there,'' he says. "We are going to throw some rusty spanners in the
works.''

Although it wants to leave the EU ultimately, for now, he says, the BNP will
oppose the entry of Turkey into the EU - because otherwise this country will be
flooded with "low-wage Muslims''. Someone behind me shouts "Never!'' and is
rebuked by the Charles Kennedy

sound-alike in front of me who turns and silences him with a finger to his lips.
Clearly they have been told to tone down the thuggish image for this conference.

Grotesquely, given the British were fighting the Nazis in the war, Griffin
compares June 4 to D-Day, a chance for the BNP to get a bridgehead into Europe.
And he ends his speech by giving a Churchillian two-finger salute.

It is time to meet. The Labour leader   has something other than a slogan in
common with the leader of the BNP. They both have a glass eye. I think Julie
Burchill's description of Griffin takes some beating. "To look at, he's like a
plain man who is halfway through eating a handsome one; to listen to, sometimes
he sounds sensible, sometimes completely mad. I've never seen a face so
asymmetrical as Mr Griffin's. You can actually see his Mr Nice/Mr Nasty sides
jostling each other for dominance.''

He is 50 this year, married to a nurse, and the father of four. They live in a
remote part of rural Wales with guard dogs and security cameras. His father, a
farmer and Tory councillor, met his mother while heckling a Communist Party
meeting in north London in 1948. When everyone else has gone, apart from his
bodyguards, we wander into the town to find a café. When he offers me a coffee,
he says: "With milk? Not white coffee. Can't say that.'' He is wearing a tiny
metal poppy in his lapel - the British Legion sign - and cufflinks that have a
griffin on them, the crest of Downing College, Cambridge, where he read law.

I tell him that most of the activists I have talked to seemed more concerned
with race than the BNP's official slogan. "The British jobs for British workers
slogan has become a way to openly and legitimately express concern about the
multicultural transformation of Britain,'' he says. "And that is the core of our
vote, the reason we are here.''

When Griffin became leader in 1999 he began to change the BNP's stance on racial
issues. He claims to have repudiated racism now, instead espousing what he calls
"ethno-nationalism''. But the fact remains that in 1998 he was convicted for
incitement to racial hatred for denying the Holocaust. More recently he was
acquitted on two charges of incitement to racial hatred against Muslims, after
describing Islam as "vicious'' and "wicked''.

When he refers to "low-paid Muslims entering Britain from Turkey'', he is
presumably, I suggest, blowing a dog whistle to potential supporters who are
racist. "No, we're talking about Turkey because there is a serious plan afoot by
our liberal elite to give 80 million Turks the right to come here. Their culture
is very different to ours; we find some of their culture thoroughly unpleasant.
Giving them the right to come and settle in Britain is a huge issue. I think if
British people really understood that was one of the consequences of our
membership of the EU, then I think you would find that 95 per cent of the
population of this country would want us to leave the EU. It wouldn't just be
the native Brits; it would be the Sikhs, the Hindus, the Christian West Indians,
even the moderate Muslims not wanting to be part of an Islamic state.''

So he accepts there is such a thing as a moderate Muslim? "There is, and he is
effectively a bad Muslim because Islam is fundamentally intolerant of all other
religions. Someone who really follows the Koran is obliged to be a bad
neighbour; that is what the Koran tells them.''

The BNP's "People like you'' whites-only billboard, I ask: does it mean that if
you are black you are meant to think you are one of "them'' and therefore you
don't belong in this country? "I'd never thought of that billboard in a racial
sense. What that is portraying is ordinary, happy, family people and not strange
people on the fringes of society. Now there may well be people from ethnic
minorities who would like to feature on our poster because they don't want to
see any more immigration either, but we think it would send out a confusing and
mixed message if we had black faces on that poster - because people would think
even the BNP is politically correct these days.''

He claims his is not a racist party, yet he won't have black or ethnic members:
isn't that as good a definition of racism as any? "It could change but at
present, because the BNP is defined ethnically, any discrimination against the
BNP is indirect racial discrimination, so members who feel their job is
threatened because of the membership can say to their employers if you sack me I
will go to a tribunal for racial discrimination.''

Under a European law? "Yes, funnily enough. The other thing is that every other
ethnic group in this country has a large number of groups representing their
interests - the Black Police Officers Association, Muslim Lawyers Association,
Bangladeshi Women's Association - there are hundreds of them. You try and form
an English Lawyers Association and you would be thrown off the Bar Council, or a
White Policeman's Association: you would be up for racism. So the only group
that  the white, indigenous population of this country has to speak up for them
is us.''

If he doesn't think he is racist, I say, I'd like to know what his definition of
racism is. "It's a term invented by Trotsky to demonise political opponents and,
if it means anything, it is about exercising power to disadvantage or hurt other
people just because they are from a different racial or national or cultural
group, and I think it is wrong. I think there is racism in this country and most
of it is directed at the indigenous population. On the streets of Birmingham and
Bradford there is an epidemic of racist violence against young white males.''

There are probably a lot of racist people in this country, so might there not be
some votes in admitting it is a racist party? "I don't think so. We almost put
on our poster 'BNP. I'm not racist but ...' because that is what everyone says.
They don't want to be perceived as racist, they don't feel they are racist but
they know there is deep unfairness going on, directed against the native Brits.
There are racists out there. The National Front is still out there and that is a
rival organisation; it's very much unreconstructed, hardcore racist and no one
supports it. But even if there were votes to be had in racism I would not want
those votes because we are not a racist party.''

Is that why he left the National Front? "I realised it was unreconstructable.
Tainted goods. I walked away.''

Griffin has become a skilful interviewee. He has learnt to sound reasonable,
arguing that any racist or anti-Semitic quotes from the past have been "taken
out of context''. (He now accepts that millions of Jews were killed, but claims
that some historians still question whether it was deliberate genocide.)

I gather that over the next three weeks the party will be running ad campaigns
in newspapers - something it has not been able to do much of in the past. "Last
time we did this was two years ago; half the papers said yes, half said no.
There are more this time saying yes because newspapers need the money.''

So does he feel he is now coming in from the cold? "We patently aren't more
mainstream. There are politicians queueing up to denounce us. You can usually
cut the atmosphere with a knife when our councillors arrive on the first day
[they have 56] but after a year or so, when other councillors see that we are
just trying to help things improve, they relax a bit. I wouldn't want to be too
normalised, though, because I think that is what has happened to Ukip's vote.
It's seen to be sleazy as well. When they are treated well by the BBC, that goes
against them, because we are both competing for the same anti-establishment
vote. When I get on the BBC, they want to rough me up and we have a good old
ding-dong and voters realise we are not the same as the others. Very beneficial
for us. But we do want to do some of the things the other parties do, like hold
a meeting in a public venue and advertise it, like go on The Daily Politics
without having a gang of Labour goons waiting for me outside.''

Sounds like he enjoys the ding-dongs. "Yes, I boxed at university and I still
enjoy a good scrap.''

A bodyguard tells us we need to move: we're attracting unwanted attention. A
final question, then. What about the argument that Griffin is a liability to his
party because of his Holocaust-denying past? "Because of my talent for
horrifically vicious sound bites that come back to bite me, you mean? That's as
maybe. I can probably take the party to an 18 per cent threshold but the final
step to power will have to be taken by someone else. Before long things that
nationalists said when they were young may become like John Reid saying he was a
member of the Communist Party when he was young.''

I doubt it. Griffin doesn't seem to appreciate quite how beyond the pale he is
and his views are. The British are a tolerant people. The cloven hoof of fascism
does not suit our national temperament. I've been trying to work out how the BNP
is different from the National Front of the Seventies and the British Union of
Fascists in the Thirties and the answer is that it is now playing the victim.
The white working class it represents felt superior before. Now they feel
inferior and victimised.

The final word should go to the black man who was working on reception at the
theatre. I asked him what he made of all these rosette-wearing supporters
strutting around his theatre. He shrugged and said: "Seems a shame.''

A shame is exactly what it seems.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                 1 Star Edition

LABOUR IN 'ELECTIONS MELTDOWN'

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 143 words


LABOUR strategists have warned Gordon Brown the party could trail home a dismal
fourth in local and European elections next month.

They fear the row about MPs' expenses and gloom over the recession could see
Labour finish below the Tories, Lib Dems and United Kingdom Independence Party
on June 4.

Polls show a leap in support for the anti- European UKIP. In one UKIP is
level-pegging in the Euro-election with Labour at 17pc, while the Tories are on
30pc.

A senior Labour source said: "The message we are getting on the doorstep is
negative in the extreme.

People are unhappy, not just with Labour, but politicians in general."
Meanwhile, Georgia Gould, daughter of Tony Blair's poll guru Lord Gould, has
failed in her bid to become a Labour candidate.

Instead party members in Erith and Thamesmead chose tax investigator Teresa
Pearce in the next general election..

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning...Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 17, 2009 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

LABOUR IN 'ELECTIONS MELTDOWN'

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 158 words


LABOUR strategists have warned Gordon Brown the party could trail home a dismal
fourth in crucial local and European elections next month.

They fear the row about MPs' expenses and the gloom over the recession could see
Labour finish below the Tories, Lib Dems and the United Kingdom Independence
Party on June 4.

Polls show a "significant rise" in support for the anti-European UKIP, while the
far-right British National Party hope to boost their share of the vote in inner
city areas.

A senior Labour source said: "The message we are getting on the doorstep is
negative in the extreme.

People are unhappy not just with Labour, but politicians in general.

"We will try to get out as much of our vote as possible but we're braced for the
worst. If people aren't going to vote Labour, we'd rather they vote for any
other party than the BNP." The latest YouGov poll put Labour on just 22 per cent
- down five per cent and way behind the Tories on 41 per cent..

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Braced...Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

BYLINE: SATURDAY DISPATCH BY RICHARD PENDLEBURY

LENGTH: 2119 words


An economy in chaos. Brussels on the rampage. And now those expenses. BNP
leaders hope it's the 'perfect storm' that will sweep them to power. But as our
investigation reveals, this vile bunch of racists, oddballs and thugs make
today's MPs look like paragons

ALMOST exactly 75 years ago, Sir Oswald Mosley, the leader of the British Union
of Fascists, attracted an audience of 10,000 people to hear him speak at
London's Olympia. That dramatic evening of June 7, 1934, with its highly
choreographed bombast, noisy hecklers and brutish retaliation by blackshirted
thugs, saw the high water mark of Far Right politics in Britain.

The scales fell from many hitherto admiring eyes. The BUF was never an electoral
force again. Fascism, with all its ludicrous posturing, simply wasn't in the
British social DNA.

And yet today, after years in an electoral wilderness of skinhead haircuts and
Third Reich nostalgia, British nationalists are displaying something of the
cocky confidence of Mosley and his street corner cohorts.

On June 4, members of the British National Party -- Mosley's ideological
descendants -- go to the polls in the European Parliament and local elections,
with a spring in their step. In their target Euro election regions of the North
West, Yorkshire and Humberside, the West Midlands and Eastern England, they need
only between eight and 11 per cent of the vote (under the proportional
representation system) to get seats in Brussels.

Part of this rise in expectations is due to the application of a (very thin)
veneer of mainstream styling. Experience has taught them to swap their previous
uniforms of denim and shaven heads for sober suits and ties.

They have also learned to tone down their racial supremacist rhetoric -- in
public at least. But what has given the BNP a sudden and unexpected confidence
boost is the newly revealed behaviour of a large number of our elected MPs.

It would have been instructive, if not sobering, for the latter to have been
present this week -- as I was -- when the BNP's chairman Nick Griffin
breathlessly declared that 'a perfect storm' was about to blow his party back to
a position of political credibility.

They would win not just one, breakthrough, seat in Brussels but possibly 'six or
seven', he claimed. He even used the phrase 'when we are in power', although
that was only to whip up the credulous faithful.

The 'perfect storm' of which Griffin spoke is a confluence of various voter
concerns such as the credit crunch, Islamic extremism, immigration and
disaffection with Brussels. But the BNP believes that the tipping issue for
significant progress at the ballot box is the MPs' expenses scandal.

After all, thanks to repeated electoral failure, no BNP MP has ever had the
chance to claim from the taxpayer for his or her moat renovation, chandelier
installation, helipad, tennis court, third home, non-existent mortgage or a
riverside flat for their student daughter. Almost overnight, it is no longer a
matter of what the BNP is -- a marginal group with a rotten ideological core --
but what it is not.

EARLIER this week I travelled to Grays in Essex, where the BNP was launching its
national election manifesto. As I drove there, I listened to a BBC talk show
with increasing gloom and contempt as both Labour and Tory MPs refused to
condemn their colleagues by name, while blaming 'the System'. Each interview was
a little nudge in the back of the floating voter. I was heading for the eager,
Far Right

Confidence may be high but the BNP continues to be shy of the kind of advertised
public appearances which the mainstream takes for granted.

I picked up its campaign trail, as instructed by the BNP press operation, in a
quiet corner of an Aldi supermarket car park. A chubby little man in a suit and
tie was waiting by a decrepit Vauxhall Astra and a shrouded BNP hoarding.

A few yards away, two policemen yawned and dozed in their BMW.

They were there to protect Astra man from possible anti-fascist agitation, which
was conspicuous by its absence. He directed me to another car park, thence to
the BNP launch at the town's municipal theatre.

'It's opposite the war memorial,' Astra man repeated (it wasn't but, as I was to
learn, the modern BNP is anxious to commandeer British wartime sacrifice).

On arrival, the media was corralled into one part of the theatre lobby. A tall,
gimlet-eyed young man in a tightly buttoned dark suit made sure there was no
inter-alternative. action between the journalists (whom the BNP need, but hate)
and the party candidates and members, who might say something off colour.

'I've told you before that the Press are not to speak to anyone,' the goon
hissed at us, as we tried to strike up conversation with a pensioner BNP
supporter. 'If you do, you will be out on the street. Simple as that, OK?'

Once allowed into the theatre auditorium, it was clear that this was no hot
ticket.

The room held 300, but the BNP had struggled to fill half the seats, largely
with local election candidates and their supporters.

On stage, victory against Nazism in World War II was the dominant (and utterly
cynical) motif. Winston Churchill's photograph was displayed alongside the image
of a Battle of Britain Spitfire (the plane the BNP had unwittingly chosen to use
for its campaign was from a Polishmanned squadron).

Other pictures showed the D-Day beaches. Here was a party that clearly wished to
be synonymous with our 'Finest Hour'. There were no searchlights, nor marching
bands, a la Olympia,

1934. But Griffin, the new Great Leader, was as late as Mosley had been on that
momentous night.

WHILE we waited, the PA played a selection of what sounded very much like
'Forces' Sweetheart' Vera Lynn, while Richard Barnbrook, the BNP's eccentric
London mayoral candidate and one-time gay porn director, pranced around
trilling: 'This is going to smack of Cecil B. DeMille!'

What followed Griffin's grand entrance -- he flashed a Churchillian Victory V
sign -- was more David Brent than The Greatest Show On Earth.

The projector wouldn't work when required; the curtains failed to open on cue;
the music was too loud and a 'piece of theatre' involving activists wearing pig
masks grubbing in fake money filled troughs, smacked of the sixth form.

A centrepiece film boasting of the BNP's growth was so amateurish that it
reduced some among the Press to giggles. (Griffin later emailed his supporters
to say that we had been 'shocked' by its brilliance.)

But one thing shone through: the MP expenses scandal now dominates BNP electoral
strategy.

Only when pressed in a concluding media question-and-answer session did Griffin
rant about race and Islam, the core issues which recently saw him support an
internal party 'style' manual which stated: 'BNP activists and writers should
never refer to "black Britons" or "Asian Britons" etc, for the simple reason
that such persons do not exist.'

Twenty-four hours after the rally in Grays, I was sitting down in Yorkshire with
an old friend of mine, a former coal miner called Pete.

We both knew that this would be a slightly awkward conversation; rather like the
confession of an extra-marital affair. On the phone the previous night, Pete had
even used the phrase 'indigenous people', which is straight from the BNP lexicon
of racial terminology.

Pete used to be, as he puts it, 'a Red'. He first went down the pit as a
teenager and immersed himself in Left-wing politics. Marx's Das Kapital was on
his bookshelf while Robert Tressell's socialist novel The Ragged Trousered
Philanthropists was his Bible. As a card-carrying member of the Labour Party,
CND and of course the closed shop National Union of Miners, he saw the UK via
marches and rallies.

During the miners' strike of 1984-85 he was arrested twice while on flying
picket duty in the 'scab' coalfields of Nottinghamshire.

'We used to go down there at night in balaclavas to put in the strikebreakers'
windows and set fire to their cars,' he admits without a hint of regret.

From the window of the pub near Wakefield where we meet he can see the car park
where '100 scab buses would gather every morning. Me and me mates would hide
behind those hedges down there and pelt 'em with bricks before legging it across
the fields. All very cowboy and Indians.'

Pete's pit closed a couple of years after the strike, though he continued to
work on mining contracts elsewhere. He still voted Labour and to this day hates
Margaret Thatcher.

BUT HIS part of Yorkshire was changing and Pete grew 'hugely disillusioned'. 'I
was a socialist and believed in socialism,' he said. 'But any man-made system or
belief will be corrupted. The Labour Party grew complacent. They believed that
they had the white working-class vote in their pocket by right. It stopped being
concerned about us.

'We weren't given the chance to vote on whether or not we wanted
multiculturalism. Now there are parts of Yorkshire that are no-go areas for me
because I'm white. I'm surrounded by industrial estates where you can't get a
job unless you are East European and prepared to work all day for peanuts. I'm
not racist, but. . .'

He stopped voting in elections in

2001. He won't ever vote Tory, nor support UKIP because 'it's too middle class'.
But six weeks ago he phoned the BNP. They snapped him up, very efficiently. Pete
even got to talk to Griffin who, he says, promised to make him a local
councillor if he wanted.

Pete is still thinking on this. It may be a step too far. But he will be voting
for the BNP in the foreseeable future 'to say "up yours" to the mainstream
parties as much as anything'.

He drives me to the station. As we parted he said 'Don't make me look too much
of a s*** . I know they still have the nasty Nazi knuckledraggers in the
shadows, but the leaders are saying the things that I am thinking.'

We stared in silence at each other. Then we shrugged and went our separate ways.

What was there to say as the expenses scandal raged on? Well, this perhaps: for
all their newlydonned suits, calls for 'patriotic duty' and posters of Spitfires
and Normandy beachheads, the BNP was founded by a man called John Tyndall who
said of Hitler's political work: 'Mein Kampf is my Bible.' Tyndall was the party
leader before Griffin.

Churchill's use as a BNP votewinner is strange as BNP'director of publicity Mark
Collett once said of the great man: 'He was a f***ing c*** who led us into a
pointless war with other whites [Nazi Germany] standing up for their race.'

BNP deputy leader Simon Darby appeared on stage at Grays to say: 'We are not
like the other politicians, who are, quite frankly, a greedy, lying treacherous
bunch of swine.' Mr Darby is also different from 'the other politicians' in that
he attends neo-fascist conferences. He was recently photographed entering one
such event in Milan, as other delegates gave the Nazi salute.

FOR HIS part, Griffin admitted this week that he had shared a platform with
former Ku Klux Klan leader Don Black. He did so, he claimed, 'because I believe
in freedom of speech and argued that his way of doing politics is wrong'.

It seems Black has yet to be persuaded. The American is behind the Stormfront
website which carries a forum thread titled 'BNP revolution is happening'. One
contributor writes on it, not untypically: 'I'm sorry, but Jews are not British
no matter how far their lineage goes back. Jews out. Always. It's all or nothin'
folks.'

Griffin has spoken of his 'direct' political line back to Mosley. So it is
timely to recall that while Poles were flying Spitfires in defence of Britain,
and our soldiers were fighting, Griffin's fellow-traveller was interned in
Holloway jail or under house arrest, as a danger to national security.

When the Grays launch had ended I passed two BNP activists who were complaining
about a question asked by a Channel 4 journalist. 'Of course, Channel 4's full
of Asians,' one told the other, by way of explanation.

It was a relief to be out in the clean air and sunshine. I walked back to my
car, past the memorial on which the World War II dead of Grays are listed
alphabetically, from a Private Allen to Aircraftman Williamson.

They did not fight and die for the right of MPs to charge moats, chandeliers and
non-existent mortgages to the taxpaper. Nor for bankers to line their pockets
while the economy imploded. Or communities to be divided down racial or
religious lines.

But it is also a travesty that their sacrifice is now being used by the Far
Right.

This week, Lord Tebbit suggested that on June 4 voters should turn to the
smaller parties -- except the BNP which he described as 'Labour with racism'.
Certainly, respect for the mainstream parties is at an all-time low. But 75
years after Olympia, we mustn't let our rotten MPs hold open the door for
Mosley's successors.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Minor parties can't believe their luck

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 209  words


There has been much speculation this week about how marginal parties will
benefit from the tsunami of sleaze. I am sure they will profit hugely, though
this should not obscure two points. First, the distinctly unlovely (and
socialist) BNP were going to do well anyway, because of Labour's idiotic
immigration policies and the Tory party's reluctance to get "nasty'' on the
subject of the free flow of exotic (but legally immigrating) rapists,
drug-dealers and other criminals to this country.

Now, it must feel to the BNP as if they have pulled the handle on the fruit
machine and three oranges have come up. As for Ukip, they are the only
respectable party that anyone who wants to leave the EU can vote for and they,
much more deservingly, will do well too. They will be helped by Lord Tebbit's
accurate observation that at present none of the main three parties deserves
support. I suspect Dave could get Lord Tebbit onside if he were to get tough on
various of his mates who have had their hands in the till, making it clear that
sorry is not enough and that a life awaits them outside the world of politics.
Otherwise, for all Dave's hair-shirtedness this week the Tories will look
indistinguishable from everyone else, and will be treated accordingly.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

picture this...;
THIS WEEK;
EXPENSOVISION;
As the Eurovision Song Contest again furs up the TV schedules,;
Jim White imagines a parallel competition featuring ;
our MPs

BYLINE: Jim White

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 741  words


On to a huge glitzy stage - paid for by taxpayers - stride a glitzily clad
couple. She is so thin that she makes a three-day old sapling look obese, while
he appears to have a marmoset perched on top of his head. On closer inspection
this turns out to be his hair. Both wear smiles apparently applied by industrial
welder. They approach the edge of the stage and take turns addressing the camera
in a strange amalgam of French, Russian and English, of a sort only otherwise
encountered on Stephen Hawking's voice box. From the audience there is much
over-excited whooping.

Voice over: Erm erm, hello. Oh, oh, ummm, I'm Graham Norton and welcome to the
Expensovision Song Contest, the world's foremost parade of parliamentary excess.
On stage are our local hosts, a pair of jokers who are called Piggi and Troff.
And no, I couldn't tell you which is which. Mmm. Mmm. See what I did there?
Funny, mmm, mmm? Oh, I'm crying inside. Anyway, no, yes, errr, let's get on with
it shall we? Our first song is from a little boy/girl band featuring Douglas,
Clare, Andrew and of course up front as always it's Hazel. Yes, it's The Blears
with Congratulations...

[The camera picks out four members of the band dressed in ghastly costumes (
pounds 350 a piece: entertainment allowance). Lead singer Hazel is sitting
astride a powerful motorbike ( pounds 6,000: travel and mobility) and
coquettishly removes her helmet ( pounds 125: health and safety) to reveal her
recently freshened auburn coiffure ( pounds 250: no receipt required). She
begins to sing...]

Hazel: "Congratulations and celebrations,

Our expenses claim went through as easy as can be.

Home decorations in plush locations,

The lot was paid for, yes it's all nice and free.

I never believed you could get cash for moats and contract parking,

Until I met the speaker Michael Martin.

He told me there's nothing had been invented,

That couldn't be charged as legitimate expenses.

So...

Congratulations and jubilations,

Now my current account's bigger than Lloyds/TSB...''

[Music fades, camera pans across the audience who do not look overly impressed.]

Norton: Ummm, ah, well, there we are. What can I say? That was lovely. Not.
Anyhow, er, er, I was reading a survey the other day that said estate agents and
journalists were the most despised professions in the country, just below serial
killers and Timmy Mallett. Mmm. Something tells me that survey needs to be
updated. Anyhow, moving on, our next act is the very lovely Margaret...

[Lights show in the middle of the stage a caravan ( pounds 17,000: portable
second home allowance), out of which steps Margaret. She is not wearing any
shoes ( pounds 175 chiropodist fee: health and wellbeing). She begins to
sing...]

Margaret: You wonder if one day that I'll pay that all back

If you say I have to, I gladly say this

I'm just a puppet of the system

And rest assured I'm on the attack

Money is just like a merry-go-round

And no I didn't pay for my hair

That's what you simply don't understand

So to blame me is so unfair

I'm just a puppet of the system

And rest assured I'm on the attack...

[Music fades. From an increasingly agitated crowd, the sound of heckling is
discernible. Someone yells "shame''. Another "resign''.]

Norton: Oh dear. Poor Margaret, she doesn't quite seem to have judged her
audience. Still, she's always got her touring club membership - paid for by us,
obviously. So, what's next. Err, err. Oh yes, and now our last contestant of the
evening. It's Elliot and he's going to sing Waterloo.

[A sizeable man with grey hair and a hang-dog expression is discovered sitting
on a high stool ( pounds 140: constituency home furnishing allowance) in the
middle of the stage. He is surrounded by half a dozen dancers apparently
costumed in Bacofoil. As Elliot starts to sing, his supporting group one by one
drift away, leaving him entirely alone on stage...]

Elliot: My, my at Waterloo Napoleon did surrender

Oh yeah and I've met my destiny in quite a similar way

Cos the mortgage book on the shelf

Was always repeating itself.

Waterloo: made a mistake and I'm feeling blue

Waterloo: it was the system that made me do

Waterloo: couldn't escape if I wanted to

Waterloo: even had to charge for a Portaloo...

[Music fades; the audience is on its feet booing, throwing things at the stage
and filling out Ukip membership forms]

Norton: Oh dear. Yes, right, and er, er, I'm just getting news of the scoring
coming in. And it seems, well it's nul points for the lot of them.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FURIOUS PUBLIC DEMAND ELECTION;
Police probe MPs' expenses

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 728  words


GORDON Brown was under pressure last night to call an immediate general election
in the face of public fury over the Westminster expenses scandal.

Angry voters across the country are demanding a mass clearout of MPs.

At the same time, Scotland Yard has announced a team of leading police officers
and prosecution lawyers will meet next week to decide what action to take
against those who have abused the public's trust.

A poll of voters yesterday found two-thirds want an election called as soon as
poss ible. The same number want MPs who have been named and shamed to be forced
to stand down, according to the ComRes poll.

Sickened by the amount of taxpayers' money wasted on moats, trouser presses and
mole catchers and chocolate snacks, many fear the depth of sleaze revealed by
the leaking of MPs' expenses details means a significant section of the ruling
establishment needs to be swept away for good.

Opposition MPs backed the call for an election as the only way of restoring
trust in Britain's political system.

Some MPs even fear the country could be on the brink of becoming ungovernable
given the weight of public anger towards politicians.

Tory leader David Cameron said: "Now is the time for change.

Our politics is reviled, our Parliament is held in scorn, our people have had
enough."

The pressure for a snap election surged yesterday after the expenses scandal
claimed another scalp.

Justice Minister Shahid Malik quit the Government over allegations that he
claimed more than GBP 66,000 over three years in second home allowance despite
benefiting from subsidised rent.

He insisted he was standing down to clear his name and pleaded for the media
"bloodfest" to stop.

But radio phone-in shows around the country were swamped with callers urging the
dissolution of Parliament.

BBC Radio 2's Jeremy Vine said his lunchtime show was "inundated". Caller Peter
Harper, of Ilkeston, Derbyshire, said: "I think the trust of the country in
Parliament has been utterly demolished.

"Parliament should be dissolved. There should be an election now. The MPs'
expenses for the last four years should be published in full." Another caller,
who gave her name as Irene, said: "Every person in this country is owed an
apology."

Mr Brown, who fears Labour will be virtually annihilated at the polls, is
understood to be determined to cling on until the last possible date for an
election in June next year.

By last night, a petition on the official Downing Street website calling for Mr
Brown to resign had more than 58,500 backers.

Another opinion poll by YouGov yesterday put Labour on a 22 per cent share of
the vote, a historic low not experienced since the First World War.

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's
perfectly understandable that taxpayers want the corrupt political deadwood
cleared out of Westminster.

"If an MP has proved they are unfit for public office, their constituents should
have the right to vote them out."

Many fear public frustration could lead to outbreaks of disorder unless voters
are given a chance to deliver their verdict at the ballot box.

A window was smashed by a brick at the Bromsgrove constituency office of Julie
Kirkbride, a Tory MP linked to the expenses scandal, and another Tory, Alan
Duncan, had a pound sign gouged in his lawn by vandals.

Housing minister Margaret Beckett and other MPs were heckled and booed on BBC1's
Question Time on Thursday.

Lib Dem MP Norman Baker, a leading campaigner against Westminster sleaze, called
for an election this autumn.

"We need time for the smoke to clear, " he said. "It's important that things
calm down so we can make a rational judgment. And all three political parties
need to be able to find which MPs have been doing wrong and deselect them, or we
will just end up with the same candidates.

"By September, all the receipts will have been published and we will be in a
position to judge, so we should have an election then.

But I entirely understand the public anger."

The scandal is expected to give minor parties such as the UK Independence Party
and the Greens a boost in local council and Euro elections on June 4.

Earlier this week Lord Naseby, a former deputy Commons Speaker, said: "I think
the Prime Minister has to face up to the fact that the very foundations of our
democracy appear to be in dire trouble and in those circumstances we need a
general election."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Saturday: Comment & Debate: The fate looks sealed. Only Johnson can halt
catastrophe: Labour is the heavy loser in this hideous expenses saga. A new
leader might not win an election, but at least avert annihilation

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1048 words


This weekend MPs creep back to their constituencies, traumatised, shamed,
afraid. Stepping out on doorsteps with an election weeks away, will voters give
them the rollocking bollocking that Margaret Beckett and Menzies Campbell faced
on Question Time? The innocent quake along with the shifty.

Some will look their local activists in the eye, wondering if murderous
deselection is in their minds. It's not over yet, not by a long chalk. When
every detail is published officially, local papers will seize on each MP's
wooden spoon and plastic bag, many as yet unscrutinised. Both Cameron and Brown
have devised systems that ensure all this will be regurgitated when various
committees report back. Incumbency has become an electoral encumbrance.

Labour has been the heavy loser in this horrible saga. Better is expected of
them by their incandescent poorer constituents - and they are the government.
They had the power and authority to reform every aspect of parliamentary custom
and practice, but - like so much else left undone - they didn't, and many took
the money. Once the party of polished spin, they forgot the cardinal rule for
all in the public eye: do nothing you would squirm to see reported. How could
anyone claim for fines for not paying council tax? Drip, drip, there will be
more.

For nearly a year Gordon Brown has seen this death truck thundering towards him
down the political motorway. This story speaks eloquently about his indecisive
and ineptly tactical leadership. For all that time he has done nothing to limit
the damage of this inevitable crash. Months ago he could have stamped on abuses,
ordered his own MPs to pay back their most egregious claims with no more money
for furniture or food and, as Nick Clegg suggests, return all property-dealing
profits to the state. Instead there were absurdly doomed attempts to use the law
to stop disclosure.

Long ago Brown should have called in Cameron and Clegg to suggest that, for all
their sakes, they agree a new system. That required him willingly and generously
to support any better scheme they chose to offer, so long as all left the room
in agreement. Instead, so characteristically, he played politics by slapping
down his own take-it-or-leave-it plan, deliberately goading them to walk out,
which of course they did. With these bungled tactics he hoped to show the other
leaders up as anti-reformers, but as he leapt on to YouTube to seize the
initiative he fell flat on his face.

Even after that calamity, at Tuesday's political cabinet, with blood already on
the highway, the prime minister's indecision was terminal and fatal. I am told a
leading cabinet minister gave him a strong and detailed expenses reform plan,
with a script for presenting it. But it sat on his desk for many days. He
couldn't make up his mind; he was "reflecting" on it. Since nothing is proposed
to cabinet without Brown's prior support, the plan was never presented, the
discussion was diffuse and nothing was resolved. But when Cameron announced his
press conference for a few hours later, it was plain he had a plan of his own.
So Harriet Harman was sent out in a hurry to present a plan the cabinet hadn't
discussed.

Cameron triumphed: it hardly mattered what he said or if his plan made sense -
it too may unravel - when he showed himself forcefully decisive in a crisis and
his words answered the wrathful spirit of the times: "Politicians have done
things that are unethical and wrong. I don't care if they were within the rules
- they were wrong." Compare and contrast that with Gordon Brown days later:
"Where there is irregularity it has to be dealt with." This is the mindset and
the language of a bunker under siege where dwindling trusted advisers lose touch
with the daylight world outside.

Will ministers and backbenchers stiffen their spines and tell their leader to
go? Rumblings suggest they may, as the latest poll has Labour at 19%, neck and
neck with Ukip for fourth place. MPs with majorities of less than 10,000 will
tremble at their 4 June results. There are few Brownites left, only MPs
anxiously calculating if the upheaval of regicide might precipitate a worse
disintegration or whether Alan Johnson might save a hundred extra seats and
restore Labour's political verve. "If the execution was swift, they would do
much better with Alan Johnson," says the Ipsos Mori pollster Ben Page. Labour
would still almost certainly lose, he says, but not the catastrophic loss that
has some Westminster doomsters asking if "the Labour brand" is dead.

What could Johnson do? As a politically wise man around whom the cabinet could
gather, he has the manner and warmth to admit Labour errors. He would need to
apologise in language that resonates with the current whirlwind of fury, but
it's surprisingly easy to say an authentic sorry if it's meant

It may be too late for mighty swerves in political direction before next year's
election, but it's easy to sweep away the self-laid landmines in Labour's path.
No ID cards, but free passports for all instead. Devise a better plan for the
Post Office - Johnson knows it well - and abandon anything that's more trouble
and cost than it's worth. Ed Miliband's good green policy deserves a high
profile, only achieved by revisiting Brown's disastrous third runway decision.
Postpone Trident and open a public debate on nuclear arms and Britain's future
place in the EU and the world. On inequality, set up a social justice commission
to map a long-term path to fairer shares in pay, wealth and tax.

In 12 years Labour has never debated these fundamentals: no wonder it lost its
bearings to such an extent that Liam Byrne's big new idea last week called
Labour "the radical centre". For now, focus on the million under-24s out of
work, joined by 600,000 leaving education this summer. Johnson may not win, but
he would bring back Labour voters - and maybe many others when faced by the
meaning of Cameron's austerity.

Some fear a change of leader would only sharpen the Jacobin scythes of those
demanding a general election now to throw out their sitting MP. But if Brown is
made to walk the plank in June, the arrival of a fresh face, clean hands and a
new narrative would let Johnson claim some time to make his changes first. This
is Labour's last chance.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

National: Simon Hoggart's week: Open the gate: scandal needs a name

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 934 words


What this expenses scandal needs is a nifty title. The Case of the Phantom
Mortgage has a nice Sheridan Le Fanu ring to it, though on the long side.
Somewhere in the data there must be a bill for a rustic hearth in a former
partner's home repaired at the taxpayers' expense: that would give us Late
Mate's Slate Grategate.

Meanwhile, several MPs are grumbling about journalists' expenses. I can see
their point. It must be galling. On the other hand, I should say that the sums
we charge are pitiful by comparison - no second homes, no gardening, no tampons.
It's not public money. And unsurprisingly, many MPs are perfectly happy to be
taken out on our expense accounts. Years ago, I was taking a cabinet minister to
lunch and asked his secretary if he had a favourite restaurant. "Oh," she said
airily, as if discussing the rival merits of Pizza Express and Ask, "he likes
the usual places - you know, Le Gavroche, Petrus, Gordon Ramsay . . ."

I "emceed" a website the other day - there's something you wouldn't have read 10
years ago. It was for votematch.co.uk, which cunningly offers you 30 questions
related to the next election - in this case for the European parliament. It then
tells you which party reflects your views. (Of course, unless you're madly
pro-European or rabidly anti, you're likely to swerve between Ukip and the Lib
Dems). The launch was in the trendy Apple Shop in Regent Street, London, and the
guest speaker was Stephen Fry, a celebrated techie. He said: "Whenever I am
here, I think I have died and gone to heaven. But then I go to Lord's, and think
I have died and gone to heaven . . ."

He does an awful lot. I found myself adapting an old joke: what is the
difference between Stephen Fry and God? God is everywhere except in the hearts
of the unrighteous, whereas Stephen Fry is just everywhere.

We're told that 49 pubs are closing each week in the UK, and that is sad, even
if many of them are old, dark, miserable stews where the smoking ban has only
enhanced the smell of disinfectant. I'd guess the way to rescue pubs is for them
to go for a niche market, whether good food, unusual ales or just hobbies. I was
in Lincoln this week to give a talk at the book festival, and went to the Dog
and Bone. It's a small pub in the winding streets under the floodlit majesty of
that incredible cathedral.

Inside, it's warm and cosy. It's also the only book-lined pub I've seen. They
have a deal: if you bring in a book, you can take any one from the hundreds
around the walls. Keep it if you like it, or swap it for another. It's a fine,
prospering pub, answering three universal human needs: like-minded company,
alcohol and something to read.

You've probably not been following the separation of the "glamour model" Katie
Price ("Jordan") and Peter Andre, her husband, though it's a huge story in the
tabs. I can report little except the depressing news that 85% of people who go
to her website are female. That is horrible; naturally men don't actually fancy
women with silicone bodies and, by now, rather harsh, aggressive faces. But she
has become a role model for young women who want to make themselves rich and
famous almost exclusively for being rich and famous.

I was back at the Cartoon Museum this week - cannot keep away. There's a great
drawing there by Chris Riddell showing Margaret Thatcher as Shelley's
Ozymandias: "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair." The vast prime
ministerial head is half-buried in the lone and level sands.

When he acquired it, Kenneth Baker, one of her most loyal ministers, asked her
and Denis Thatcher to sign it. She looked suspicious. "But it's fallen down,"
she said. "Just sign it, please," he replied, and they did. It might be worth a
fortune one day: supposing a Gillray or Rowlandson had been autographed by the
prime minister or king who was its victim! Sometimes genteel philistinism has
advantages.

The American humorist PJ O'Rourke says that if anyone ever tells you that things
were better in the good old days, just say the one word "dentistry". He's right.
I can't remember when I was last in agony at the dentist. Once I even had root
canal work in the morning and was back at my desk that afternoon. The other day,
I had to have a tooth out. The dentist and his nurse chatted away while I went
numb. He put the kit inside my mouth and a few seconds later the tooth was gone.
What was amazing was that I felt only the slightest discomfort afterwards.
That's just a wonderful modern thing, like the internet, cars that start on cold
mornings and modern ice cream that doesn't taste of lard, which it did when I
was a boy.

A reader - and I am ashamed to say I have lost his letter - writes to say that
he enjoyed the Barry Cryer gags I quoted, but feels the funniest joke ever was
the late Bob Monkhouse's: "They laughed when I said I wanted to be a comedian.
Well, they're not laughing now. "I can see why he likes it. It has the
off-the-wall, out of left-field quality of a great gag.

Monkhouse was, shall we say, somewhat generous when it came to crediting jokes
to himself. My favourite was: "When it's my time to go, I want to die like my
father - peacefully in his sleep. Not screaming in terror, like his passengers."
He told that on TV in the mid-1990s, but then I heard the same joke on a
Garrison Keillor Lake Wobegon tape from years earlier. Maybe it actually dates
back to the 19th century.

In my continuing effort to get readers to write this column for me, I'd like to
ask what joke makes you laugh most. This being the Guardian, they don't have to
be clean, but perhaps not too filthy. And short, if at all possible.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

This could be a Lib Dem bonanza;
Inside politics

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 808 words


When the dust eventually settles on the MPs' expenses scandal, who will be the
biggest losers, and can there be any winners? In the short term, I suspect that
both Labour and the Conservatives will suffer. You would expect the governing
party to bleed most after such a shock to the system and this is the biggest one
I have seen in 25 years in the Westminster village.

When a party has been in power for 12 years, it is seen as the establishment,
and even more in the stocks. It is true that MPs' pay and expenses are decided
by MPs in a free vote, not by the Government. But the man in the Dog and Duck
will expect the Government to sweep the stables clean of manure
(taxpayer-funded, of course).

Gordon Brown tried to show leadership this week. But he was playing catch-up
because David Cameron was so quick out of the traps. He named and shamed his own
Shadow Cabinet, forcing several members to repay some of their expenses. He
threatened to discipline the Old Tories who had used their allowances to
maintain their country houses, swimming-pools and moats.

At a hastily called press conference, Mr Cameron looked the real prime
ministerial deal. He reminded me of Tony Blair at his best, sniffing the public
mood quickly and responding decisively. He also defined himself against his own
party's old guard to show that its leadership had changed, as Mr Blair did
repeatedly. Mr Cameron even penned a piece in The Sun, as Mr Blair did so often
that it looked as if he was on the payroll.

To his credit, Mr Cameron "outed" his right-hand man, Andrew MacKay, who
resigned for "double claiming" second-homes allowances with his MP wife. Mr
MacKay was not going to be exposed by The Daily Telegraph, which planned to
publish a much more innocuous story about him. Mr Cameron also put the MacKay
affair into the public domain immediately, even though this diverted media
attention from Elliot Morley, the former Labour minister who claimed for a
mortgage he no longer had.

In contrast, Labour's handling of the Morley case looks leaden-footed. We are
told that Nick Brown, the chief whip, knew of a problem "a week or so" before
the Telegraph broke the story, but that he and the Prime Minister did not know
the full facts until the eve of publication. So either the Labour high command
knew there was trouble ahead and did nothing to pre-empt it, or hoped the
Telegraph would not work out the real story, which it did. It would have been
more honest - and helped Labour - to announce that Mr Morley had paid back
£16,000 two weeks ago. Mr Brown would not have had to announce Mr Morley's
suspension as he launched Labour's election campaign. Lesson: openness can be
good politics.

Mr Cameron was tested in a crisis and passed. Despite that, I suspect the
expenses controversy will harm the Tories too. It doesn't work when Labour
attacks "Tory toffs". But it does damage the Tories when the voters see those
photographs of Mr Cameron and George Osborne in their Oxford University days. So
I suspect this week's pictures of the manor houses and moats will drag the
Tories down a bit in the opinion polls. Bad timing in a recession and all the
more need for Mr Cameron to convince people that, despite his privileged
background, he is New Tory, not Old Tory.

My hunch is that the Tories will do less well in the 4 June European Parliament
elections as a result of the expenses furore. The UK Independence Party is a
well-placed receptacle for a protest vote against the system. The only comfort
for Mr Cameron is that most of the defectors will probably come home to his
party at the general election.

Ukip could even push Labour into a humiliating fourth place in the Euro
elections, a meltdown by anyone's standards. Strange as it sounds, such a
disaster might not trigger a Labour coup against Mr Brown. If it had happened
without the expenses row, it would have been blamed on the Prime Minister. But
his own party might now judge that it would be unfair for him to take the rap
for a pre-election storm that had been brewing for 30 years, as expenses went up
because MPs' pay was held down.

My hunch is that this crisis for politics might be good news for the Liberal
Democrats. Many people don't see them as part of the now-discredited system.
They are good at attracting protest votes. The Telegraph's revelations about
their MPs were small beer. They voted for openness over expenses last year when
Labour and Tory MPs blocked it.

In Nick Clegg, they have a leader who "gets" the public anger. He recognises
that pay and expenses must be taken out of MPs' hands and wants all parties to
sign up in advance to whatever is proposed by the inquiry by the Committee on
Standards in Public Life. Mr Brown and Mr Cameron won't do that.

Might the Liberal Democrats answer the voters' call for a new politics? Here is
a big opportunity for Mr Clegg. And a big test.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 16, 2009 Saturday 8:40 PM GMT

Labour at 20% - just how low can Gordon Brown go?

BYLINE: By

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 312 words


Two opinion polls land and the findings are just beyond terrible for Labour. A
BPIX poll for the Mail on Sunday puts Labour on 20% - the party's lowest ever
rating in any opinion poll. Party strategists, such as general election supremo
Douglas Alexander, will now be feeling nostalgic for the days when Labour hit
the heights of the mid-20s. But there's bad news for all the main parties, with
others and UKIP on the rise in the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal.

The BPIX figures for Westminster give the Conservatives 42% (-3), Labour 20%
(-3) and Lib Dems 15% (-2%). That's a 22 point lead and if repeated in a general
election a Tory majority in the region of 200 seats would result.

On voting intentions for the European elections, the movement away from the main
parties is more pronounced.  In just a week the Tories are down 6 points at 30%,
UKIP is up 7% at 17% and level pegging with Labour (down 6 points). The Lib Dems

 are at 15%, down 1 point.

Brown is having an awful parliamentary crisis: only 17% think he's handled the
problem well, compared to 53% who think David Cameron has.

And in the ComRes poll for the Independent on Sunday the news is broadly the
same. The Tories are down 5 points at 40%, Labour is also down 5 points at 21.5%
and the Lib Dems are unchanged at 18%. But the combined total for other parties
is up 9 points at a staggering 21%. I can't remember a similar finding.

These numbers will obviously worry all the party leaders, apart from that
poltroon Nigel Farage (is he actually a hired actor?)

But in Number 10 it's a breakthrough weekend. With 20% in a poll this lot are
breaking all kind of records. The next question is whether it will get any
worse. One of this country's biggest and proudest political parties beaten into
fourth place in a European election? Poll numbers in the teens? Anything is
possible.

Hat-tip: ConservativeHome

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Highest paid MEPs feel free to stay away;
Europe

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 376 words


Throwing cash at elected representatives will not make them behave any better,
the European experience suggests. The worst attendance record at the European
Parliament has gone to the highest-paid MEPs - the Italians - research showed
yesterday.

The 78 Italians each earn ¤134,291 (£120,000) a year but came bottom of the 27
EU nations for turning up in Brussels and Strasbourg, appearing at 72 per cent
of sittings over the past five years.

This was more than 20 percentage points worse than the best attenders - the
Austrian MEPs - who attended an average of 93 per cent of parliamentary sessions
each, followed by 92 per cent for the Estonians, Finns, Slovaks and Poles.
Austrian

MEPs are the second-best paid in the EU, on ¤110,670 a year.

British MEPs had an 86 per cent appearance record, 17th out of 27 over the
course of the 2004-09 European Parliament, according to an analysis by
VoteWatch.eu, run by the London School of Economics and other European
academics.

MEPs earned the same as their national MPs in the last parliament, a practice
that will change after the European elections, when new members will earn
¤88,952, although existing members can continue on their old pay deal.

Attendance in the European Parliament is encouraged by a per diem allowance for
MEPs who sign in for ¤287 a day. This is intended to cover meals and hotels, but
over the 298 days in the last annual session could boost an MEP's income by
¤85,526.

The worst attendance record of any British MEP was held by Robert Kilroy-Silk,
the former television presenter who was elected for the UK Independence Party in
2004 but left to form his own party, Veritas, and then left that to become an
Independent.

He went to 54 per cent of sittings, placing him 774th out of the 777 MEPs. He
came top for the number of written questions with 1,921, including his memorable
allegation that Marks & Spencer used mirrors to distort women's body shapes to
make them look slimmer. M& S rejected the allegation. Mr Kilroy- Silk will not
be standing again.

The statistics also record voting trends, showing that Conservative MEPs voted
against the line of the main centre-right grouping 25 per cent of the time,
while Labour MEPs defied the Party of European Socialists in just 8 per cent of
votes.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

'Spiv' MPs are behaving like benefit cheats, says Tebbit

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1387 words


Lord Tebbit insists on meeting at the railway station because his house is being
renovated. Ah - another politician on the take. Is he charging a glitter loo
seat, swimming pool or bath plug to the taxpayer? "No, I'm not having my
wistaria cut or my sofas redecorated," the former Conservative Party chairman
says as the trains whizz by.

"I'm my own mole-catcher and I don't have a moat. But my wife needs some
adjustments to our home so that she can get around." The polecat has never been
a plutocrat..

In fact he is one of the few in Westminster who sacrificed a great deal
financially and personally to be an MP. He was injured and his wife Margaret was
permanently disabled in the 1984 IRA Brighton bombing, but he would never dream
of putting the cost of her carers on expenses. "I had better pay for the tea,"
he says, firmly, in the station café.

Margaret Thatcher's favourite Tory is spitting blood about the way MPs have been
cashing in. "The really outrageous ones are some of my old colleagues who should
know better," he says. "Douglas Hogg was certainly a bit pushy, Francis Maude
was very naughty. The idea of flipping, of having a house redecorated then
selling it is extraordinary." In his day, he insists, such things would have
been unthinkable. "The peer pressure was not to fiddle your allowance. The idea
of claiming for gardeners, furniture, cookers and cushions never entered my
mind. There was a secretarial allowance but the amounts were very small."
Everything changed in the 1990s.

"The more generous expenses were considered compensation for the fact that the
boys didn't think they were getting the sort of pay they expected," he says.
"But there's a spivery around it now. It's like the benefits culture. It reminds
me of the guy who is on disability benefit and goes out window cleaning. I call
them welfare junkies and I am afraid that is too close to the truth for some
MPs." He is shocked by politicians playing Monopoly at public expense. "A lot of
people who are very comfortably off were simply milking the system to enlarge
their property portfolio. The moats, the tennis courts, weren't necessities. The
whole thing should be replaced by a simple daily allowance for staying in London
overnight. Why should I as a taxpayer pay for their new flat-screen televisions?
They don't need all these lamps and rugs." The working-class boy from Essex
could not believe that Tory grandees had been claiming for horse manure and
helipads.

"The landed gentry shouldn't be the only ones able to afford being an MP but the
salary isn't terrible. I lost a hell of a lot of money going from being an
airline pilot to the Commons but I didn't do it for the money. This is all
symptomatic of what has been changing over the years." The decision to build the
Portcullis House extension to Parliament was, in his view, the first sign that
Westminster had its priorities wrong. "It was a ridiculous extravagance, showing
we had got too self-important.

I often look at it and think - how did we run the British Empire without it?
Well, rather easily actually.

It began to make MPs think of themselves as having rather grand jobs." He also
blames the professionalisation of politics. "When I arrived in 1970 almost
everyone had done another job. There were chaps who had been miners, people who
had worked in banks. They became MPs because they thought they had something to
contribute.

"Now they start out as political advisers. There's a political class, they are
very inward-looking, they don't understand life. It is more corrupt because they
have more in common with each other than with people outside." The man who once
ran Tory election campaigns finds it incredible that MPs get a "communications
allowance".

" I rather fancied myself as a communicator but I never needed £ 10,000." T he
Commons should, he believes, quickly come up with a new system rather than
handing the problem to an outside body. "If MPs are going to vote on how much
tax we pay or whether we should go to war then they should be capable of sorting
out their own affairs. They can't just get out of it by writing a cheque." David
Cameron, he thinks, handled the crisis quite well. "He seized the ground and
left the Prime Minister on the back foot but in the national interest it would
have been better if he and Gordon Brown could have stood shoulder to shoulder."
Lord Tebbit embodied Margaret Thatcher's transformation of the Tories from a
party of estate owners to one of estate agents. But it does not bother him that
an Old Etonian is back in charge. "Some of my best friends are toffs, I'm not
against them at all - I rather wish I had been one, it would have saved a lot of
bother not to have to worry about money. But like Michael Heseltine, who had to
buy his own furniture, I am the kind of man who has to kill his own moles." He
would, he says, still encourage somebody from a modest background to go into
politics. "I like to think I have the mood of the country; it's an advantage to
have been born on the wrong side of the tracks. I would say do it, but it will
cost you. I was unlucky because of the bombing in that it cost me more than
most." In 1992, the former MP for Chingford retired from the Commons to look
after his wife. Now 78, he is still working to help pay for professional carers,
who cost about £50,000 a year.

"I keep diversifying. My first cookery book is published soon, and I'm writing a
children's book." Does he regret that he was never prime minister? "It passed
through my mind but nobody could have done it as well as Margaret Thatcher," he
says. "When Hezza brought her down I came very close but I had promised my wife
I would leave frontline politics.

In retrospect maybe it was the wrong decision." Lord Tebbit is still in the
political game. This week he infuriated Mr Cameron by urging people to boycott
the Tories at next month's European elections. He insists he is not suggesting
that potential voters should switch to the UK Independence Party or the British
National Party but wants them to abstain. "I am not going to vote, myself, and
my advice to other people is don't vote for any of the three main parties. Use
the European elections to show your disapproval." Mr Cameron, he says, is in
danger of alienating traditional Conservatives by joining the race to the
centre. The Tory leader, in his view, needs to be clearer about his aims. This
week Mr Cameron said he would throw Lord Tebbit out of the Conservative Party if
he overstepped the mark. "I will be a Tory until I die, whether I am in the
party or not," the peer says. "Someone said to me once, would I ever leave the
party and I said no, possibly the party might leave me. They shouldn't have
woken the old bugger up. He has been quite quiet and now here he is with steam
coming out of his ears." The polecat may be nearly 80 but he has still not been
house-trained.

There is a twinkle in his eye as he turns to leave. "I'm off to examine the John
Lewis list - we've got some things to buy for our newly decorated house."

Norman Beresford Tebbit

Born March 29, 1931 Educated Edmonton County School Career before politics a
journalist on the Financial Times before joining the RAF, later becoming an
airline pilot and leader of Balpa, the pilots' union Political career
Conservative MP for Epping in 1970, then Chingford in 1974. When the Tories won
power in 1979, he was appointed a trade minister and was promoted to Employment
Secretary two years later, coining the phrase "get on your bike" to encourage
people to look for work. He became party chairman in 1985. When he resigned
after the 1987 election, Margaret Thatcher said that she "bitterly regretted
losing a like-minded person" from her Cabinet. As a backbench MP he provoked
controversy in 1990 by suggesting a "cricket test" to determine whether
immigrants had integrated into Britain. In 1984, he was injured and his wife
Margaret was disabled in the IRA bombing at the Grand Hotel in Brighton. In 1992
he was given a peerage and moved to the Lords.

Quick fire

Polecat or fatcat? There's no choice - polecat of course Moat or gate? I think
probably I'm more of a moat - although not one that has to be cleared Jaffa
Cakes or Rich Tea? Rich Tea John Lewis or Ikea? John Lewis Commons or Lords?
Lords Chicken tikka masala or fish and chips? Chicken tikka masala

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "I'd better pay for the tea," Lord Tebbit jokes. The former Tory
chairman says that the idea of using the taxpayer to fund property deals and
luxury items never entered his mind as an MP
BEN GURR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Angry electors let MacKay feel sharp edge of their tongue;
Bracknell

BYLINE: Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words


Are people angry about your expense claims, Andrew MacKay was asked as he faced
his constituents in Bracknell town centre yesterday (Chris Smyth writes). A
woman pushing a pram looked up: "I'm angry," she shouted. "They should be
ashamed, if you ask me." Laura Davies was out with her baby son. "I'm disgusted.
This is fraud. If it was any of us, we'd be in the courts," she said. "He should
resign." Mr MacKay hurries on.

Like many people in Bracknell, Ms Davies says that he has been a good
constituency MP. But she could not vote for him again.

There was plenty of this kind of anger directed at Mr Mackay, who has resigned
as a parliamentary aide to David Cameron. But there was also disappointment, a
bafflement that someone voters thought they knew had seen nothing wrong with a
system whereby he and his wife, the MP Julie Kirkbride, had in effect been
claiming the second-home allowance for both their properties.

"It's quite sad because my experience of him is he's a very hard-working
constituency MP," said Penny Lander, a planning co-ordinator. "But it's not
defensible, what he's done. He's used the system to the hilt." She was taken
aback that he had not at first realised the claims to be wrong. "People in
Westminster are insulated from real life," she said. "I would prefer an MP who
lives in the constituency and travels to the Commons." However, she added: "He
does deserve another chance to show he's learnt." Others were not so forgiving.
"I'm absolutely disgusted," said Jennifer Hooper, who works in an airline cabin
crew. "Sticking to the rules is not an excuse. I did vote for him and I regret
it." She wants the Tories to pick another candidate. "If someone has
questionable morals he shouldn't be in public service." Mr MacKay, who was
pressing on with meetings in his constituency, vowed that he would not resign as
an MP. "Not at all, it's business as usual," he said. He had arranged his
expenses according to the advice of the Fees Office, he told The Times. "I
wasn't aware they were wrong but clearly things have moved on." The messages he
had received from his constituents had been "overwhelmingly positive". Indeed,
as he entered a Citizens Advice Bureau - to discuss people's problems with the
recession - a couple of passers-by shouted their support. "I think he should
carry on - he's doing a great job," said Shiraz Ashraf, an IT specialist.

What about the expenses claims? "It's none of my business," he said.

Michael Phillips, who works at Heathrow, would not be voting for Mr MacKay
again: his vote would go to the UK Independence Party.

Ray Earwicker, the Lib Dems' prospective candidate, promised that were he
elected he would not claim a second-home allowance.

"It's only 30 miles from London and I can't understand how they can claim this,"
he said.

Would the outrage help him to overturn Mr MacKay's 12,000 majority? "One would
like to think so, but the electorate are saying - 'a plague on all your
houses'."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Davies: "I'm disgusted. He should go"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Only UKIP promises free vote on EU membership

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 100  words


I DISAGREE with Alan Brown (Letters, May 14) about the UK Independence Party
seeking to re-create our imperialist past. I plan to vote UKIP because Gordon
Brown and Co. have destroyed our democracy, and the Tories refuse to listen to
people.

Most of us want a vote over our continued EU membership but all three major
parties tell us they know what is best for us.

We joined the Common Market, as it was then billed, in the early Seventies. But
over the years, it has turned into a mainly unelected and unaccountable
bureaucracy that has taken over the running of this country.

R Dimmock, Dunstable, Beds

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary Who thought the unions would stay silent over
trouser-gate? They can't. They won't

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 632 words


With MPs humiliated and some on the road to oblivion, it was only a matter of
time before union types began using the disclosures to their own advantage. This
trend, wholly unwelcome, begins with veteran troublemaker Ian Bone. "As the son
of domestic servants I have been honoured to accept the position of general
secretary of the National Union of Moat Cleaners," he tells us. "With drastic
cuts in MPs' expenses there will be a knock-on effect with redundancies amongst
our members, something the do-gooders who do not understand the countryside
should bear in mind." There will be a day of action in the shadow of parliament
next Wednesday, he tells us. "We will then move on to Tory HQ, where we will be
joined by the National Union of Mole Catchers; Liberal Democrat HQ with the
National Union of Trouser Pressers; and Labour HQ, accompanied by the National
Union of Tudor Beam Makers." There's revolution in the air. This is it.

As the crisis widens and deepens, we continue to be interested in the
explanation of Douglas Hogg, aka Viscount Hailsham, as to why he was forced to
spend so much on the upkeep of his country estate. He and his wife spend the
week in London and therefore need to employ people, he said. Steph Booth, Labour
candidate, stepmum of Cherie, asks: "Is it logical, or even reasonable, to infer
that if his wife remained at home rather than accompanying him to London she
would, in fact, be donning wellies and overalls to clean out the moat?" No
Steph, it isn't, for Baroness Hogg is herself a high flyer. But they could muddy
themselves at the weekend.

No surprise given this backdrop that there is difficulty getting MPs signed up
for an all-expenses paid parliamentary visit to Africa, an event planned by the
all-party parliamentary Ghana group. We say it is a worthwhile project and the
timing is impeccable. But there is no explaining fear.

Who is watching BBC2's nocturnal transmissions of series two of The Wire, with
its tale of dock workers smuggling drugs and stealing valuables while struggling
to keep their union alive? Well, says the BBC, around half a million people
every episode. Keith Flett, our man on the shop floor, tells us why. "Series two
has a cult following among trade union officials, and while we clearly cannot
condone some of the activities of Bro Serbotka, any portrayal of the
vicissitudes of union organisation on mainstream TV is so rare as to be worth
watching." Bro Serbotka, for all his flaws, does fight the good fight.

With Euro elections just three weeks away, a fillip for Ukip - the party has
gained the endorsement of actor David Prowse, the man who played Darth Vader.
May the force be with the EU seemed a dangerous and catchy slogan. The Dark Lord
had to do something.

After a week of shock and trauma, a tale to uplift the spirit. A man goes into a
barber's in south London and asks for a short back and sides. As is customary,
the barber, a Cypriot, asks the customer about holidays. "Oh I've been cycling
in France," says the man. "Well, me, I've just been home to northern Cyprus,"
says the barber. "There's a Turkish family living in my parent's old home."
Prepare for a lecture on war, aggression and the failure of international
diplomacy, thinks the customer. Not a bit of it. "I met the lady of the house
and she let me take some photos," the barber tells him. "Then I met her little
girl and gave her some money to buy ice-cream." "Weren't you a bit annoyed that
they had taken your family's home?" asks the customer, now incredulous. "Nah,"
says the barber, "What's the point? I've got everything I need here, and the
Turkish family didn't take our home from us; it was the Turkish army. So I can
afford not to be bitter." A fine example, all things considered. A light in a
cold, dark world.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

Front: House of ill repute: heads roll as Westminster reels: Top Cameron adviser
resigns over expenses: PM's envoy suspended over mortgage claims: Peers guilty
of 'cash for amendments'

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words


Gordon Brown and David Cameron were last night battling to salvage the
reputation of parliament after the MPs' expenses scandal claimed the first
scalps from both major parties, amid signs that the crisis is in danger of
spiralling out of control.

Despondent MPs last night voiced fears that Britain may experience a milder
version of the "clean hands" affair that brought down Italy's postwar political
settlement in the 1990s. There were growing popular demands for MPs to be
prosecuted as common benefit cheats.

Both houses of parliament, and the two main parties, were mired in the expenses
and earnings scandal yesterday when:

Elliot Morley, a Labour former environment minister, was suspended from the
parliamentary Labour party after he admitted claiming £16,800 in mortgage
payments on his constituency home 20 months after repaying the loan. Morley
referred himself to John Lyon, the parliamentary standards commissioner.

Justice minister Shahid Malik was revealed to have claimed thousands of pounds
in taxpayer allowances on his second home while renting his main home. Malik had
run up the highest expenses claim of any MP, claiming second home allowances -
£66,827 over three years - on his house in London. He rented his main home in
his Dewsbury constituency at a discounted rate of less than £100 a week.

The veteran Conservative MP Andrew MacKay resigned as senior parliamentary
adviser to Cameron after jointly claiming £170,000 over four years on properties
with his wife, fellow Tory MP Julie Kirkbride. Cameron described his behaviour
as completely unacceptable after it was revealed that MacKay designated
Kirkbride's constituency flat in Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, as his main
residence, allowing him to claim the annual £24,006 additional costs allowance
on their joint London home. Kirkbride designated this property as her main
residence, allowing her to make claims on her constituency flat.

Two Labour peers were facing suspension from the House of Lords - the first
since 1642 - after a report found them guilty of offering to amend legislation
in exchange for payments. The Lords privileges committee found that Lord
Truscott and Lord Taylor of Blackburn had "failed to act on their personal
honour" after they offered their services to undercover reporters from the
Sunday Times posing as lobbyists who wanted to amend government legislation.

Michael Martin, the Commons Speaker, was on course to become a high-profile
casualty, amid growing anger at his response. Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, is
expected next week to become the first party leader to call for Martin to resign
after his frontbenchers said he no longer commands their confidence.

Senior ministers last night voiced the fear that the crisis shows no signs of
abating. "It gets worse every day," one cabinet minister said. The housing
minister, Margaret Beckett, was heckled on the BBC's Question Time programme
when the expenses issue was raised.

And a YouGov poll for the Sun last night showed the effect of the crisis on the
major parties. When asked about voting intentions in the European elections, the
Conservatives were on 28% (down from 37% last week) and Labour down to 19%, the
same as the UK Independence party. There was no sign of any surge in support for
the BNP.

The prime minister attempted to regain the initiative when he announced that
Morley had been suspended from the parliamentary Labour party and had been
sacked as his climate change envoy. Speak ing at the launch of Labour's European
and local election campaign in Derbyshire, Brown said: "Where disciplinary
action is necessary it will, and will immediately, be taken." He said that he
hoped to restore trust in politics.

Amid cabinet worries that Brown has struggled to command the political landscape
this week - as Cameron drew up tough procedures to deal with "wrong" expenses by
Tories - the Labour leadership drew up its own plan of action.

Nick Brown, the chief whip, is to ask Labour's ruling national executive
committee to rule next Tuesday on Morley and on Fabian Hamilton, the MP for
Leeds North East, whose expenses were questioned in yesterday's Telegraph.

There were further signs last night of a backlash against MPs of all parties. A
senior shadow minister, who has not been named by the Telegraph in its expose of
MPs' expenses, was yesterday asked by county councillors not to campaign for
next month's local elections.

The shadow minister said: "The whole political class is in trouble. There are
now no rules. We don't know where this is going to end. It has the ring of the
'clean hands' affair in Italy."

Martin Kettle, page 33

Leader comment, page 34

MPs' nemesis

How campaigning journalist Heather Brooke's five-year fight to lift the lid on
the can of worms that is Westminster's expenses is beginning to bear fruit

G2 cover story

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

National: Politics in crisis: Election campaign: Brown warns of swing to right
amid fears of coming fourth behind Ukip: Party's last few county councils at
risk in polls: Bad results may seek fresh push to change leader

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 635 words


Gordon Browntoday warned of a swing to the right and a loss of confidence in
public services unless faith is rapidly restored in British politics.

He was speaking at the launch of the Labour party's local and European election
campaigns in Ilkeston, Derbyshire - campaigns that could see the party lose
control of its last remaining county councils, followed by a fresh push to throw
Brown out to avoid a crushing defeat in next year's general election.

The prime minister was accompanied by eight cabinet ministers, including four
who have been the subject of allegations over expenses claims in the past week.
One Labour aide admitted he feared that John Prescott's "Go 4th" campaign,
dedicated to winning a fourth Labour term, will be renamed the "Come 4th"
campaign.

Such is the gloom over public anger at wave after wave of MPs milking the system
that ministers fear coming fourth behind the Tories, Liberal Democrats and Ukip
in the European elections what is likely to be a low turnout.

Brown spoke for 15 minutes, answered a range of banal questions from an invited
audience and asked cabinet ministers briefly to field issues in their brief such
as how Labour would create 3,500 Sure Start centres. Only the foreign secretary,
David Miliband, used his brief remarks to acknowledge the dangers lurking in the
collapse of trust because of the biggest crisis to hit the political elite for
decades. "The politics of hate," Miliband said, "gets traction when people feel
the mainstream parties are not addressing the real issues in the lives they
lead. We have to be able to show we do get it, and we are in touch, and we are
determined to push through reforms in the political system proposed by the prime
minister."

The irony +Ai at least this week +Ai of Jacqui Smith, the home secretary,
talking about community crime, Hazel Blears the need to restore civic pride or
of Margaret Beckett discussing rolling over mortgages seemed lost on an audience
so deferential that only one member mentioned sleaze. Even he said he was going
to ask about expenses, but felt his questions had already been addressed.

Brown, facing criticism for acting less decisively against his recalcitrant MPs
than David Cameron did, tried to address the issue head-on in his opening
remarks. He insisted: "The public was right to expect the highest standards of
everybody in public life. Where disciplinary action is necessary, it will
immediately be taken."

He also warned: "People's trust in paying for public services will be lessened
if there is less trust in politicians themselves," his first acknowledgment that
the crisis may prompt a swing to the right.

Privately cabinet ministers admitted their two major campaign themes - the need
to end isolation in Europe and the government success in limiting the
recession's impact - were going to be lost in the noise.

There was also disbelief that Elliot Morley, regarded as a saintly climate
change minister, could be involved in wrong-doing. One cabinet minister said:
"Normally these stories start to blow themselves out after a few days. This one
just seems to get bigger."

The prime minister insisted he had been arguing for some time that the expenses
system in the Commons was in need of reform since it was ancient, antiquated and
outdated.He added that most politicians wanted to serve the public interest and
not themselves. They were in public life for what they could give, and not what
they could get.

Briefly facing the media, Brown said he was angry at what had happened, but
sidestepped questions as to why he was not ordering ministers and backbenchers
to repay unethical claims, as David Cameron was demanding of his MPs.

The prime minister argued that it was better that a parliamentary committee
should check all claims over the past four years through independent audit.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

National: Politics in crisis: Election campaign: Political briefing: Minor
parties: the fringe benefits

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 537 words


Gordon Brown made a lightning visit to Derbyshire yesterday while David Cameron
dashed off to Cornwall. Not to walk in the Peak District or go surfing, but to
shore up votes ahead of highly uncertain local and European elections on 4 June.
What neither of the big parties knows is how angry voters will punish them for
the scandal of MPs expense claims. "Please don't come canvassing," some MPs are
being told.

For parties struggling on the fringe of mainstream politics, the past week has
been a godsend. From the Greens on the left via nationalists and Ukip to the BNP
on the right the joke is that a mole inside the establishment parties must be
working to destroy them. "There is no doubt whatsoever any longer, the BNP is
now mainstream," its leader, Nick Griffin, boasted midweek.

A Times-Populus poll this week cheered them all, including the Liberal
Democrats. The party rose 4%, to 22%, as Labour and Tories dropped 4% apiece
+Aito 26% and 39% respectively. The ragbag of "other" parties pocketed 4%, while
9% went undecided.

But few firm conclusions can safely be drawn. On 4 June, 27 counties, including
Labour's last remaining four (all at risk), plus seven unitary authorities (five
of them new, including the Lib Dems' stronghold of Cornwall), plus three elected
mayors, are at stake. The Tories have 1,234 seats at stake, Labour +Ai on a
steady decline since a peak of 11,000 in 1996 +Ai have a miserable 493, slightly
fewer than 513 Lib Dems.

They were last fought on the day in 2005 Tony Blair won a third term, but took a
beating over Iraq. Labour is braced to lose ground in the south, risking
becoming a northern party as the Tories have long been a southern party, unable
to recover in cities like Liverpool and Manchester. Lib Dems, who have benefited
from this geographical polarisation, are now on the defensive in the Cameron-led
recovery.

How well +Ai or badly +Ai brand Cameron works outside the Tory heartlands is the
key 2009 question, one of few straws Labour councillors clutch as they see their
activist base erode.

But it is the EU elections that may make serious waves when announced on Sunday
night. In 2004 Ukip's 2,650768 votes pushed the Lib Dems (2,452,327) into fourth
place. They got 12 MEPs apiece to the Tories' 27 and Labour's 19. With just over
1m votes the Greens elected two MEPs and may struggle to hold them: the UK seats
total is being cut from 78 to 72.

Lord Tebbit's hint that disaffected Tories might vote Ukip may bolster its
flagging vote. But what scares the big boys is the prospect that the BNP,
picking up angry Labour voters, will get a toehold in Europe and its lavish
party funding.

One seat, two or five +Ai predictions vary. With 6.4% in 2004 Griffin almost
crossed the 6.8% share of the vote needed to win a north-west seat under the
proportional party list system used. Voters do not even have to vote the racist
ticket, just stay at home. A low turnout here or in London, in either Midlands
region or in Yorkshire might push the BNP over the line.

In both France and Italy, tickets to Strasbourg were the key to unlocking
neo-fascist success in national politics. If that happens here Labour and Tory
MPs will carry the burden of knowing it was their own greedy fault.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

Worth a look - six articles worth reading today

LENGTH: 143 words

ABSTRACT

On MPs' expenses, fraud, Andrew MacKay, MPs' spouses, Labour's poll numbers, and
the EU elections

FULL TEXT

The  explains why it is asking readers to donate to its campaign to fund private
prosecutions against MPs alleged to have made dishonest expense claims.

But  that proving that MPs committed fraud could be difficult.

A  says 66% of Tory members think Andrew MacKay should stand down as an MP
following his contentious second-home claim.

takes pity on MPs' spouses.

A  puts Labour support at just 22%, its lowest rating on record, and the Tories
19 points ahead at 41%.

asks whether the poll means Ukip will do much better than expected in next
month's EU elections.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

Ukip, not BNP, set to benefit from anti-politics mood at EU elections

LENGTH: 337 words

ABSTRACT

Poll puts United Kingdom Independence party on 15%, compared to 3% for British
National party

FULL TEXT

The UK Independence party rather than the BNP appears to be the main beneficiary
of public disillusionment with the political elite, according to polling this
week.

In a YouGov survey for the Sun published today, 15% of voters said they would
vote Ukip in the coming European elections and 3% for the far-right British
National party.

Paul Nuttall, Ukip's chairman and a candidate for the European parliament in the
north-west of England, said: "This ties in with everything we are seeing when we
are out campaigning and everything we are hearing on the doorstep. It is good
that people are starting to see that the voice of protest is not the BNP but
Ukip."

This week Ukip said they would replace the expenses system with one similar to
that of Sweden, where second homes in Stockholm for members who live outside the
capital are provided by the parliament, the Riksdag, and let to MPs free of
charge.

A Times/Populus poll this week put Ukip on 6% and the BNP on 2%. BNP polling
figures may be an underestimate, however, since voters can be reluctant to
declare their support for that party.

The BNP launched their local and European election campaign this week
concentrating on the expenses scandal. Four men in pig masks appeared on the
stage behind Nick Griffin, the party leader, stuffing fake money into their
pockets before actors dressed as "workers" wearing fluorescent jackets and hard
hats beat them away with placards.

Griffin claimed his party would win six or seven seats in the European
parliament at the elections.

About 100 workers have told Royal Mail bosses in Bristol and Somerset that they
refuse to deliver BNP leaflets. A Royal Mail spokesperson said: "Where possible
we will try to be flexible and sensitive to individual personal circumstances or
beliefs. However, we need to balance this with Royal Mail's legal obligations
under the Representation of People Act, to deliver election material."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Urban Notebook

BYLINE: Susie Rushton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 451 words


Why these bogus neighbourhoods?

You think you know your way around town, and then a marketing campaign comes
along and scrambles the map. This week, in an article about a shop opening
attended by Peaches Geldof, below, I read for the first time about an area
called the "Newburgh Quarter". It took a couple of minutes to register that this
was actually a place in London.

To me, the words evoked a district of bohemian boutiques in a Californian city,
with maybe a guy playing jazz guitar in the corner of a sun-drenched square,
picturesque laundry swagged across balconies, that sort of thing. I was
disappointed to learn it's just a make-over of plain old Newburgh Street, a
short parade near Carnaby Street of independent menswear shops, a pub whose
patrons spill on to the pavement every night of the year, and a Brazilian cafe
that sells good cakes but is always empty when I pass.

Perhaps they got the idea from the newly-minted "Opera Quarter", which isn't in
a Paris arrondissement and, according to its website, doesn't even include the
Royal Opera House itself, but basically designates two blocks of eateries near
the London Transport Museum.

You can't blame shopkeepers and restaurateurs for getting together to promote
their area, but the trend for explicitly "quarterising" London feels a bit fake.
In any other city, the word celebrates the historic presence of a particular
ethnic group or demographic. But I guess the burghers of Carnaby Street didn't
get positive market-research feedback for "The Skinny-Assed Bike Courier
Quarter".

Not really one for life-saving

Mounted on a pillar between the Paul bakery where I buy my coffee and the
Starbucks where I used to, is a big, green plastic box. It's a defibrillator. I
noticed it yesterday for the first time and I've got to say, I was worried: If a
banker went into cardiac arrest on his way to Canary Wharf Tube station, would I
know how to use it? Or would I accidentally help him on his way and give myself
a nasty burn at the same time? "You're not supposed to use it," says my
colleague. "It's there for the emergency services." Thank God. I can't do
anything before I've had a coffee, let alone save a life.

Confused by Ukip

Another week, another interesting leaflet slipped through the door, this time
from the UK Independence Party (Ukip). Among the Union Jacks and giant pound
signs is a photo of Sir Winston Churchill, whom the party appears to be putting
forward for the European elections, or at least has adopted as its mascot. Did I
get that right? The rest of the hand-out is also quite confused. "Say NO to
giving the EU £40m a day" it screams, and then, in mega-type on the reverse, the
donation hotline to Ukip's own treasury. Bin.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

New Lowbour;
GOVERNMENT ROCKED BY SUN POLL Just 22% back Brown Tories set for landslide Voter
fury at MP greed Cop probe as heads roll

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; GRAEME WILSON; MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 859 words


GORDON Brown was rocked last night after support for Labour plummeted to an
all-time low of just 22 per cent.

The rating, in a YouGov survey for The Sun, would see David Cameron land a
massive general election win - with a Commons majority of 152.

Labour currently has 350 seats, a working majority of 64.

But there was BAD news for Mr Cameron too in our poll.

The expenses sleaze scandal has dented the Tory lead for next month's European
elections.

They have dropped a staggering NINE points in just a week.

Details of our devastating survey came as the revelations about Westminster
expenses continued to claim new victims.

Last night it was revealed former Cabinet rebel Clare Short was forced to pay
back £8,000 in claims. Ms Short had pocketed the full cost of her mortgage for
2½ years - when she was entitled to claim only for the interest.

The MP, an independent after quitting Tony Blair's Cabinet over the Iraq War,
paid back the money in 2006.

Manure

Commons documents also reveal that over the past four years Miss Short has
submitted regular claims for decorating at her second home, including hundreds
of pounds worth of work to a summer house and conservatory. She has also
lavished taxpayers' money on her porch, patio and kitchen.

Our YouGov survey puts the Tories on 41 per cent, Labour on 22 per cent and the
Lib- Dems third with 19 per cent.

A number of Cabinet ministers would lose their seats if The Sun's survey was
matched at the general election, which must take place before June 2010.

Chancellor Alistair Darling, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, defence supremo John
Hutton and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith would all go.

But the Tories will be rocked by our survey too. It showed that support in the
Euro elections has fallen from 37 per cent to 28 per cent in seven days as
voters show their anger over the way senior Conservatives have claimed for
manure, chandeliers and moat-cleaning.

Labour were already on a low base of 22 per cent for the European Parliament
elections on June 4, but have now dropped to 19 points.

Mr Cameron had been desperate to win at least a 40 per cent share of the vote.

And June 4 will be the last real chance for voters to show their support for the
Tories before Mr Brown - launching Labour's Euro campaign in Kirk Hallam,
Derbyshire, yesterday - announces a general election. However, our survey showed
voters did see Mr Cameron as the political leader most likely to tackle the
issue of expenses.

Most brutally for all politicians, six out of ten voters believe MPs have been
"deliberately abusing" the expenses system and ripping taxpayers off.

Only two per cent say MPs are "reasonably honest" and that "few, if any, have
not been deliberately abusing the allowances system".

The damning verdict came as senior cops held crisis talks with Commons
officials, raising the prospect of a criminal investigation into the behaviour
of some MPs.

The high-level meeting with Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner Allan
Gibson came as heads finally started to roll at Westminster.

Former agriculture minister Elliot Morley was suspended by Labour for claiming
£16,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. Mr Morley said he carried on
claiming £800 a month for 18 months by "mistake".

Police have received a formal complaint about Mr Morley's claims from the
Taxpayers' Alliance.

It promised to launch a private prosecution if the police do not act.

Earlier, one of David Cameron's closest aides, Andrew MacKay, was forced to quit
as his political secretary after claiming thousands of pounds in second home
allowances on the London house he shares with Tory MP wife, Julie Kirkbride.

The couple then doubled their money, because Ms Kirkbride claimed thousands more
in second home expenses on her constituency home.

Since 2001, the pair are believed to have pocketed £280,000. Mr MacKay may now
have to pay back £140,000.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

1 HOW WOULD YOU VOTE IN A GENERAL ELECTION? Con Lab Lib Dem Other UKIP SNP/PCY
BNP Green Respect Other 41% 22% 19% 18% 6% 4% 4% 3% 1% 0%

2 HOW WILL YOU VOTE IN THE EU ELECTIONS? 29% 20% 19% 15% 6% 4% 3% 3%
Conservative Other 1% UKIP Green Labour Liberal Democrat SNP/PC BNP

3 Most MPs have been abusing the allowances system and ripping us off Most MPs
are reasonably honest, but a significant minority have been abusing the
allowances system Almost all MPs are reasonably honest; few, if any, have been
abusing the allowances system Don't know WHICH STATEMENT BEST SUMS UP YOUR VIEW
OF MPs? 60% 35% 2% 3%

4 More than £150,000 a year 1% £130 -150,000 1% £110 -129,000 1% £100 -109,000
3% £90 - 99,000 4% £80 - 89,000 6% £70 -79,000 9% £60 - 69,000 14% £50 - 59,000
15% £40 - 49,000 12% £30 - 39,000 12% HOW MUCH SHOULD MPs EARN?

5 WHICH LEADER ARE YOU CONFIDENT COULD FIX EXPENSES SCANDAL? Very 7% 21% 31% 35%
24% 33% 20% 18% 9% 38% 24% 17% Not very Not at all Fairly Gordon Brown David
Cameron Nick Clegg

6 'Flipping' by switching home allowances Claiming for work done on things like
their moats, swimming pools or tennis court Claiming for everyday purchases like
biscuits, dog food and feather dusters 86% 88% 75% WHICH OF THESE IS WORSE?
Source: YouGov Sample: 1,814 UK adults

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE Conservatives would win a Commons majority of 152 if the results of
The Sun's survey were to be repeated in the next general election.
Praying for time ... Brown yesterday
Suspended ... MP Elliot Morley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

New Lowbour;
GOVERNMENT ROCKED BY SUN POLL

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE- WATSON; GRAEME WILSON; MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 893 words


GORDON Brown was rocked last night after support for Labour plummeted to an
all-time low of just 22 per cent.

The rating, in a YouGov survey for The Sun, would see David Cameron land a
massive general election win - with a Commons majority of 152.

Labour currently has 350 seats, a working majority of 64.

But there was BAD news for Mr Cameron too in our poll.

The expenses sleaze scandal has dented the Tory lead for next month's European
elections.

They have dropped a staggering NINE points in just a week.

Details of our devastating survey came as the revelations about Westminster
expenses continued to claim new victims.

Last night it was revealed former Cabinet rebel Clare Short was forced to pay
back £8,000 in claims. Ms Short had pocketed the full cost of her mortgage for
2½ years - when she was entitled to claim only for the interest.

The MP, an independent after quitting Tony Blair's Cabinet over the Iraq War,
paid back the money in 2006.

Manure

Commons documents also reveal that over the past four years Miss Short has
submitted regular claims for decorating at her second home, including hundreds
of pounds worth of work to a summer house and conservatory.

She has also lavished taxpayers' money on her porch, patio and kitchen.

Our YouGov survey puts the Tories on 41 per cent, Labour on 22 per cent and the
Lib Dems - led by Nick Clegg - third with 19 per cent.

A number of Cabinet ministers would lose their seats if The Sun's survey was
matched at the general election, which must take place before June 2010.

Chancellor Alistair Darling, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, defence supremo John
Hutton and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith would all go.

But the Tories will be rocked by our survey too. It showed that support in the
Euro elections has fallen from 37 per cent to 28 per cent in seven days as
voters show their anger over the way senior Conservatives have claimed for
manure, chandeliers and moat-cleaning.

Labour were already on a low base of 22 per cent for the European Parliament
elections on June 4, but have now dropped to 19 points.

Mr Cameron had been desperate to win at least a 40 per cent share of the vote.
And June 4 will be the last real chance for voters to show support for the
Tories before Mr Brown - launching Labour's Euro campaign in Kirk Hallam,
Derbys, yesterday - announces a general election.

However, our survey showed voters did see Mr Cameron as the political leader
most likely to tackle the issue of expenses. A tiny two per cent say MPs are
"reasonably honest" and that "few, if any, have not been deliberately abusing
the allowances system".

The damning verdict came as senior cops held crisis talks with Commons
officials, raising the prospect of a criminal investigation into the behaviour
of some MPs.

The high-level meeting with Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner Allan
Gibson came as heads finally started to roll at Westminster.

Former agriculture minister Elliot Morley was suspended by Labour for claiming
£16,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. Mr Morley said he carried on
claiming £800 a month for 18 months by "mistake".

Police have received a formal complaint from the Taxpayers' Alliance over his
claims. It vowed to launch a private prosecution if they do not act.

Earlier, one of David Cameron's closest aides, Andrew MacKay, was forced to quit
as his political secretary after claiming thousands of pounds in second home
allowances on the

London house he shares with Tory MP wife Julie Kirkbride.

The couple then doubled their money, because Ms Kirkbride claimed thousands more
in second home expenses on her constituency home.

Since 2001, the pair are believed to have pocketed £280,000. Mr MacKay may now
have to pay back £140,000.

Meanwhile, a senior backbencher publicly called for Commons Speaker Michael
Martin to go over his reaction to the expenses scandal.

Mr Martin had wanted a police inquiry into how the claim details were leaked to
the media.

Tory Richard Shepherd said the Commons could not have a fresh start under his
leadership - as the number of MPs signing a "no confidence" motion to unseat the
Speaker reached double figures.

Last night ex welfare minister Frank Field emerged as a strong contender for the
job.

g.pascoewatson@ the-sun.co.uk

1 2 4 3 HOW WOULD YOU VOTE IN A GENERAL ELECTION? Con Lab Lib Dem Other UKIP
SNP/PCY BNP Green Respect Other Most MPs have been ripping us off Most MPs are
reasonably honest, but some rip us off HOW WILL YOU VOTE IN THE EU ELECTIONS?
41% 22% 19% 18% 6% 4% 4% 3% 1% 0% HOW MUCH SHOULD WHICH STATEMENT BEST SUMS UP
YOUR VIEW OF MPs? 60% 35% 2% 3% 29% 20% 19% 15% 6% 4% 3% Conservative Other 1%
UKIP Green Labour Liberal Democrat SNP/ PC BNP Almost all MPs are reasonably
honest Don't know 6 5 More than £150,000 a year 1% £130 -150,000 1% £110
-129,000 1% £100 -109,000 3% £90 - 99,000 4% £80 - 89,000 6% £70 -79,000 9% £60
- 69,000 14% £50 - 59,000 15% £40 - 49,000 12% £30 - 39,000 12% WHICH LEADER ARE
YOU CONFIDENT COULD FIX EXPENSES SCANDAL? 'Flipping' by switching home
allowances Claiming for work done on things like their moats, swimming pools or
tennis court Claiming for everyday purchases like biscuits, dog food and dusters
86% 88% 75% VOTERS OUTRAGED AT MPs' ANTICS Very 7% 21% 31% 35% 24% 33% 20% 18%
9% 38% 24% 17% Not very Not at all Fairly Gordon Brown David Cameron Nick Clegg
Source: YouGov Sample: 1,814 UK adults

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Praying for time ... Brown yesterday
Threat . . Speaker Martin
THE Conservatives would win a Commons majority of 152 if the results of The
Sun's survey were to be repeated in the next general election. Losers . . Smith,
Darling, Hutton, Straw face defeat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

New Lowbour;
GOVERNMENT ROCKED BY SUN POLL Just 22% back Brown Tories set for landslide Voter
fury at MP greed Cop probe as heads roll

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; GRAEME WILSON; MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 869 words


GORDON Brown was rocked last night after support for Labour plummeted to an
all-time low of just 22 per cent.

The rating, in a YouGov survey for The Sun, would see David Cameron land a
massive general election win - with a Commons majority of 152.

Labour currently has 350 seats, a working majority of 64.

But there was BAD news for Mr Cameron too in our poll.

The expenses sleaze scandal has dented the Tory lead for next month's European
elections.

They have dropped a staggering NINE points in just a week.

Details of our devastating survey came as the revelations about Westminster
expenses continued to claim new victims.

Last night it was revealed that former Cabinet rebel Clare Short was forced to
pay back £8,000 in claims.

She had pocketed the full cost of her mortgage for 2½ years - when she was
entitled to claim only for the interest.

The MP, an independent after quitting Tony Blair's Cabinet over the Iraq War,
paid back the money in 2006.

Manure

Commons documents also show that over the past four years Ms Short has submitted
regular claims for decorating at her second home, including hundreds of pounds
of work to a summer house and conservatory. She's also lavished taxpayers' cash
on her porch, patio and kitchen.

Our YouGov survey puts the Tories on 41 per cent, Labour on 22 per cent and the
Lib Dems third with 19 per cent.

A number of Cabinet ministers would lose their seats if The Sun's survey was
matched at the general election, which must take place before June 2010.

Chancellor Alistair Darling, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, defence supremo John
Hutton and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith would all go.

But the Tories will be rocked by our survey too. It showed support in the Euro
elections has fallen from 37 per cent to 28 per cent in seven days as voters
show their anger over the way senior Conservatives have claimed for manure,
chandeliers and moat-cleaning.

Labour were already on just 22 per cent for the Euro Parliament elections on
June 4, but have now dropped to 19 points.

However, our survey showed voters did see Mr Cameron as the political leader
most likely to tackle the issue of expenses.

And last night the Tory leader told a public meeting in Arbroath the expenses
scandal was SICKENING.

He said: "We owe everyone a big apology - and owe it to people to sort it out.

"That's why I've said to my MPs that every claim they make has to go on the
internet. They cannot claim for food or patio heaters. No more changing the
designation of homes.

"We have to rebuild, brick by brick, the confidence we need in our political
system. What's happening now is bad for our politics and bad for the UK."

In our survey, six out of ten voters said they believe MPs have been
"deliberately abusing" the expenses system and ripping taxpayers off.

Only TWO per cent said MPs are "reasonably honest".

The damning verdict came as senior cops held crisis talks with Commons officials
- raising the prospect of a criminal probe into the behaviour of some MPs.

The high-level meeting with Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner Allan
Gibson came as heads finally started to roll at Westminster.

Former agriculture minister Elliot Morley was suspended by Labour for claiming
£16,000 for a mortgage he'd already repaid. Mr Morley said he carried on
claiming £800 a month for 18 months by "mistake".

Police have received a formal complaint about his claims from the Taxpayers'
Alliance. It promised to launch a private prosecution if cops don't act.

And, one of Mr Cameron's closest aides, Andrew MacKay, was forced to quit as his
political secretary after claiming thousands of pounds in second home allowances
on the London house he shares with Tory MP wife, Julie Kirkbride.

The couple DOUBLED their money, because Ms Kirkbride claimed thousands more in
second home expenses on her constituency home.

Since 2001, the pair are believed to have pocketed £280,000.

Mr MacKay may now have to pay back £140,000.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

1 HOW WOULD YOU VOTE IN A GENERAL ELECTION? Con Lab Lib Dem Other UKIP SNP/PCY
BNP Green Respect Other 41% 22% 19% 18% 6% 4% 4% 3% 1% 0%

2 HOW WILL YOU VOTE IN THE EU ELECTIONS? 29% 20% 19% 15% 6% 4% 3% 3%
Conservative Other 1% UKIP Green Labour Liberal Democrat SNP/PC BNP

3 Most MPs have been abusing the allowances system and ripping us off Most MPs
are reasonably honest, but a significant minority have been abusing the
allowances system Almost all MPs are reasonably honest; few, if any, have been
abusing the allowances system Don't know WHICH STATEMENT BEST SUMS UP YOUR VIEW
OF MPs? 60% 35% 2% 3%

4 More than £150,000 a year 1% £130 -150,000 1% £110 -129,000 1% £100 -109,000
3% £90 - 99,000 4% £80 - 89,000 6% £70 -79,000 9% £60 - 69,000 14% £50 - 59,000
15% £40 - 49,000 12% £30 - 39,000 12% HOW MUCH SHOULD MPs EARN?

5 WHICH LEADER ARE YOU CONFIDENT COULD FIX EXPENSES SCANDAL? Very 7% 21% 31% 35%
24% 33% 20% 18% 9% 38% 24% 17% Not very Not at all Fairly Gordon Brown David
Cameron Nick Clegg

6 'Flipping' by switching home allowances Claiming for work done on things like
their moats, swimming pools or tennis court Claiming for everyday purchases like
biscuits, dog food and feather dusters 86% 88% 75% WHICH OF THESE IS WORSE?
Source: YouGov Sample: 1,814 UK adults

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Praying for time ... Brown yesterday
Suspended ... MP Elliot Morley
Losers . . Smith, Darling, Hutton, Straw face defeat
THE Conservatives would win a Commons majority of 152 if the results of The
Sun's survey were to be repeated in the next general election.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

New Lowbour;
GOVERNMENT ROCKED BY SUN POLL Just 22% back Brown Tories set for landslide Voter
fury at MP greed Cop probe as heads roll

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; GRAEME WILSON; MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 995 words


GORDON Brown was rocked last night after support for Labour plummeted to an
all-time low of just 22 per cent.

The rating, in a YouGov survey for The Sun, would see David Cameron land a
massive general election win - with a Commons majority of 152.

Labour currently has 350 seats, a working majority of 64.

But there was BAD news for Mr Cameron too in our poll.

The expenses sleaze scandal has dented the Tory lead for next month's European
elections.

They have dropped a staggering NINE points in just a week.

Details of our devastating survey came as the revelations about Westminster
expenses continued to claim new victims.

Last night it was revealed former Cabinet rebel Clare Short was forced to pay
back £8,000 in claims. Ms Short had pocketed the full cost of her mortgage for
2½ years - when she was entitled to claim only for the interest.

The MP, an independent after quitting Tony Blair's Cabinet over the Iraq War,
paid back the money in 2006.

Manure

Commons documents also reveal that over the past four years Miss Short has
submitted regular claims for decorating at her second home, including hundreds
of pounds worth of work to a summer house and conservatory.

She has also lavished taxpayers' money on her porch, patio and kitchen.

Our YouGov survey puts the Tories on 41 per cent, Labour on 22 per cent and the
Lib Dems - led by Nick Clegg - third with 19 per cent.

A number of Cabinet ministers would lose their seats if The Sun's survey was
matched at the general election, which must take place before June 2010.

Chancellor Alistair Darling, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, defence supremo John
Hutton and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith would all go.

But the Tories will be rocked by our survey too. It showed that support in the
Euro elections has fallen from 37 per cent to 28 per cent in seven days as
voters show their anger over the way senior Conservatives have claimed for
manure, chandeliers and moat-cleaning.

Labour were already on a low base of 22 per cent for the European Parliament
elections on June 4, but have now dropped to 19 points.

Mr Cameron had been desperate to win at least a 40 per cent share of the vote.
And June 4 will be the last real chance for voters to show support for the
Tories before Mr Brown - launching Labour's Euro campaign in Kirk Hallam,
Derbys, yesterday - announces a general election.

However, our survey showed voters did see Mr Cameron as the political leader
most likely to tackle the issue of expenses. A tiny two per cent say MPs are
"reasonably honest" and that "few, if any, have not been deliberately abusing
the allowances system".

The damning verdict came as senior cops held crisis talks with Commons
officials, raising the prospect of a criminal investigation into the behaviour
of some MPs.

The high-level meeting with Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner Allan
Gibson came as heads finally started to roll at Westminster.

Former agriculture minister Elliot Morley was suspended by Labour for claiming
£16,000 for a mortgage he had already repaid. Mr Morley said he carried on
claiming £800 a month for 18 months by "mistake".

Police have received a formal complaint from the Taxpayers' Alliance over his
claims. It vowed to launch a private prosecution if they do not act.

Earlier, one of David Cameron's closest aides, Andrew MacKay, was forced to quit
as his political secretary after claiming thousands of pounds in second home
allowances on the London house he shares with Tory MP wife Julie Kirkbride.

The couple then doubled their money, because Ms Kirkbride claimed thousands more
in second home expenses on her constituency home.

Since 2001, the pair are believed to have pocketed £280,000. Mr MacKay may now
have to pay back £140,000.

Meanwhile, a senior backbencher publicly called for Commons Speaker Michael
Martin to go over his reaction to the expenses scandal.

Mr Martin had wanted a police inquiry into how the claim details were leaked to
the media.

Tory Richard Shepherd said the Commons could not have a fresh start under his
leadership - as the number of MPs signing a "no confidence" motion to unseat the
Speaker reached double figures.

Last night ex welfare minister Frank Field emerged as a strong contender for the
job.

g.pascoewatson@ the-sun.co.uk

my View

By GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON Political Editor

THE snouts-in-the-trough scandal will deal a crushing blow to Gordon Brown and
David Cameron where it counts - at the ballot box.

Our survey shows Labour's standing with voters has NEVER been so low.

Its MPs fear for their jobs and are already panicking as they prepare to be
hammered in June's Euro and local elections.

There will now be fresh questions on Mr Brown's leadership - but the huge drop
in Tory support at the Euro polls shows how badly Mr Cameron's party has been
hit by sleaze.

He may be set for a general election landslide but nothing's for granted.

1 HOW WOULD YOU VOTE IN A GENERAL ELECTION? Con Lab Lib Dem Other UKIP SNP/PCY
BNP Green Respect Other 41% 22% 19% 18% 6% 4% 4% 3% 1% 0%

2 HOW WILL YOU VOTE IN THE EU ELECTIONS? 29% 20% 19% 15% 6% 4% 3% 3%
Conservative Other 1% UKIP Green Labour Liberal Democrat SNP/PC BNP

3 Most MPs have been ripping us off Most MPs are reasonably honest, but some rip
us off WHICH STATEMENT BEST SUMS UP YOUR VIEW OF MPs? 60% 35% 2% 3% Almost all
MPs are reasonably honest Don't know

4 More than £150,000 a year 1% £130 -150,000 1% £110 -129,000 1% £100 -109,000
3% £90 - 99,000 4% £80 - 89,000 6% £70 -79,000 9% £60 - 69,000 14% £50 - 59,000
15% £40 - 49,000 12% £30 - 39,000 12% HOW MUCH SHOULD MPs EARN?

5 WHICH LEADER ARE YOU CONFIDENT COULD FIX EXPENSES SCANDAL? Very 7% 21% 31% 35%
24% 33% 20% 18% 9% 38% 24% 17% Not very Not at all Fairly Gordon Brown David
Cameron Nick Clegg

6 Flipping' by switching home allowances Claiming for work done on things like
their moats, swimming pools or tennis court Claiming for everyday purchases like
biscuits, dog food and dusters 86% 88% 75% VOTERS OUTRAGED AT MPs' ANTICS
Source: YouGov Sample: 1,814 UK adults

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE Conservatives would win a Commons majority of 152 if the results of
The Sun's survey were to be repeated in the next general election.
Threat . . Speaker Martin
Praying for time ... Brown yesterday
Losers . . Smith, Darling, Hutton, Straw face defeat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 15, 2009 Friday 10:05 AM GMT

Who helped the BNP?

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 318 words


A big bravo (I thought a foreign word would be appropriate here) to Tim
Montgomerie and his colleagues who have gone where the politicians hesitate to
tread by taking on the BNP. They have produced this effective video clip that
makes a fundamental point: there is nothing British about the BNP.

Our political masters are terrified that the exposure of their venality will
drive angry voters into the arms of the extremist parties on June 4, and there's
certainly evidence out there that UKIP and the BNP (and I accept it is unfair to
bracket the two) will benefit, whether through the proportional system for the
Euro elections or in council areas where white bitterness is at its strongest.
The Conservatives have decided to avoid talking about the BNP to deny them
publicity, but that's the party they fear the most. Thankfully on Monday night
in Nuneaton David Cameron ignored the 'no go' rule by laying into the fascists
and urging Conservative activists not to "rush into the arms" of the far right
by talking up immigration.

But who is responsible for this sudden drift to the extremes? Who must take
responsibility for the rage of British voters, which was so in evidence among
those in the audience for Question Time last night? In normal times it would be
ridiculous to accuse leading politicians of helping the BNP. but these are not
normal times, and only now do we see how little noticed actions at Westminster
can have terrible consequences. How about Gordon Brown, who didn't bother to
vote to abolish the John Lewis list last summer? Or those who voted to keep it,
like Jacqui Smith or Andy Burnham, not to mention Tories too numerous to name?
Or Harriet Harman for defying the High Court and the Information Tribunal by
exempting MPs' addresses from publication? And on and on. We should look to all
those whose defective moral compasses have, in small but terrible ways, helped
the loathsome BNP.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Letters & emails

SECTION: LETTERS; 25

LENGTH: 122 words


THE solution to the present mess is a complete change in politics.

The three major parties have let us down badly but, even so, we must not be
tempted to vote for the left-wing extremism of the Greens or the right-wing
nastiness of the BNP.

I can think of only one party to support in the EU elections - the one which is
truly on the side of the people, UKIP.

LES ARNOTT, Sheffi eld.

A HUGE thank you to all involved in BBC1's Ashes To Ashes for the brilliant, yet
utterly shocking episode they gave us this week!

ANNI RUECROFT, Isle of Wight.

NICE to see pictures of Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace in The Goss the other day and
I'm really looking forward to reading her autobiography.

Hope the book does well, she deserves it.

SARAH SMITH, Cleveland.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Crisis halts Whitehall

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 232  words


THE Westminster sleaze crisis is paralysing the Government, senior Whitehall
insiders admitted yesterday.

Ministers have virtually given up work while officials have stopped taking them
seriously in anticipation that many may soon be sacked from the frontbench or
lose their seats in a general election.

Whitehall sources say the Civil Service has ground to a virtual halt.

One said: "The Government is falling apart internally because of the revelations
about expenses and the result is paralysis in the Civil Service.

"We may see a few initiatives over the coming weeks but basically everything is
on hold until after the general election. Ministers don't expect Labour to be
re-elected and nor do their officials. No proper work is being done."

The insider described the expenses scandal as a "huge distraction - if your
minister becomes discredited he loses clout and so do you as a civil servant."

Some civil servants even fear it's so bad that the PM may be forced to call a
general election to placate public fury. It could lead to a massive clearout of
shamed MPs. Despite the growing row, he will today launch Labour's campaign for
the Euro and county council elections on June 4.

Mr Brown will insist the battle with the Tories will be a choice between
"investing or cutting our way out of the recession." Labour is braced for a huge
backlash from voters and could end up fourth behind UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP's for Tories nostalgic for our imperialist past

SECTION: LETTERS; 35

LENGTH: 86  words


THE UK Independence Party consists mainly of disaffected Tories of a certain age
who live in the past and would like to relive our imperialist past. So I
disagree with Ann Masters (Letters, May 13) and suggest to her that the world
has moved on.

In my lifetime, Europe has been at peace, which should continue now that so many
East European countries have joined the EU. The only aspect of the Union that
needs changing is the abolition of the Lisbon Treaty, which has created a
needless expense.

Alan Brown, Reading, Berks

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday

Reply Letters and emails: Leadership changes and Labours road to ruin

BYLINE: Kenneth Moss

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 156 words


Polly Toynbee sometimes hits the nail a bit too hard on the head (Plot it now.
Do it fast. By 5 June, Brown must go, 12 May). Everyone is sharpening axes ready
for Mr Brown. Is this wise? We all know his faults and mistakes; we've been
exaggerating them for weeks. What we are not noticing is that he and Alistair
Darling now seem to be steering the country towards safety. Of course there will
be a price to be paid - but I cannot say I remember any recognisable warnings
from those now throwing stones at him. To pretend the recession is all his fault
is neither accurate nor laudable.

Changing a skipper, the most experienced navigator, in the middle of a storm,
seems to me as good an indicator of suicidal tendencies as one could wish for.
The Tories have no one competent either. The press ignore the unmistakable
competence of the Lib Dems. The Greens are just that. Ukip, BNP? - where did I
put those straitjackets?

Kenneth Moss

Norwich

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

BNP targets North-west and West Midlands, but is running short of cash

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 479 words


THE BNP is to launch a "monumental push" to secure its first MEPs by bringing
together key activists from across the country to target two regions in the
forthcoming European elections.

Though the party has been keen to suggest it is running a national campaign,
secret memos sent to activists suggest that a funding shortfall has forced it to
focus all its efforts into securing seats in the North-west and the West
Midlands. The memo, obtained by the anti-fascist group Searchlight, instructs
activists in Scotland and the North-east to head to the North-west ahead of the
election on 4 June, while those in the Midlands and the South-west should help
boost the campaign in the West Midlands.

The party has a real chance of winning its first seats in Strasbourg. It will
need 9 per cent of the vote in the North-west to guarantee a seat, though could
secure one with as little as a 7.5 per cent share. It is hoping that a more
concerted campaign in Cumbria and Merseyside will see it boost the 6.4 per cent
share of the vote it achieved in 2004. Senior figures in all three major parties
harbour concerns that the BNP could be the recipient of anger against MPs
milking the expenses system. It used the widespread disgust at the abuses as the
focal point for the launch of its European campaign this week, depicting MPs as
pigs stuffing money into their pockets. It also seized on the employment of
foreign workers at Lindsey oil refinery earlier this year, adopting the slogan
"British jobs for British workers".

However, MPs are hopeful they can head off the threat by redoubling their
campaigning efforts. They believe the BNP has generally benefited in
traditionally Labour-dominated areas when other parties decide not to campaign.
According to one senior Labour figure who has been out canvassing opinion in
London, many voters still have grave reservations about voting for the BNP and
are more keen on voting for the more acceptable Ukip.

The BNP may also be damaged by a series of recent scandals. Simon Darby, the
party's deputy leader, faced criticism earlier this month after describing the
Archbishop of York, John Sentamu, as an "ambitious African" whose fellow
Ugandans threw spears at their enemies. It also faces a funding crisis.
According to a leaked letter sent by the party's leader, Nick Griffin, the BNP
has fallen well short of its £390,000 campaign fundraising target. The letter,
sent to all members, suggests the party is still £90,000 short of the goal.

BNP

* LEADER

Nick Griffin

* PLATFORM

Will attempt to benefit from expenses scandals, as well as "British jobs for
British workers" pledge.

* STRENGTH

Disillusioned working-class voters. Will target key areas of Midlands and
North-west in European elections.

* PROSPECTS

Realistic chance of first European seat in the North-west, but could be hit by
Ukip strength and increased campaigning from main parties

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

An Irish voice rallies young for a 'democratic Europe'

BYLINE: Michael Savage POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words


LIBERTAS claims it will deliver a "spectacular result" at the European elections
by offering voters across Europe the chance to back radical reform of an
"unaccountable" EU.

The party wants massive reforms including elected commissioners who draw up
laws, the repeal of many European directives and a rewritten Lisbon Treaty, put
to a referendum in each country. It was founded by the Irish businessman Declan
Ganley, who led the successful "no" campaign during Ireland's referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty last year. He now hopes to secure 100 seats by being the first to
have candidates across the continent.

Party insiders say prospects in Britain are nowhere near that level, but add
they have received backing from Labour supporters annoyed at their party's
decision not to hold a referendum on the signing of the Lisbon Treaty. Libertas
has targeted young people and those who would not usually bother voting in the
Euro election.

Andrew Jamieson, the chairman of Libertas in the UK, said Lord Tebbit's plea to
voters to back a fringe party at the elections had provided his party with a
fillip.

However, the party has already suffered from its own political scandal. One of
its candidates in the Czech Republic was forced to resign after he was convicted
of tax evasion.

Libertas

* LEADER

Declan Ganley

* PLATFORM

Massive reforms, but not an end to membership. Wants elected commissioners, new
Lisbon Treaty, and repeal of EU directives.

* STRENGTH

Voters unwilling to back Ukip and the BNP, which want to pull out of EU. Finding
support from ex-Labour supporters and apathetic voters.

* PROSPECTS

Not much support in Britain, but looks sure to win seats across Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Will voters take revenge and vote for the fringe?;
Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman, urged voters to show MPs who was boss by
boycotting the three main parties in the European elections on 4 June. So who
would profit from these tactics? 'The Independent' reports on the parties vying
for a breakthrough Twitter chatter could make Ukip the main beneficiary

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 681 words


THE UK Independence Party has suddenly become the talk of people who Twitter,
thanks to Norman Tebbit's highly publicised advice to voters to give the main
parties a kicking. Although they have never won a Commons seat, Ukip is now
getting more mentions on Twitter and other social internet sites than any other
political party when the subject of next month's elections comes up.

The little anti-EU party has lurched from crisis to catastrophe since its
triumph in the European elections four years ago, but now looks set to be the
main beneficiary of public disillusionment with mainstream politicians in next
month's elections.

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, believes the party has rid itself of its reputation
for being "the BNP in blazers", meaning it attracted ageing middle-class
racists. One of the Ukip candidates featured on party leaflets is Deva
Kumarasiri, who was sacked by the Post Office for refusing to serve customers
who did not speak English. Two others are Harry Aldridge and Amy O'Boyle, 22 and
19 respectively.

The prospect of Ukip being the main beneficiary of the furore over MPs' expenses
has an irony to it, since two of their MEPs have been mired in scandal. Ashley
Mote, elected MEP for South-east England, was imprisoned in 2007 for falsely
claiming £65,000 in welfare benefits. Last month another Ukip MEP, Tom Wise, was
charged with false accounting and money laundering over allegations that he
misused nearly £40,000 in expenses. Both men were expelled from Ukip, but still
sit as MEPs. Mr Farage vigorously defends his party's handling of both scandals.
"David Cameron has told his MPs to pay the money back," he said. "Well, our chap
[Wise] paid the money back, but he was still expelled. Mote never even took his
seat as a Ukip MEP."

Ukip failed to follow up its unexpected success in 2005, when it won 12 seats in
the European Parliament and knocked the Liberal Democrats into fourth place. The
party was torn apart when its most famous MEP, the former television presenter
Robert Kilroy-Silk, broke away to form a rival organisation. "That set us back
two years," Mr Farage admitted.

Mr Farage also came under fire from Ukip members who thought he was taking too
soft a line on Europe. Last September, one of Ukip's better-known activists,
Robin Page, presenter of One Man and His Dog, forecast the party was "finished",
after it failed to adopt him as candidate. "Yes, I've had a little bit of
difficulty with them," Mr Farage said. "I call them the 'angry old men
tendency'. Most of them have gone now, I'm pleased to say."

After months of neglect, interest in the party on the internet began to pick up
around 27 April, and shot up again on Tuesday, after Lord Tebbit's veiled hint
that he is backing Ukip. On that day, Ukip's website recorded 12,500 unique
hits. Three weeks ago, there were fewer than 1,000 a day.

An internet "buzzmetrics" firm, Radiant 6, has been monitoring traffic on social
media sites for mentions of the Euro elections, and found 845,000 mentions of
Ukip in one month, more than any other party and nearly half as many as all
other political parties combined, with half the increase packed into one 24-hour
surge. "We have an online guerrilla activist base," said Ken Irvine, a recent
defector from the Conservatives to Ukip, who formerly ran a marketing business.
"We push out a message on Twitter and ask them to retweet it. It helps drive up
our support.

"Despite all the money they have spent, the Tories are way behind us and behind
Labour and the BNP on the social media sites. That is because we go to where
people are having the conversations. The Tories are expecting the conversation
to come to them."

Ukip

LEADER

Nigel Farage (pictured right)

* PLATFORM

Britain to pull out of the EU and enter into free trade agreements. Ukip also
wants a virtual end to immigration but says it is not racist.

* STRENGTH

Has nine MEPs, claims 15,000 members and rising, and more council candidates
than ever.

* PROSPECTS

The bookies predict Ukip will get more votes than Labour. That sounds unlikely
but the party might take third place again.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 14, 2009 Thursday 4:29 PM GMT

Will Labour end up in sixth place?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 191 words


Bookmakers William Hill have made UKIP evens to win 15 seats next month, 5 up on
last time (when figures are adjusted). Here's their press release, complete with
nutter-style capitals.

"BOOKMAKERS WILLIAM HILL believe that UKIP will end up with more seats at the
forthcoming Euro elections than Labour. And Hills offer Even money that UKIP -
who won eleven seats last time - will get mopre than 7/4 shots Labour - who had
19, with a tie between the two offered at 3/1.'The current expenses scandal
could hardly have come at a worse time for the major Parties with the Euro
elections on the horizon and we believe there will be a strong protest vote
against the bigger Parties together with a hefty stay-away percentage of voters'
said Hill's spokesman Graham Sharpe.

"HILLS OFFER EVENS THAT UKIP WILL WIN 15 OR MORE SEATS - AND GO 1/5 THAT THE BNP
WILL WIN A SEAT, 3/1 THAT THEY WILL GET FIVE OR MORE; WHILE THE GREEN PARTY ARE
3/1 TO DOUBLE THEIR NUMBERS TO TEN OR MORE."

It could mean Labour ending up in sixth place. And me looking a damn fool. I've
placed a bet with Garrincha that they'll get three seats or fewer; if I win I
get a free UKIP mug.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Town hall thrashing could reduce jaded Labour to a northern party

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 701 words


Labour faces the possibility of being all but wiped out in the South in next
month's council elections, putting a swath of its parliamentary seats in
jeopardy at the general election.

Gordon Brown will launch the party's local and European election campaign today
in Derbyshire, one of Labour's last four counties, all of which could fall on
June 4.

Although the four in jeopardy are in the Midlands or the North the Prime
Minister will be equally worried that Labour councillors could disappear from a
string of counties in the South.

Labour has seen its local government base fall alarmingly since the mid-1990s,
when Tony Blair led the party to substantial gains all over the South. In 1996
it had 10,929 councillors and the Tories only 4,276. This has now reversed, with
Labour having 5,279 and the Tories climbing to 9,884.

Only three district councils in the South and South East, outside London, are
controlled by Labour - Stevenage, Luton and Slough - after a haemorrhage of
support from Kent to Cornwall in the past five years.

Local government experts predict that the party could also lose the few seats
that it holds in county councils across the South, with Labour on course for its
worst results in 30 years.

Buckinghamshire is already a Labour-free council after one councillor defected
to the Liberal Democrats last year and the other resigned. But other counties
along the M4 corridor and south of the M25 could also lose their rump of Labour
councillors.

In Surrey Labour has only two council seats out of 80, in Wiltshire three out of
98 and in Somerset, Hampshire, Dorset and Devon it has four from totals of
between 45 and 80.

Tony Travers, local government analyst at the London School of Economics,
predicted that Labour would soon be without any activist base in the South. It
would find it almost impossible to reverse that in the next five to ten years in
either Westminster or town halls. Labour's demise in the South, he said, would
be as drastic as the Conservatives' freefall in the North in the 1980s and 1990s
when they lost the campaigning base vital to get into Downing Street.

"The Tories still have no council seats in Liverpool and Newcastle and only one
in Manchester and they have taken over a decade to even start building up an
activist base in the North," Mr Travers said. "Labour is set to experience the
same problem and could all but disappear in the South for years."

Labour's most marginal parliamentary seats are mainly in the South and would be
almost certain to go if the party fails to improve on its present standing.
Those requiring the smallest swings to fall include Crawley, Croydon Central,
Harlow, Hove, Romsey, Southampton North and Gillingham, Dartford and others in
Kent.

Today, however, Mr Brown will be focusing on keeping Labour's strongholds
further north. The Tories are pinning their hopes on seizing Lancashire,
Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire from Labour control.

Labour is hoping to hang on to Derbyshire, which would require a 12 per cent
swing to switch to the Tories but only 5 per cent to fall into no overall
control. The party is also putting a huge amount of effort into campaigning in
Lancashire, the Tories' most likely prize on June 4.

Polling analysts predict that Labour could lose as many as 250 seats, more than
half the number it is defending, with the Tories gaining more than 200. The
Liberal Democrats, who are expected to win or lose a couple of dozen seats
could, however, lose control of two of the three counties they hold in the South
West - Cornwall, Devon and Somerset.

The debacle over ministerial expenses could boost the chances of the minority
parties, such as the Green Party, UKIP and the BNP, whose affairs have not been
covered in recent newspaper revelations.

On the same day as the European and council elections, town hall mayors will
also seek re-election in Hartlepool, Doncaster and North Tyneside.

Next month's local elections will cover 27 county councils and seven unitary
authorities, most of which have recently been restructured. The seven are
Bedford, Central Bedforshire, Bristol, Wiltshire, Cornwall, Shropshire and the
Isle of Wight.

Online

Read the latest political twists and turns timesonline.co.uk/redbox

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jim Phillips canvassing in Leigh Park, Havant, where he is a Labour
candidate for Hampshire County Council
RUSSELL SACH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Cameron warns Tebbit of expulsion after call to boycott major parties at polls;

Tebbit warned of Former party chairman faces expulsion after telling voters not
to support Tories

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 320  words


LORD TEBBIT has been warned he faces expulsion from the Conservatives for urging
voters not to support the party in next month's European elections.

The public threat to a former party chairman from David Cameron, the Tory
leader, is unprecedented. Lord Tebbit is hugely popular with the party's
grassroots but his call for voters to shun the main parties at next month's
elections has enraged Mr Cameron.

In a BBC interview, Lord Tebbit called for a boycott of the main parties as a
demonstration of the public anger over MPs' expenses.

While insisting he would not advocate support for any other party, the UK
Independence Party (Ukip) expressed delight at his intervention.

Mr Cameron, in his press conference yesterday, rounded on Lord Tebbit, who was
chairman of the party when Baroness Thatcher won her third successive election
victory.

He said: "As a former party chairman, he should know a thing or two about party
discipline and he should probably know a thing or two about the rules about
supporting other parties.''

He added: "He [Lord Tebbit] was treading a very careful path and I would warn
him, if he slips off that path, he's sitting as an independent.''

Mr Cameron left Lord Tebbit in little doubt that he would be ejected if he gave
explicit advice to voters not to support Conservative candidates. Lord Tebbit
has irritated Tory leaders in the past but none have confronted him so publicly
or threatened to throw him out of the party.

In his interview, Lord Tebbit, who chose his words carefully, urged a boycott of
the major parties only for the elections to the European Parliament on June 4.
He urged them to vote as normal in the council elections and to support the
Conservatives in the next general election. "What I am advising people is to
show our major parties that it is the electors who are masters and the electors
are extremely upset with their employees in the House of Commons,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

The BNP must not prosper from this scandal;
The voters must recognise what these extremists really stand for, says Denis
MacShane

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 845  words


What The Daily Telegraph has revealed about MPs' expenses in recent days is
sordid and shaming. Even the most dunderheaded among us parliamentarians must
realise that we have grievously let down the public and deserve our collective
shame.

Compared to continental or American corruption, it could be argued that our sins
are venial. Manure and moat cleaning, bath plugs and wisteria pruning are more
Gilbert and Sullivan, exposing a Dad's Army of fiddlers, than the corruption of
payments to offshore accounts in return for government contracts or laws passed.
In other European countries, such as Germany or France, scandals involving huge
sums of money being received by politicians have led to suicides, imprisonment
and rising careers coming to a juddering halt.

Nevertheless, the damage to British parliamentary politics will be mortal if, as
a result of this expenses scandal, the disgraceful thuggery of the BNP is the
main beneficiary.

There is no better breeding ground for the toxic politics of the extreme Right
or Left than a zero-growth economy where, on one hand, people fear for their
jobs, income, savings, even keeping their own homes, and on the other hand MPs
are able to "flip'' their homes to make a killing or get the taxpayer to pay
pounds 4,000 for a gardener.

Arising from this swamp comes the most skilful populist politician in recent
British history. Lord Tebbit is hard-wired into the deep psyche of an angry,
white, working- and middle-class England which feels - with not a little
justification - that it is taken for granted and its voice has no place in
Gordon Brown's Cabinet or David Cameron's front bench.

Lord Tebbit's appeal to voters yesterday to shun his own Conservative Party, as
well as Labour and the Lib Dems, in the European elections is the most audacious
intervention in British politics since Enoch Powell's call for a vote against
the Conservative government in 1974 on the issue of Europe.

Lord Tebbit is also obsessed with Europe, which - like free trade or the Irish
question in the 19th century - remains the great unresolved issue in British
politics. His intervention carries great resonance. Imagine if Tony Benn had
urged a vote against Labour in the 1980s or 1990s on nuclear disarmament or
membership of Nato. But while Benn was hostile to Labour leaders and policies,
he never called upon party members to desert their own party. Lord Tebbit must
be aware that his appeal only works because there are two fringe parties - the
BNP and Ukip - which have candidates and a presence all over the nation.

Whatever he thinks of David Cameron, Lord Tebbit surely has a moral duty to make
clear his appeal for a vote against the Commons parties does not extend to the
BNP. The ideology of the BNP is rooted in classic, anti-Semitic European
fascism. The only lengthy publication to BNP leader Nick Griffin's name is a
diatribe against Jews who, he claimed, secretly control the media. He lists
editors, TV executives and other Jews whose names were changed when they arrived
decades ago, claiming they operate as a secret lobby or cabal, dictating the
news. BNP hardliners are obsessed with denying or trivialising the Holocaust. To
be sure, the BNP dislikes Muslims and the EU in equal measure, but the
anti-Jewish core of BNP ideology remains consistent.

When elected as local councillors, BNP candidates often reveal a nasty, violent
nature and the party leadership is forever having to remove or deselect its own
people as an embarrassment. The BNP is linked to other extreme-Right European
parties who use nationalist and populist rhetoric, but whose roots in classical
continental fascism are easy for researchers to uncover.

Let's be clear: the BNP should not be the beneficiaries of the scandal over MPs'
allowances.

Party leaders and Parliament must move fast. In the past, the Commons has been
slothful, self-indulgent and disconnected from public opinion. But with
leadership, it can rise to the challenge and respond to what the nation needs.

Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg should go away for a day and come up
with a simple, transparent and justifiable scheme. Everything should go, save an
allowance common in all jobs which require time away from home.

It is clear that the Kelly commission is too slow-moving. We need action this
day. The Commons can meet for a special session this weekend, or in the Whitsun
break, to agree a package of reforms.

These could also usefully cover party financing, which gives rise to endless
sleaze charges, and it could limit the outside earnings of MPs to no more than
the equivalent of their parliamentary salary. Leave Kelly to tackle the problem
of pay, with party leaders pledging to implement whatever he decides.

The shaming of the Commons is now a global scandal doing great harm to Britain's
good name. If Brown, Cameron and Clegg cannot rise to this challenge with the
support of MPs, then Lord Tebbit is right. But the price of allowing the BNP to
speak for Britain will be a high one to pay.

Denis MacShane is Labour MP for Rotherham and a former minister

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Hazel vows to return GBP 13,300 tax

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 224  words


COMMUNITIES Secretary Hazel Blears last night caved in to pressure and said she
would pay back GBP 13,332 in capital gains tax on the sale of one of her homes.

Ms Blears had told Commons authorities her London flat was her second home and
claimed expenses on it.

But when it was sold in 2004, the Salford MP informed tax authorities that it
was her "primary residence". That meant it was not liable to heavy capital gains
tax.

Last night an emotional Ms Blears said she would pay back the money to the
taxman - but said she would not apologise and insisted she had acted within the
rules.

She said: "I've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the public feel about
what has been going on.

"I'm doing this really to see what can I do to try to get those first steps to
rebuild this trust.

"I see it's not enough to say I complied with the rules because people just
don't accept that.

"It affected me personally, what people said in Salford where I and my family
live."

Ms Blears also faced claims of "flipping" properties - listing three addresses
as her second home to make a bigger expenses claim.

Labour is on course to come fourth in next month's Euro elections, the party's
senior MPs fear.

Canvassers and a Populus poll for the June 4 election yesterday also reported a
surge to the UK Independence Party by some Labour supporters as a protest vote.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blears's cheque last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Call to leave EU will win millions of votes in June;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 36

LENGTH: 148  words


I MUST congratulate Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, on
his column in the Daily Express ("It is time Britain took back control of its
own destiny", May 12).

Hooray that at last we have a party leader who has the courage to stand up and
speak for so many people in this country. He quotes we pay GBP 40million a day
into the EU.

Just think what this amount of money could do for our own country and the NHS.

It has always been a crazy idea to join 27 countries together, we are never all
going to agree on the same policies. Can someone please tell me what we gain
from being a member? The poorer countries seem to benefit most, while many
people here still live in poverty. This is absolutely appalling, I always
thought charity should begin at home.

I know for a fact the UK Independence Party will be gaining many more votes on
Thursday, June 4.

Ann Barton-on-Sea, Hants

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RALLYING CALL: UKIP leader Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown's election meltdown

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 169  words


LABOUR is on course to come fourth in next month's Euro elections, the party's
senior MPs fear.

Canvassers campaigning for the European Parliament poll on June 4 are detecting
a surge towards the UK Independence Party.

Some fear even traditional Labour voters are ready to back the anti-EU party as
a protest vote.

But the public anger against the mainstream parties is not translating into
support for the extremist British National Party, Labour insiders claim.

One senior backbencher said: "We really could finish fourth in this election.

That is how low Gordon Brown has brought us. The voters hate him and they want
to punish Labour."

Another Labour backbencher said: "On the doorsteps, people are saying 'Voting
BNP is a step too far but UKIP are getting my vote'."

A Populus poll yesterday showed support for smaller parties - including UKIP,
the Green Party and the BNP - up four per cent to 13 per cent in a month. Labour
fell four to 26, the Tories fell four to 39, and the Lib Dems were up four to 22
per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Party warning to Tebbit

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 173  words


DAVID Cameron last night fired a warning shot at Lord Tebbit for urging voters
not to back the Tories at the polls next month.

The former Cabinet Minister has advised the electorate to take out their
frustration over the expenses sleaze crisis by supporting fringe parties at the
Euro elections on June 4.

Although he did not single out any party by name, Lord Tebbit's suggestion was
understood to be a discreet nod towards the UK Independence Party. But the Tory
leader hinted that the peer could lose the Conservative whip in the Lords if he
goes any further in voicing disloyalty.

Mr Cameron said: "As a former party chairman he should know a thing or two about
party discipline and he should probably know a thing or two about the rules
about supporting other parties. He was treading a very careful path and I would
warn him, if he slips off that path he's sitting as an independent."

Lord Tebbit said: "What I am advising people is to show our major parties that
it is the electors who are masters and the electors are extremely upset"

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

National: Expenses Row: Sketch: 'Suddenly David Cameron looked grown up'

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 439 words


In a few crisp sentences yesterday afternoon David Cameron rose to the challenge
of the MPs expenses crisis. Like thunder after sultry heat it came as a great
relief, despite the brooding presence of Sir Winston Churchill, patron saint of
rackety political finances, whose portrait hangs in the Westminster club where
his successor faced the hack pack.

As news swept through Whitehall that Cameron had arrived promising Churchillian
"Action This Day", ministers stirred uneasily in their bunkers. Patrols were
sent out to confirm reports that Tory MPs had banged their desks in delight when
the leader revealed his plan to cut their standard of living (but not his) and
that repentant shadow ministers were already writing pay-back cheques.

The cabinet discussed the affair mid-morning. Harriet Harman duly popped up on
24/7 TV to pre-empt the Cameron onslaught with her own plan to ask a committee
now reviewing expenses to review them a bit harder. Action this day? No, more of
a process - a process leading towards targets in due course. Very New Labour.

Then Cameron addressed the cameras. Sorry, he said. Sorry. Several times. Some
Tory MPs had let voters down. People are right to be angry.

" I don't care if they were within the rules, they were wrong," he said.
Suddenly Cameron looked grown up.

It sounded like an authentic glimpse of the regime to come, more patrician than
Mrs Thatcher's hectoring tone in the mid-70s or Tony Blair's infectiously cheesy
grin pre-1997. Sweeping through his plan Cameron rattled off a list of repentant
miscreants.

Michael Gove would be repaying £7,000 claimed for bubble gum, Oliver Letwin
returning £2,000 spent repainting "Dosh", his 300-ft yacht, Alan Duncan the
£5,000 frittered away on chorus girls (I made that up too). Cameron himself will
be handing back the £2.50 he claimed for soup he gave to a beggar.

No more claims for bath plugs, patio heaters, swimming pools, moats or helipads.
" I am appalled, many of my colleagues are appalled," he said. It was brilliant,
but also preposterous. Old Etonian graduate of Bullingdon Club shocked by High
Life! It was like Don Corleone protesting ignorance that folk gamble in Las
Vegas or keep horses' heads in their beds.

The hacks weren't really listening. Unaware that Don Dave had shot and stuffed
their fox they piled on the outrage. Why not pay back more? Why had he dithered
so long? From the BBC's Nick Robinson: "It's okay for you, you're rich." Cameron
gulped then blamed his £24,000 a year claim on family life.

On a roll, Don Dave slapped down retired capo, Norman "Ukip" Tebbit ("watch it,
Norm"), and the Daily Mirror.

Churchill winked.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

National: Expenses Row: Tory dissent: Tebbit urges Euro protest vote

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 276 words


David Cameron yesterday publicly warned Lord Tebbit, a darling of the Tory right
and former party chairman under Margaret Thatcher, that he could be expelled
from the Conservative party.

The move came after Tebbit urged voters not to support the Conservatives in next
month's European election.

In an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Tebbit said voters should
boycott all the three main parties when voting for MEPs on 4 June.

He said this would enable voters to register a protest about the way MPs at
Westminster were "misbehaving". However, the comments were seen as a clear hint
that he wants people to vote for the United Kingdom Independence party.

Cameron warned Tebbit to stick to his "very careful path". He said: "As a former
party chairman he should know a thing or two about party discipline and he
should probably know a thing or two about the rules about supporting other
parties. He was treading a very careful path and I would warn him: if he slips
off that path he's sitting as an independent."

Tebbit said he was "quite sure" he would be advising people to vote Tory at the
general election. He also said that, in the local elections, people should vote
"as they normally do". But he added: "What I am advising people is to show our
major parties that it is the electors who are masters, and the electors are
extremely upset with their employees in the House of Commons. Of course not
everybody is going to obey my suggestion, or accept my suggestion, so what we
would get is much the same result but on an extremely low poll.

"The leaders of the major parties would be reminded that the electors can quite
easily show their displeasure."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Expenses row needs a fix, but we've seen worse before

LENGTH: 746 words

ABSTRACT

Gordon Brown should look to some of his predecessors at No 10 for tips on how to
ride out a scandal

FULL TEXT

Can an enfeebled British parliamentary system of government, one which survived
war and economic disaster for much of the 20th century recognisably intact, get
through the current crisis in one piece? Thoughtful MPs have certainly begun to
ask each other.

Is the MPs' expenses crisis worse than the usual crisis, in the same way that
the economic recession (itself an unhelpful coincidence) is worse than usual?
Possibly, says tea-room gossip, because it is a crisis of the system and affects
all parties. Voters are very angry.

Every generation witnesses political crises and scandals that shake Westminster
and overthrow powerful men and governments, but are soon forgotten. , , , , -
all were about sex or money (in Thorpe's case, conspiracy to murder too), and
all occured after 1970.

Yet, it is already almost as hard to recall the details as those of , (a
sensational Victorian sex scandal, almost all of it untrue),  and even (what
exactly did he do with those "rescued" women?) a century earlier.

Yet these were personal, tabloid scandals. Great political or constitutional
earthquakes are more important.

Under the pressure of war the system buckled, forcing the creation of coalitions
in 1915, again in the existential crisis of 1916, and its counterpart in 1940.
It happened again in the .

Some predict it will happen again soon. What price Vince Cable for No 11? But
three cross-party coalitions in a century is very stable by European standards,
where tyranny, war and foreign occupation has seen almost every state south of
Stockholm overthrown. The EU's success has stopped all that - so far.

In decades of imperial retreat and economic decline, Britain's domestic crises
have been military or economic: enforced devaluations of sterling in 1931, 1949,
1967 and 1992; trade union challenges to the elected government in the general
strike (1926) and again in the 1960s and 70s, until Margaret Thatcher beat the
miners in 1984.

As with IRA bombs, racial tension and other threats (including irresponsible
opposition), it often seemed like touch and go. But the system held and evolved
peacefully under one-party government, much as it had - just - in the mighty  of
1832, when rotten boroughs were swept away by the Great Reform Act.

More than most (except perhaps the Daily Mail), David Lloyd George, along with
Thatcher and Churchill, the last century's most powerful figure, was a one-man
rolling crisis from his budget showdown with the Lords in 1909-10, through  (all
true), the war, and his final overthrow in 1922. As for his notorious sale of
peerages, it only ended when his bagman, , was jailed in 1933. All scandalous at
the time.

So were the forgery (1924), which brought down the first Labour government, and
the  of 1974, another Daily Mail special which - this time - failed in that
task.

A powerful prime minister in their prime can usually surmount scandals - an
crisis (1936), or the affair (1986) - as a weak one, Eden at Suez (1956) cannot.
Is Gordon Brown able to seize the hour, impose reform and restore confidence in
Westminster today?

The has been a long time coming. Every PM since Harold Wilson (except Ted Heath)
has ducked the challenge and bought off MPs with more expenses and rules poorly
enforced.

In the "" culture since the 80s, MPs' sense of entitlement has grown, their
class loyalties and codes have weakened. Neither Blair nor Brown tackled it. All
is now exposed as Labour's own FoI reform is turned against it.

By Italian standards it is still small beer, but the Italian comparison is
instructive. The scandal which tainted even the Communist party in the 90s,
overthrew the existing party system. The result has been rule by the rightwing
media-tycoon populist, Silvio Berlusconi.

In Britain, where the radical left is scattered, the threat also comes from
disaffected voters turning to the radical right, to the UKIP or the BNP. After
all, it was protest votes against Francois Mitterrand's left government which
first got Jean Marie le Pen elected as a French MEP in 1984, MPs recall with a
shudder. In 2002, he was the runner-up in the presidential election.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

REPAY DAY;
GREEDY MPS ORDERED TO REFUND DODGY CLAIMS

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1625 words


GRASPING MPs were yesterday shamed into paying back thousands of pounds in
expenses.

Labour and Tory chiefs said they would be ordering snouts-in-the-trough
colleagues to hand back the cash.

They finally acted after another day of shame for Parliament.

The latest leaks revealed well-heeled MPs claimed for the upkeep of country
houses, the cost of cleaning swimming pools, hanging a chandelier - and even
cleaning out a moat.

But at a meeting of all three main parties, it was decided that the gravy train
must come to an immediate halt.

They agreed a ban on home "flipping" to claim maximum allowances by changing
what is listed as a primary residence.

And there will also be tough new restrictions on what can be claimed for second
homes to prevent outrageous or frivolous claims.

An independent watchdog will examine the expenses of all MPs over the past four
years - and anybody who has breached the rules will be told they must pay up or
resign.

Last night Cabinet Minister Hazel Blears desperately tried to save her career by
agreeing to repay pounds 13,000 in capital gains tax she avoided by flipping
homes.

A senior source said she accepted she had made a mistake and "it would be
rectified as soon as possible".

Brandishing a cheque for the amount she said she'd be sending to the Inland
Revenue Mrs Blears said: "I've heard absolutely the outrage and the anger the
public feel about what has been going on." David Cameron - who will himself be

repaying pounds 680 cost of having some wisteria removed - yesterday ordered his
shadow cabinet to cough up the cash for any dodgy claims.

Tory children's spokesman Michael Gove agreed to pay back pounds 7,000 for
luxury furniture, while Oliver Letwin will refund the pounds 2,000 bill for
having pipes under his tennis court fixed.

Conservative health spokesman Andrew Lansley will repay pounds 2,600 for home
improvements, while shadow leader and millionaire oil-trader Alan Duncan will
give back pounds 5,000 for a gardening bill. David Willetts is to refund pounds
115 (plus VAT) bill for changing a light bulb.

Tory MPs Stewart Jackson, Michael Ancram and James Arbuthnot agreed to refund
money claimed on the upkeep of their swimming pools. And shadow chancellor
George Osborne will hand back pounds 440 for a taxi bill.

Mr Cameron said any member of the shadow cabinet who refused to pay back an
excessive claim would be drummed out of the Parliamentary party. All
Conservative backbenchers now face being hauled before a scrutiny panel to
justify their expenses - and have been told that in future they will not be able
claim for food, furniture and fittings.

Mr Cameron also revealed they would no longer be able to switch properties to
avoid paying capital gains tax.

He said: "When I read about the swimming pools, the moats... I am completely
appalled, most of my colleagues are appalled, people want something done about
this." He added: "Some MPs have done things that were wrong. I don't care if it
was within the rules - they were wrong." Labour MPs will also be summoned by
chief whip Nick Brown to account for their expenses.

Margaret Moran said she would be paying back the pounds 22,500 she claimed for
treating dry rot at her seaside home in Southampton. Ronnie Campbell, Labour MP
for Blyth Valley, said he would be paying back pounds 6,200 in allowances to
furnish his second home.

Lord Tebbit yesterday urged people not vote for the mainstream parties in the
Euro elections - to demonstrate their their anger over the Westminster expenses
scandal.

The former Tory party chairman said: "I am advising people to show our major
parties that it is the electors who are masters - and the electors are extremely
upset with their employees in the House of Commons." Both Labour and Tory
officials slammed his boycott call, which was seen as a thinly-veiled plug for
the UK Independence Party.

One Tory chief said: "He is treading a very dangerous path." Meanwhile, the
Bishop of Durham joined the row as he warned MPs to remember they were "not the
lords of the manor but servants of the people".

The Rt Rev Tom Wright added: "We have fooled ourselves for a long time that
because we have western democracy we have something perfect.

"But we now have a Government that is largely unaccountable to Parliament.

"The question of expenses is one of a thousand that has gone wrong - and it
shows that there is a problem at the heart of the situation."

NICK CLEGG LIB DEM LEADER SALARY: pounds 64, 766

HIS EXPENSES: The Lib Dem's leader breached the rules by claiming for
international calls on his family phone bill.

He also spent more than pounds 23,000 in total on doing up his second home in
Sheffield, including repairs to the kitchen, ceilings and fixing the garage
doors.

He defended claiming pounds 160 a month to pay for a gardener at the home.

HIS DEFENCE: An "embarrassed" Mr Clegg last night paid back pounds 82 for the
international phone calls.

He also apologised for late payment of an electricity bill.

Mr Clegg has ordered that any Lib Dems who made a profit on the sale of their
second home should pay the money back..

MICHAEL SPICER TORY MP SALARY: pounds 64,766

HISEXPENSES: The Tories' most senior backbencher claimed pounds 5,650 in nine
months for garden maintenance .

The MP for West Worcestershire claimed pounds 620 for hanging a chandelier in
his manor house and pounds 1,000 for servicing an oven. He submitted a bill of
pounds 47 for a visit from a chimney sweep, while logs for the fire cost
taxpayers pounds 60.

But the fees office refused to pay a pounds 23.95 claim for a Christmas tree.

Sir Michael also claimed pounds 80 for a "tree inspection" and pounds 211 for
repairing the lawnmower.

HIS DEFENCE: The gardening claims were misleading: "It would have been more
accurate defining it as "maintenance" instead of gardening".

JAMES ARBUTHNOT TORY MP SALARY: pounds 64,766

HIS EXPENSES: The Chair of the Tory defence select committee claimed expenses to
have his pool cleaned. It was among payments totalling pounds 1,471 for a home
he rented in Hampshire, before he bought a pounds 2million house without a
mortgage.

When Mr Arbuthnot, 56, moved in May 2007, he did not immediately leave his
rented property.

In a letter to the fees office he said that for a period, "I had two second
homes". An official replied: "No problems." The MP for North East Hampshire also
demanded pounds 2,433 for a housekeeper and pounds 2,749 for work on trees. He
has claimed the maximum of pounds 108,062 in the past five years.

HIS DEFENCE: "The claims were an error of judgment. I am sorry I made them and I
will repay them in full."

MICHAEL ANCRAM TORY MP SALARY: pounds 64,766

HIS EXPENSES: He claimed over pounds 14,000 a year in expenses while owning
three properties, none of which have a mortgage, worth an estimated pounds
8million.

The MP for Devizes, Wilts, 63, claimed "thousands" for gardening and cleaning.

He billed taxpayers for a boiler for a swimming pool, and maintenance for a
cottage in his grounds.

Ancram also put in a bill for pounds 1,117.43 for gardening, including "cleaning
up moss".

HIS DEFENCE: They are maintenance expenses, not extravagant or luxurious. The
pool claim was a mistake and will be repaid.

DAVID DAVIS TORY MP SALARY: pounds 64,766

HIS EXPENSES: The former Shadow Home Secretary claimed more than pounds 10,000
for home improvements, including pounds 5,700 for a portico on his Yorkshire
home.

He also claimed more than pounds 2,000 for mowing and rolling two paddocks,
pounds 400 was claimed for fixing a tractor motor, and pounds 8,000 was spent on
5,000 gallons of heating oil. He spent pounds 5,000 on home furnishings.

HIS DEFENCE: Mr Davis said the installation of a new portico was to deal with
"water damage". He also said he tried to cut his lawns himself, but that "a
frenetic national role and busy constituency" made finding the time difficult.

WHO'S GOING TO PAY WHAT

SHADOW children's secretary Michael Gove will pay back pounds 7,000 claimed over
five months for furniture at his London home.

POLICY supremo Oliver Letwin is to return pounds 2,000 which he claimed in 2006
to replace a leaking pipe under the tennis court at his Somerset cottage.

SHADOW health secretary Andrew Lansley will refund pounds 2,600 claimed for
improvements to his Cambridgeshire thatched cottage.

SHADOW leader of the Commons Alan Duncan - nearly pounds 5,000 which he claimed
for gardening expenses.

SHADOW chancellor George Osborne is to cough up for a pounds 440.62 bill for a
chauffeur company to drive him from Cheshire to London in November 2005.

DAVID Cameron will return pounds 680 used for clearing wisteria and vines from
his home in Oxon.

SHADOW business secretary Kenneth Clarke will no longer claim a discount on his
council tax bill for his Nottinghamshire home.

SHADOW skills secretary David Willetts is to refund pounds 115 for lightbulb
changes.

FRANCIS Maude, shadow Cabinet Office minister, will no longer claim any expenses
on his second home in London.

SHADOW home secretary Chris Grayling has also agreed to stop claiming expenses
for his London flat - just 17 miles away from his constituency home in Surrey.

THERESA Villiers, Shadow transport secretary who has two homes in London, will
give up claiming second home allowance.

LIBERAl Democrat leader Nick Clegg is to pay back an pounds 82 phone bill he
claimed that was for personal calls to his wife's family in Spain. He also
apologised for the late payment of an electricity bill.

LABOUR MP for Luton South Margaret Moran has agreed to pay back pounds 22,500
she claimed to treat dry rot at her and her husband's seaside home 100 miles
from her constituency.

HAZEL Blears, Communities Secretary , will give back pounds 13,332 in capital
gains tax she didn't pay herself after selling her home and flipping properties.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TALKS Gordon Brown and Jacqui Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

TEBBIT: SNUB MAIN PARTIES IN NEXT POLLS;
BOYCOTT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 126 words


NORMAN Tebbit was yesterday accused of fuelling the far-right when he said
people should not vote for the main parties in the Euro elections.

Magaret Thatcher's former right-hand man said: "I am advising people is to show
our major parties that it is the electors who are masters." He stopped short of
backing the UK Independence Party but his stance earned him a rebuke from Tory
leader David Cameron.

He said Tebbit should stick to a "very careful path", adding: "As a former party
chairman, he should know a thing or two about party discipline and rules on
supporting other parties." Tebbit made it clear he was not advising people to
back the far-right BNP.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the elections were a good chance to "send a
message" to greedy MPs..

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST VOTE Lord Tebbit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Comment - A vote for change

LENGTH: 544 words


For a minute there - and this might make Morning Star readers choke on their
cereal - it looked like Norman Tebbit had hit the nail on the head.

But only for a minute, thankfully, otherwise we'd have been left wondering if
we'd fallen into a parallel universe where the old Tory extremist was a champion
of democracy and ordinary people.

Still, he was quite right to point out to the MPs caught up in the expenses
scandal that "it is the electors who are masters and the electors are extremely
upset with their employees in the House of Commons."

Where Tebbit goes off the rails, though, is his call for a boycott of the
European elections to send a warning to the whole of Parliament.

It's hard to avoid the suspicion that he'd rather like UKIP to do well in next
month's polls, even if he's not allowed to say so.

But even if we charitably assume he meant what he said, he's still helping to
spread a dangerously wrong-headed idea.

That is, the notion that all politicians are as bad as each other and that
apathy - or, worse, voting for the fascist BNP - is the only answer.

In fact, there's no need for boycotts or protest votes, either in next month's
Euro elections or the general election that's due to take place within the next
year.

In the general election, the answer is not apathy. Instead, we should kick out
the money-grabbing new Labour elite who are dragging the party's name through
the mud - and keep the decent old Labour MPs who are serving working people
rather than riding the expenses gravy train.

And in Europe, the answer isn't apathy either. Nor do the angry and disaffected
have to vote for a cynical gang of fascists to get their message across.

Not when working people have a principled left-wing alternative fighting their
corner - for jobs, for social justice, for public services, for democracy and
against the poisonous racists in the BNP.

It's called No2EU, and it's already doing well enough to get the BNP running
scared.

Just look at events in Carlisle at the weekend, when No2EU campaigners had to
face down an "aggressive and hostile" mob of BNP blackshirts.

You won't see them mentioned in the mainstream media, who'd rather talk up the
BNP threat than admit that there's a credible alternative to the big three
parties.

But for everyone disgusted with the grasping antics of new Labour and Tories
alike, a vote for No2EU next month is the best protest you can make.

Wage insult

Tebbit picked a timely moment to crawl out of the woodwork, as yesterday's news
that unemployment has soared over 2.2 million brings back memories of the dark
days of the Thatcher government in which he served.

This is misery and poverty on a scale which would make the expenses scandal pale
into insignificance - were it not that the ministers so quick to line their
pockets with our money are the same ones who are barely lifting a finger to
tackle the jobs crisis.

They're still playing coy with the bankers, refusing to force them to spend any
of the bail-out cash - more of our money - on helping industry to bounce back.
And they're refusing to consider the kind of mass public works projects that are
the only proven way out of depression.

Yesterday's derisory rise in the minimum wage - 7p, or a little over 1 per cent
- just adds insult to very real injury.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Letters - A split vote

LENGTH: 57 words


Congratulations to No2EU - Yes To Democracy for standing a full slate in the
European parliamentary elections.

That should help split the anti-EU vote nicely with UKIP and assist Labour
candidates who will continue a progressive engagement in Europe along with
colleagues from other parties in the PES/Socialist Group.

MARK GRAYLING, Chesterfield.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Britain - Tebbit: Voters should abandon mainstream parties

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 459 words


Tory peer Lord Tebbit caused major embarrassment to the Conservatives on Tuesday
when he said voters should boycott the mainstream parties in protest at the
parliamentary expenses scandal.

Speaking on the Today programme, Lord Tebbit said: "What I am advising people is
to show our major parties that it is the electors who are masters and the
electors are extremely upset with their employees in the House of Commons.

"The leaders of the major parties would be reminded that the electors can quite
easily show their displeasure."

Lord Tebbit did not advocate that voters should cast their ballot for a specific
minority party but it is feared a boycott of the mainstream parties could boost
the vote for UKIP and the BNP.

A Tory spokesman declined to comment on Lord Tebbit's remarks but stood by his
party's record of opposing the BNP.

Calls to Labour Party headquarters elicited no response but Labour peer Lord
Foulkes described Lord Tebbit's boycott call as "dangerous nonsense."

"The BNP is a racist party and UKIP have had their own expenses problems in the
European parliament. When we get to that stage, we really are in danger of
undermining the whole system of democracy," he said.

TUC general secretary Brendan Barber said while he understood the
disillusionment of the electorate, he urged people to cast their votes to
prevent the BNP gaining ground.

He said: "It would be only natural to say a plague on all their houses and make
a protest by refusing to vote in the elections, but this would be a big mistake.

"It will simply make it much more likely that extremists - particularly those
peddling race hate and intolerance - will be elected."

No2EU Yes to Democracy representative Brian Denny said: "The standing of
established politicians is at an all-time low and this is an EU-wide phenomenon.
That is why No2EU is standing in the European Elections, to give people a chance
to voice their disgust at this ongoing gravy train and the fundamentally
undemocratic nature of the European structures.

"Unfortunately the media seems to have decided to champion the BNP and give them
the oxygen of publicity. No2EU are offering a real democratic alternative to the
far right."

Flash Gordon

Gordon Brown

Wanted £6,577 to pay cleaner for Westminster flat

Dodgy Dave

David Cameron

Demanded £82,000 for his second home

Taxback Jack

Jack Straw

Claimed for full council tax despite 50 per cent discount

Clean Paul

Paul Murphy

Claimed £35 for a toilet roll holder.

Homey Tony

Tony Blair

Paid mortgage worth 10 times house's original cost.

'Bricks' Shaun

Shaun Woodward

Took £100,000 for mortgage on one of his seven properties

Two Loos

John Prescott

Had us pay for loo seat to be repaired twice in two years

Aga Oliver

Oliver Letwin Asked the public to pay to service his Aga cooker.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Minnows could soak up support from Big Three

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 456 words


Asurge in support for smaller and fringe parties looks likely at the European
elections on June 4, according to a new Populus poll for The Times.The poll,
undertaken between last Friday and Sunday, suggests that Labour, the Tories and
the Liberal Democrats will together win 79 per cent of votes cast, against 87
per cent on the main national voting intention question asked at the same time.
(For more details see www.populus.co.uk.) The Tories are put on 34 per cent,
against 25 per cent for Labour and 20 per cent for the Liberal Democrats.

This leaves 21 per cent spread between the Scottish and Welsh nationalists, the
UK Independence Party (UKIP), the British National Party (BNP), the Greens and
tiny fringe groups.

The numbers backing each party are small and, given the margin of error, have to
be treated with caution. Support for the BNP is put at 2 per cent, but this
could well be a big underestimate since voters may be reluctant to declare their
support for the party to a pollster.

Moreover, backing for these parties could rise further before polling day, as
happened in previous European elections. There were late rises in support for
the Greens in 1989 and UKIP in 2004.

These increases were not sustained at subsequent general elections.

Backing for UKIP is put at 6 per cent, compared with 16.2 per cent in 2004 -
when it pushed the Liberal Democrats into fourth place - and the Greens are on 5
per cent. The other fringe parties are making little impact. Just one respondent
backed the Jury Team, the new independent grouping and challenger to mainstream
politics set up by Sir Paul Judge, the former Conservative chief executive.

A third of those interviewed (34 per cent) said they would definitely vote in
the European elections, compared with a 38 per cent turnout in 2004 and the 51
per cent who said they would definitely vote in a general election.

The poll suggests that voters are in sceptical mood: 58 per cent agree that
Britain has given the EU too much power, including a clear majority of
supporters of all main parties. Twenty-eight per cent say the balance is about
right and 6 per cent say too little power has been given to the EU. If other
countries ratify the Lisbon treaty, 82 per cent say that Britain should hold a
referendum on the issue. Just 13 per cent disagree.

The poll contains a blow to Tony Blair's hopes of becoming EU president if the
Lisbon treaty goes through: 63 per cent are against his appointment, compared
with 34 per cent in favour. On the European Parliament itself people sent mixed
messages: 61 per cent of those interviewed said it had a positive impact on the
lives of ordinary people - yet 58 per cent saw it as "an irrelevant talking shop
and a gravy train for its members".

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Fringe parties look to exploit furore over expenses

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 506 words


Minor parties are preparing to exploit the public anger over MPs' expenses when
voters go to the polls in next month's European elections.

Fringe groups have printed posters depicting mainstream politicians as pigs in
troughs, and the issue is a constant theme at campaign launches.

Candidates have been briefed to tap into public anger over MPs' expenses, with
minor parties believing that it could help them to make significant gains on
June 4.

Green Party candidates will depict themselves as the remedy to "Westminster's
snout-in-trough disease", a spokesman told The Times.

The party will publish proposals this week for an overhaul of the expenses
system. The plans will be distributed to voters and become a campaign tool for
candidates.

The spokesman added that candidates would present themselves as an "antidote to
the cynicism, apathy and anger" of the leading parties. He said that the Greens
were "the only party presenting a positive vision" and hoped to gain votes as a
result.

The issue of expenses was the standout theme at the British National Party's
campaign launch this week.

Nick Griffin, the party's leader, said the furore was a huge advantage and
claimed that public distrust in the mainstream parties could enable the BNP to
win its first seat in the European Parliament.

He said that the public were sick of "fat, greedy politicians" and that BNP
activists were being treated nationally like a "liberating army".

The BNP's poster campaign will continue the theme, with the slogan "Punish the
Pigs", depicting pigs wearing Tory and Labour rosettes.

BNP candidates and supporters, who had gathered in Grays, Essex, were
entertained by a skit in which three men wearing pig masks played in troughs of
money before they were chased away by "British workers" - men dressed in
construction gear.

While other fringe parties believe that they can gain seats by highlighting the
furore, the UK Independence Party said so much damage had been done to the main
parties that it did not need to campaign on the issue.

"UKIP doesn't feel the need to campaign on the expenses at Westminster story.
There can't be a single voter in the country that doesn't already know what has
been going on, given the way that the entire assembled media of the country have
been discussing the story," a spokesman said.

However, the party is itself vulnerable on the issue of politicians' expenses,
given that Ashley Mote, a UKIP MEP, was imprisoned in 2007 for falsely claiming
£65,000 in welfare benefits.Last month another UKIP MEP, Tom Wise, was charged
with false accounting and money laundering over allegations that he misused
nearly £40,000 in expenses.

Both men have been expelled from the party.

UKIP may still tap into the anti-politics mood among the electorate because it
presents itself as a clear alternative to mainstream parties.

Among other minority parties is Libertas, a pan-European movement founded by
Declan Ganley, a leading figure behind the successful campaign for a "no" vote
in the Irish Republic's referendum on the Lisbon treaty

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greens will depict themselves as remedy to "snout-in-trough disease"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Cameron threatens to banish Tebbit over call to boycott poll;
Eurosceptic urged voters to shun main parties

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 587 words


David Cameron took on one of the Tories' biggest beasts yesterday, warning Lord
Tebbit that he would be thrown out of the party if he overstepped the mark.

The former party chairman sailed close to the wind yesterday by urging voters to
shun the main parties in next month's European elections. The former
Conservative chairman called for the boycott as a demonstration of the public's
anger over the MPs' expenses scandal.

While insisting that he would not advocate voting for any other party, which
would have been enough to ensure his expulsion, the UK Independence Party (UKIP)
expressed its delight at his remarks.

Mr Cameron, who had just laid down the law to his party over expenses, told Lord
Tebbit, a fierce Eurosceptic, that he was in danger of having the Conservative
whip withdrawn.

"As a former party chairman, he should know a thing or two about party
discipline and he should probably know a thing or two about the rules about
supporting other parties," Mr Cameron said. "He was treading a very careful path
and I would warn him, if he slips off that path he's sitting as an independent."

Lord Tebbit said his call for a boycott of the major parties applied only to the
elections to the European Parliament on June 4. He was urging them to vote as
normal in the local government polls on the same day and at the general election
expected next year.

"What I am advising people is to show our major parties that it is the electors
who are masters and the electors are extremely upset with their employees in the
House of Commons," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"Of course not everybody is going to obey my suggestion, or accept my
suggestion, so what we would get is much the same result but on an extremely low
poll. The leaders of the major parties would be reminded that the electors can
quite easily show their displeasure.

"On this occasion, I hope that they would show it in this way. In a general
election, I am quite sure that I would be advising people to vote Conservative
in the same way that I am advising people in the local government elections to
vote in the way they normally do. Whether they choose to vote for one of the
other parties or not is a matter for them. I wouldn't advise anyone to vote for
a party other than the Conservative Party. I am not doing that and I have never
done that."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, told the World at One on BBC Radio 4: "I am very
pleased at what Lord Tebbit said and he is absolutely right. The European
election is a very good opportunity to send a message to say you are not happy
with the whole rotten political system."

Mr Farage said that there had been no discussions between UKIP and the Tory peer
in advance of his intervention, but added: "I am not surprised that Lord Tebbit
has said it. He has clearly been very unhappy with the whole direction that
career politics has been going in and you have got to remember that he firmly
believes that Britain would be better off outside the EU and making her own
laws."

Lord Foulkes, a Labour peer, said Lord Tebbit's call was dangerous nonsense:
"The BNP is a racist party and UKIP have had their own expenses problems in the
European Parliament.When we get to that stage, we really are in danger of
undermining the whole system of democracy."

The BBC said that Lord Tebbit had made clear before his interview that he would
advise people against backing the British National Party in protest against the
mainstream parties.

'I am advising people to show our major parties that voters are masters'

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Tebbit is in danger of having the Conservative whip withdrawn
NICK RAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

LENGTH: 113 words


PUBLIC anger over MPs' expenses was laid bare last night in a poll showing that
Labour and the Tories have been hit equally by the scandal.

Support for each party dropped by four points in the wake of revelations about
the amounts front and backbenchers have claimed.

The Populus poll for the Times reveals a dramatic shift toward the Liberal
Democrats and fringe parties such as the BNP, UK Independence Party and the
Greens.

Labour has fallen four points since early April to 26 per cent, while the Tories
have dropped from 43 per cent to 39 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats are up four to 22 per cent ñ their highest for nearly four
years. Other parties are four up at 13 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

DON'T VOTE TORY IN EURO POLL, DECLARES TEBBIT

BYLINE: By James Chapman

LENGTH: 401 words


LORD Tebbit is risking expulsion from the Conservatives after urging voters not
to back the party in next month's European elections.

The former Tory chairman said the vote gave anyone outraged by MPs' abuse of
expenses an 'ideal opportunity' to send a message to all three main parties by
not voting for any of them.

The call from a senior party grandee is an extraordinary challenge to David
Cameron's authority in the run-up to the June 4 poll.

In an interview with the Daily Mail, 78-year-old Lord Tebbit said it was clear
that Labour, Conservative and Liberal Democrat MPs had been behaving like
'welfare junkies' addicted to abusing their Commons allowances.

'Local elections, the great British public should treat just as normal,' he
said. 'But at the European elections, in my judgment they should send a very
sharp message to the leaders of the three national parties by not voting for any
of the national party candidates.'

Norman Tebbit, who was one of Margaret Thatcher's closest allies, refused to say
which of the smaller parties he believed voters should back.

'I wouldn't seek to give any advice on that,' he said. 'But if there was an
enormous fall in the vote for the major parties, the message might get through.'

Lord Tebbit did say that he would urge the public not to support the 'socialist'
British National Party, which he described as 'Labour with racism'. His
long-standing Euroscepticism means his intervention will be seen as a suggestion
that voters consider backing the anti-EU UK Independence Party, though he was
careful not to mention it directly.

'People could vote Green, they could vote for all sorts of wider people, or they
could choose not to vote at all,' he said. 'That's the only message that these
people will understand ñ when voters refuse to vote for them.'

Lord Tebbit said he supported Gordon Brown's idea of MPs being paid a daily
attendance allowance in place of second-home claims.

Mr Cameron had been 'quite wrong' to oppose the idea on the grounds that it
would offer even less transparency than the current system, he said.

'It's perfectly transparent. If MPs are doing their job at Westminster, then
they are entitled to stay overnight at the taxpayers' expense.

'When they come to work in the chamber of the House of Commons or sitting on a
select committee, they should be entitled to claim an allowance of between £100
and £150 a night to accommodate themselves.'

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

It is time Britain took back control of its own destiny;
LEADER

BYLINE: Nigel Farage UK Independence Party leader

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 863  words


THERE'S a European election on June 4 but none of the established political
parties seems all that keen on telling you about it. Just as the clapped-out old
Westminster parties did not want you to know about the expenses claims of their
MPs so they do not want you to know what they're actually standing for in this
election.

The Lib Dems want to continue turning the Westminster Parliament into a parish
council, Labour is for more Gordon Brown no matter what and the Tories have been
sitting on the fence for so long they're in danger of getting impaled.

We in UKIP do want to tell you what we're standing for because we can't go on
like this:

locked into an undemocratic club that costs hard-pressed British taxpayers GBP
40million a day and dictates huge areas of our national life.

The most important thing any government does is to defend its borders yet
Parliament has given away almost all of our powers to do that. For example, as
the Daily Express recently revealed, a million Moldovans are about to get the
right to come here.

Yes, a million people from the poorest country in Europe will be able to come to
Britain and there's nothing we can do about it. The President of Romania gave
them Romanian passports so they can become EU citizens and then come to live
here. Remember how well that worked out when we did the same for the Poles and
other East Europeans? Millions arrived and it doesn't take too many to swamp the
ship of state. The President of Romania might be a very nice chap but neither
you nor I voted for him nor voted to give him the power to decide who can live
here.

MORE importantly there is no way we can vote against him and no way we can even
influence his decision. Westminster has also given away the power to decide who
can claim asylum.

Of course we should aid and shelter those who would be killed or persecuted in
their home countries.

But the rules are that those seeking asylum should do so in the first safe
country they get to: if that's France then France has to - yes, has to - offer
them help. Not encourage them to migrate to the coast to make it easier for them
to sneak into Britain. Looking out over Calais it's as if the place is twinned
with the UK benefits office.

Even that isn't enough for Brussels. Soon there'll be a new EU-wide system. When
a boatload lands on the shores of Malta, or a raft reaches Spain, Britain will
have to take 13 per cent of them. We won't even be able to decide who, they'll
just be allocated to us. Aren't you looking forward to that?

What this means to us here is obvious: immigrants of these various types make up
40 per cent of new households. That's a new one every six minutes.

Gordon Brown keeps boasting about jobs created but they were jobs for
immigrants: 500,000 in all. Jobs for British workers are actually down 140,000.

We'd like to do something about all of this but can't while we are locked into
the prison of nations that is the European Union. It's actually illegal under
their rules for us to favour our own. The only way we can change this is if we
leave the EU and have British laws for British people.

This is the heart of what we in the UK Independence Party are arguing and
fighting for: that British citizens should be the people who decide what happens
in Britain. That's why we were the only British political party in the European
Parliament to vote against allowing Bulgaria and Romania to join, creating more
millions who can come here.

It's also why we will vote against any further expansion, such as Turkey, which
will extend the right to live here to 80million more poor people.

Once we leave the EU we can start doing what we must: having a proper system to
choose whom we allow into our country - people who have the skills and qualities
to benefit our nation and not those who don't.

We could keep out foreign criminals, something that at the moment we can't. We
might like to let in the brave Gurkhas who have already demonstrated that they
are willing to fight and, if necessary, die for this nation.

The reason the Government is backsliding over this is simple: they know that
we're all concerned about immigration and that they've given away almost all of
our powers to do anything about it. We can't do anything about asylum seekers,
we can't do anything about millions from Eastern Europe and we can't do anything
about British jobs for British workers so let's stamp down hard on the Gurkhas,
just to show that we're doing something.

Contemptible isn't it?

JUST for the cherry on top there's a man in Brussels who decides these rules for
us. He's called Jacques Barrot. In November 2004 I revealed that a French court
found he had edirected public funds into the coffers o f his party. We've got a
man like that deciding which criminals can come to our country. The other
parties are happy for this mess to continue.

This is what this election can mean: you can tell the political classes what you
really think, how you want this country to be run. If you want it to be run by
us Brits and for us Brits then you should vote for UKIP. And also consider this:
the best way to give Gordon Brown a damn good kicking would be to make sure
Labour comes fourth by voting for UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWARMING: Immigrants attempting to board UK-bound lorries near Calais

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

Front: Expenses crisis: Cameron threatens to discipline MPs: Senior Tories
alleged to have claimed for cleaning pools and hanging chandeliers

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words


David Cameron was last night considering removing the Conservative whip from
some of the most senior party backbenchers in the wake of allegations that they
have abused the MPs' expenses system to build swimming pools, improve their
second homes, and even buy horse manure at the expense of the taxpayer.

The Tory leader was informed yesterday afternoon about some of the allegations.
His spokesman said last night he was appalled at what he had heard, and was
considering his disciplinary options.

A spokesman for the party said: "David Cameron can, with the agreement of the
chief whip, remove the party whip from these people; and there is no doubt he
will do this if he thinks it is appropriate." Three Tory MPs have responded to
the allegations by admitting culpability, saying they would repay the expenses
they claimed.

Cameron's initial tough response came in the wake of the first opinion poll that
suggested the Tory party was being damaged as much as Labour by exposure of MPs'
expenses claims. A Times/Populus poll showed Labour support down four points
since early April to 26%, just above its lowest figure last summer. But the
Tories are also four points down at 39%. The Liberal Democrats are up four
points to 22%, their highest for nearly four years. Alarmingly for the
Conservative party, the bulk of the poll was done before allegations against
Tory MPs were published.

If he decides to remove the party whip, Cameron will be taking a huge risk with
his personal authority since he will be disciplining some of the most senior
backbench figures inside the party. They include: former agriculture secretary
Douglas Hogg; Tory chairman of the defence select committee Sir James Arbuthnot;
chairman of the 1922 Tory backbench committee Sir Michael Spicer; leading
eurosceptic David Heathcoat-Amory; and former Conservative chairman Michael
Ancram.

Questions were also being raised by the Daily Telegraph, on the basis of its
access to MPs' expenses forms, over claims made by the former shadow home
secretary, David Davis, who challenged Cameron for the party leadership.

Hogg submitted a claim form for more than £2,000 to pay to clear the moat around
his country estate. Sir Michael Spicer, claimed £5,650 in nine months for his
garden upkeep. Michael Ancram claimed more than £14,000 a year in expenses while
owning three properties, none with a mortgage, and are together worth an
estimated £8m.

It was also claimed that deputy speaker Sir Alan Haselhurst claimed £142,119 for
his country home over the last seven years, despite having no mortgage. He had
been seen by some as candidate for the speakership if Michael Martin stood down
before the election.

Martin yesterday astonished some MPs by rounding on critics in Westminster,
including Labour MP Kate Hoey, accusing them of voicing their concerns by going
to the press.

So far Cameron has decided to take no action against any of his shadow cabinet
and has defended Andrew Lansley, shadow health secretary, and Michael Gove,
shadow children's secretary, from claims of "flipping" their homes .

Gordon Brown also responded yesterday to the systematic flouting of Commons
expenses rules by offering his own unreserved apology on behalf of all the
political classes at Westminster. It is the second public apology the prime
minister has been forced to give in a month, following his regret over leaked
emails showing his former aide trying to smear the Conservative leadership.

There is also a general fear, including among the Liberal Democrats, that it
will be parties outside Westminster ranging from Ukip to the Green party and the
British National party that will be the big beneficiaries at the European
elections on 4 June.

In the first signs that contrite MPs were taking unilateral steps to protect
their reputation, one leftwing Labour MP, Ronnie Campbell, announced that he
would try to set an example by paying back £6,000 in claims for furniture. John
Mann, another Labour backbencher, said MPs should have their expenses cut. He
also called for the Speaker to quit if he would not lead the campaign for
reform.

In an effort to quell public anger, Brown offered a clear apology and pressed
for an early report by the Commons committee on standards in public life. He
said: "We must show that we have the highest standards for our profession. And
we must show that, where mistakes have been made and errors have been
discovered, where wrongs have to be righted, that that is done so immediately.

"We have also to try hard to show people and think hard about how a profession
that, like yours, depends on trust - the most precious asset it has is trust -
how that profession too can show that it is genuinely there to serve the public
in all its future needs."

He also said: "I want to apologise on behalf of politicians, on behalf of all
parties, for what has happened in the events of the last few days."

Brown urged his MPs to show discipline and unity, insisting that by the time of
the general election the voters will be making decisions on the basis of big
economic divisions between the parties.

Many Labour MPs have expressed their anger at what they regarded as the partial
and distorted way their expenses claims were being reported in the Telegraph day
after day.

In an attempt to end the drip-by-drip damage on Westminster's integrity and
reputation, the Commons committee responsible for expenses met to see if it
should bring forward its planned publication of claims dating from 2004-08. But
it rejected a radical acceleration. Nick Harvey, a Liberal Democrat member of
the House of Commons commission, said it would bring forward the formal
publication of MPs' expenses from July to next month, if it could.

Polly Toynbee, page 31

Leader comment, page 32

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

Front: Hand up on handouts: Brown says sorry as poll shows expenses backlash

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editior

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 642 words


Gordon Brown responded to MPs' systematic flouting of Commons expenses rules by
offering an unreserved apology

yesterday on behalf of all the political classes at Westminser. It is the second
public apology that the prime minister has been forced to give in a month,
following his regret over leaked emails showing his former aide trying to smear
the Conservative leadership.

The apology, offered in a speech to the Royal College of Nurses, came as an
opinion poll - the first conducted since the expenses scandal broke n showed
that Labour has suffered political damage to its reputation, but the Tories have
also

suffered.

A Times/Populus poll showed Labour support had fallen by four points since early
April to 26%, just above its lowest

figure last summer. But the Tories are also four points down at 39%. The Liberal
Democrats are up four points to 22%, their highest for nearly four years.

The findings will put extra pressure on Cameron to punish those people inside
his shadow cabinet frontbench who have

clearly flouted the rules.

The Tory leader has offered an apology, but he has said so far that it is for
his MPs in the line of fire to answer for their behaviour. He defended two
shadow cabinet members, Andrew Lansley and Michael Gove, accused by the Daily
Telegraph of "flipping" their homes n changing the designation of their second
home in a bid to maximise their claims.

The Conservatives will be worried by the loss of support, since the bulk of the
sampling was undertaken before the Telegraph started to publish details of Tory
expense claims yesterday. But there is also a general fear, including among the
Liberal Democrats, that it will be parties outside

Westminster ranging from Ukip, the Green party and the British National party
that will be the big beneficiaries at the European elections on 4 June.

In the first signs that contrite MPs were taking unilateral steps to protect
their reputation, one leftwing Labour MP, Ronnie Campbell, announced that he
would try to set an example by paying back £6,000 in claims for furniture. John
Mann, another Labour backbencher, said MPs should take

a financial hit and have their expenses cut. He also called for the Speaker,
Michael Martin, to quit if he did not lead the campaing for reform.

In an effort to quell public anger, Brown offered a clear apology and pressed
for an early report by the committee on standards in public life. He said: "We
must show that we have the highest standards for our profession. And we must
show that, where mistakes have been made and errors have been discovered, where
wrongs have to be righted, that that is done so immediately. We have also to try
hard to show people and think hard about how a profession that, like yours,
depends on trust n the most precious asset it has is

trust n how that profession too can show that it is genuinely there to serve the
public in all its future needs." He also said: "I want to apologise on behalf of
politicians, on behalf of all parties, for what has happened in the events of
the last few days."

Brown urged his MPs to show discipline and unity, insisting that by the time of
the general election the voters will be making decisions on the basis of big
economic divisions between the parties.

Many Labour MPs have expressed their anger at what they regarded as the partial
and distorted way their expenses claims were being reported in the Telegraph day
after day.

In an attempt to end the drip-by-drip damage on Westminster's integrity and
reputation, the Commons committee responsible for expenses met to see if it
should bring forward its planned publication of claims dating from 2004-08. But
it rejected a radical acceleration. Nick Harvey, a Liberal Democrat member of
the House of Commons commission, said that it would bring forward the formal
publication of MPs' expenses from July to next month, if it could.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

National: Main parties unite to tackle BNP threat in European elections

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


The three main political parties will meet today at Westminster to try to agree
common ground rules on how to fight the British National party in the European
election on 4 June.

The meeting will look at a loose code of conduct, including an early warning
system if any party finds a rival candidate is resorting to semi-racist remarks
or literature.

The idea of imposing a blanket policy of refusing to share a platform with the
BNP, something the Tories oppose, will also be discussed.

The meeting will be held between the Tory chairman, Eric Pickles, the Labour
deputy leader, Harriet Harman, and Lady Scott, the Liberal Democrat president.

The BNP launched its European election manifesto yesterday, hoping that it will
be able to exploit public anger over MPs' expenses. Its leader, Nick Griffin,
said the party would threaten "tired, corrupt old politicians".

Behind the scenes, the Tories are angry that it has taken so long to set up the
meeting and claim it has been cancelled twice at short notice by Harman's
office.

One source claimed it even looked as if Harman would not mind if the BNP did
well because it would provide Labour with an alibi if it came third in the
elections.

Privately, MPs from all sides recognise that they are likely to be victims of an
anti-politics vote in the European and county council elections.

They can only hope other minor parties such as the Green party, Ukip or Libertas
benefit, rather than the BNP. A YouGov poll for the Sunday Times at the weekend,
put Ukip on 7% and the BNP on 4%.

4%

The British National party's share of the vote in the run-up to the European
elections, according to a recent poll

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

David Cameron warns Tebbit he could be expelled over call to boycott Tories

LENGTH: 536 words

ABSTRACT

Former Conservative party chairman called on voters to boycott three main
parties as protest against the way MPs at Westminster 'misbehaved' with expenses
claims

FULL TEXT

David Cameron today publicly warned Lord Tebbit, a darling of the Tory right and
former party chairman under Margaret Thatcher, that he could be expelled from
the Conservative party.

The move came after Tebbit urged voters not to support the Conservatives in next
month's European elections.

In an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Tebbit said voters should
boycott all the three main parties when voting for MEPs on 4 June.

He said this would enable voters to register a protest about the way MPs at
Westminster were "misbehaving". However, the comments were seen as a clear hint
that he wants people to vote for the United Kingdom Independence party.

At his press conference yesterday Cameron warned Tebbit to stick to his "very
careful path".

"As a former party chairman he should know a thing or two about party discipline
and he should probably know a thing or two about the rules about supporting
other parties. He was treading a very careful path and I would warn him: if he
slips off that path he's sitting as an independent."

Tebbit said he was "quite sure" he would be advising people to vote Tory at the
general election.

He also said that, in the local elections, people should vote "as they normally
do".

"What I am advising people is to show our major parties that it is the electors
who are masters, and the electors are extremely upset with their employees in
the House of Commons," he said.

"Of course not everybody is going to obey my suggestion, or accept my
suggestion, so what we would get is much the same result but on an extremely low
poll.

"The leaders of the major parties would be reminded that the electors can quite
easily show their displeasure.

"On this occasion, I hope that they would show it in this way. In a general
election, I am quite sure that I would be advising people to vote Conservative
in the same way that I am advising people in the local government elections to
vote in the way they normally do. Whether they choose to vote for one of the
other parties or not is a matter for them.

"I wouldn't advise anyone to vote for a party other than the Conservative party.
I am not doing that and I have never done that."

The BBC said Tebbit made clear before his interview that he would advise people
against backing the far-right British National party in protest against the
mainstream parties.

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, welcomed Tebbit's intervention. "The European
election is a very good opportunity to send a message to say you are not happy
with the whole rotten political system, which has given away our ability to make
most of our laws to Brussels whilst enriching itself," he told The World at One
on Radio 4.

The former Tory chairman said the controversy over expenses did not discredit
the Commons as an institution but the current generation of MPs.

"There is nothing wrong with the House of Commons," he said. "The institution is
sound, it is in good order.

"What is wrong is that the people who are currently in it are misbehaving. They
need a pretty powerful shot across their bows."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

MPs' expenses: we need to know which ones are clean

LENGTH: 1009 words

ABSTRACT

We know about the alleged transgressions of about 50 MPs but we still have no
idea about the other 600

FULL TEXT

Oh dear again. Just when you think the Great : the Speaker, Michael Martin,
sounding like a shop steward, swimming pool repairs on the bill, Norman Tebbit,
icon of the Tory right, more or less saying: "Vote Ukip, but not BNP" on June 4.

The morning papers are full of the , paddocks and moats, horse manure and the
occasional chandelier, all in handsome country houses of mature vintage.

David Cameron is reported to be contemplating disciplinary action, to really
mean it and to have cleared his desk for action from dawn today. Good.

Labour MP  is also said to be paying money back. Good. Someone has to show
leadership. Someone has to show contrition.

If all that wasn't bad enough,  and his own duty when he tried to make a brief
statement to MPs yesterday. Martin was more concerned about the breach of
confidence in the leak of the CDs about members' expenses than their contents.
He reproached backbenchers such as Kate Hoey - irritating, but
independent-minded - who questioned his priorities.

Douglas Carswell, novice Tory MP for Harwich, has been on the airwaves this
morning solemnly explaining why the intemperate Martin must be forced out
immediately and replaced. He's a nice chap, but not very good at being Speaker,
the MP explained.  is harsher than usual.

The trouble with that idea and similar bushy-tailed notions for reform is that
it might not work very well in practice, often a problem in real time. In the
next few months Martin is due to announce that he will step down around the time
of the next election. He hasn't said it, but he's nearly 64. I'm confident that
he will.

The question is: will Martin's successor be picked this side of polling day by
the current house - or afterwards by a new one whose composition is not easy to
predict in the current climate?  with smaller parties, including the Lib Dems,
benefitting.

It would be terrific news for politics if they get a clean bill of health: an
established party disaffected voters could reward. We await the Telegraph's
disclosure, though it would have been fairer to have revealed the overall share
of blame on day one instead of manipulating it.

Decent, low-mileage MPs like Chris Mullin complained yesterday about the "many
falsehoods" being circulated about the allowances during the paper's campaign.
He's right.

Tricky, isn't it? Does David Cameron want a discredited Labour majority to pick
the next Speaker? After all, there have been two successive Labour Speakers, as
there used to be mostly Tory Speakers in the 20th century. It's time for someone
else's turn. Is now the best moment to try?

The same sort of calculation affects . The former Tory chairman knows what he
can say to avoid getting expelled (as donor Stuart Wheeler was). Tebbit
complained that it is harder than it was for local activists to deselect their
MP.

The leading Euro-sceptic suggested that Tory activists might think of voting for
someone else, though not the BNP. The implication is: vote Ukip. An odd way to
respond to an expenses scandal, yes?

Of course, this whole row is part of the process of cleaning up the expenses
mess which has been growing under both main parties since the 1970s. The damning
bills actually exist now - as they once did not. "Just claim the monthly maximum
and put a line through the details," one MP recalls being told by officials when
he first arrived years ago.

It's a bit like the nuclear industry: the clear-up is uncomfortable and often
inept, but at least we know now what the problem is and are doing something
about it.

Meanwhile nothing I read in the Telegraph reduces the unease I feel about its
handling of the affair which it justifies on the grounds that MPs would have
buried the evidence of house "flipping" and other transgressions, but for its
own noble actions. We just don't have the means to test the paper's judgments.

One example I offer from today's coverage illustrates my point. Under the
headline "Clarke avoided full rate of council tax on two homes" the Telegraph
prints a complicated story about how the ex-chancellor claimed his east Midlands
constituency home (the photo shows a red bricked, suburban house, not a mansion
with a moat or pool) is his main home.

Clarke charged around £10,000 a year - that is, I think, half the maximum
additional costs allowance - on his London home near the Oval. But at the town
hall he claimed that he is in Nottingham so rarely that his loyal wife, Gillian,
deserves the 50% council tax concession as single resident.

Why did he not do that in London? The DT asked. Because it would just be a
transfer from one public body to another, he replied, not saving the taxpayer
money. He claims on his London home because he only has it because he is an MP.
His Nottingham home is much bigger. " I could have made much larger claims," he
explained.

. Not guilty? Read it, I'd be interested to know what you think.

So why was he given his own article in the DT, along with the moat and paddock
claimants? My guess is he's a big name (albeit not such a popular Tory with
Telegraph policymakers) and thus deemed worthy of naming-and-shaming along with
the moat-diggers and third-home claimants.

I suspect there's a lot of this going on. Rough justice, yes. We know about the
alleged transgressions of 50 or so members. But we still have NO IDEA how many
of the 646 current MPs are Mr and Mrs Clean. It matters. As everyone starts to
panic we should be told. The damage is serious and should be mitigated if that
is warranted.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

Lord Tebbit's act of mutiny

LENGTH: 465 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: His advice to boycott mainstream parties at the European
elections unsavoury support to the far right

FULL TEXT

Where are the Macaulays when you need them?

"We know no spectacle so ridiculous as the British public in one of its
periodical fits of morality," wrote the great historian. As the moralising of
the self-important reaches a hysterical crescendo, there will come a moment when
moats and manure, bath plugs and tampons will be seen as a wonderful moment of ,
but more on a Dad's Army scale than the real corruption of politics - the way
private business buys influence by offering lucrative directorships or fat
speaking fees to the star TV and press commentators.

Far more sinister is , interpreted as encouraging support for rightwing
anti-European parties in the 4 June election for the European parliament. The
rough equivalent would have been Tony Benn urging voters to support communist or
Trotskyist parties because they opposed Nato and the nuclear deterrent. Benn,
however, is Labour through and through. He has argued for a different Labour
party over the decades but has never urged Labour voters to vote for opposition
parties.

There are a number of odd parties standing in the European parliament elections.
But the only serious ones with a chance of inflicting damage on the mainstream
parties are the BNP and . Both share a politics of Britain pulling out of the
EU. The BNP, however, has a core antisemitic ideology. Its leaders trivialise or
deny the Holocaust. The only lengthy publication to Nick Griffin's name alleges
secret Jewish influence on the UK media.

My local paper, the , last week published a magnificent front page splash headed
"Kick the BNP in the ballots". It quoted church leaders in South Yorkshire
urging voters to vote for the mainstream democratic parties - any of them - but
not for the BNP.

Tebbit apparently told the BBC before Tuesday's interview that he would advise
people against voting for the BNP, as opposed to Ukip and other parties, but his
motive for calling for a protest vote against his own party is clear: to force
it to the right, particularly on the issues of immigration and Europe, in order
not to be outflanked by Ukip and the BNP at the next general election. In any
case, David Cameron should suspend Tebbit from Tory membership for this
dangerously demagogic act of mutiny. The world is now waking up to how extreme
the new isolationism fashioned by William Hague and adopted by Cameron really
is.

Ukip is the Tory party that dares speak its name. Just as the Commons needs to
clean up its act quickly and decisively, so too should voters clean up British
politics by rejecting the politicians who peddle snake-oil lies about Europe.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Tory sorry for being part of 'rotten system';
Michael Gove denies he 'flipped' second home to claim extra allowance

BYLINE: Michael Savage POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words


SENIOR FIGURES in David Cameron's Shadow Cabinet were forced to explain their
controversial use of expenses yesterday after the focus on MPs' allowances
shifted to the Conservatives.

In the latest round of revelations over the use of parliamentary expenses, it
was revealed that both the shadow Schools Secretary, Michael Gove, and the
shadow Health Secretary, Andrew Lansley, had switched the address of their
second home, allowing them to claim the allowance for more than one property.

The revelations over the abuse of expenses have damaged both main parties in the
eyes of the electorate, with the Liberal Democrats and fringe parties
benefiting. A Populus poll for the Times found support for Labour had fallen by
four points since last month to 26 points, with the Tories also four points down
on 39. The Liberal Democrats were up four to 22 per cent. Parties in the "other"
category, which includes the BNP, UKIP and the Greens, were up four points.

The Daily Telegraph revealed that Mr Gove spent £7,000 on a London property then
claimed thousands more for a new home in Surrey. It also said that he went on to
claim more than £13,000 in stamp duty on the property.

Mr Gove, a close ally of Mr Cameron, admitted that he was part of a "rotten"
system and apologised, but said he was not guilty of the charge of "flipping"
his second home to milk the system. He said the address of his second home had
genuinely changed when he wanted to spend more time with his family.

Mr Lansley spent taxpayers' money renovating a Tudor cottage, repainted with
premium paint at a total cost of £2,000. The driveway was reshingled using the
public purse. He then claimed thousands more on furnishing the new address, a
flat in London.

But he, too, said that his personal circumstances had changed. "In late 2005 my
daughter started at nursery school in Cambridgeshire and from that point onwards
my constituency home became my main home," he said. "All subsequent claims
reflect this legitimate change in my arrangements."

Chris Grayling, the shadow Home Secretary, claimed more than £10,000 in 2005 for
repairs on a London property that he bought with taxpayers' help. He reportedly
already owned several properties within the M25 including his main residence in
Surrey, 17 miles from Westminster.

He said that having a second home enabled him to meet his commitments to his
constituents as well as his responsibilities as a member of the Shadow Cabinet.
"I have always been entirely open to my constituents about this and published
information about it on my website," he said.

The shadow Leader of the House, Alan Duncan, was also included in the fresh
allegations. Mr Duncan, responsible for overseeing the party's expenses policy,
was issued with a warning after claiming more than £7,000 in gardening bills in
two years.

David Willetts, the shadow Universities Secretary, faced allegations that he
claimed more than £100 for the replacement of 25 light bulbs by an electrician -
leading to predictable jokes. He said yesterday that he had called in help
because of an electrical fault that was causing lights to blow.

Francis Maude, the shadow Cabinet Office minister, was criticised for claiming
expenses on a London flat that was a close walk from a house he already owned.
Cheryl Gillan, the shadow Welsh Secretary, apologised after claiming for dog
food. "I am sorry for this and will immediately repay the amount," she said.

Oliver Letwin, in charge of the party's election manifesto, claimed £2,000 from
the taxpayer for the repair of a pipe under his tennis court. He said the water
company had asked him to carry out the work.

Mr Cameron was found to have claimed a £680 bill for repairs to his constituency
home in Oxfordshire, which included clearing wisteria from its chimney. Speaking
about the claims made by his top team yesterday, he defended Mr Gove and Mr
Lansley, arguing that their personal circumstances had genuinely changed. But he
said all MPs had to "explain their own decisions" and leave constituents to make
up their own minds. "We have to be frank about understanding how angry the
public are about this, explaining our own circumstances, and explaining what
needs to be done to clean up the system," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

BNP GETS WRIT IN WEBSITE PIC ROW

BYLINE: TOM PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 165 words


BNP leader Nick Griffin was served with a legal claim yesterday for an pounds
8,000 debt as he launched the far-right party's Euro election campaign.

It follows the continued unauthorised use of a picture of UKIP leader Nigel
Farage on the party's website.

The BNP has refused to remove the shot by freelancer Mark Croucher, despite
being warned of court action in January.

A party spokesman said: "We'll probably challenge the judgment." Bailiffs handed
over the documents as the party gathered in Grays, Essex. Mr Griffin is standing
as a candidate in the North West where the party needs less than 10 per cent of
the overall vote to gain a foothold in Europe. A seat in Brussels would allow
them to claim tens of thousands of pounds in taxpayer-funded aid.

But a YouGov poll showed four per cent support for the BNP which, according to a
leaked memo, has abandoned a national campaign to concentrate on targeted areas.

Anti-fascist group Searchlight said: "Its support appears to be fading."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN Nick Griffin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Lancs Edition

BNP LEADER SERVED WRIT;
ELECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 45 words


BNP leader Nick Griffin was served with a writ yesterday over a pounds 12,000
debt to a photographer.

It follows the continued unauthorised use of a picture of UKIP leader Nigel
Farage on the party's website.

Mr Griffin is standing for election as a Euro MP in the North West..

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

WE'RE SOW SORRY;
LEADERS ADMIT GREEDY PIGMPs PIG MPs LET BRITAIN DOWN Brown and Cameron's apology
as fury grows

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE- WATSON; DAVID WOODING; CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1257 words


GORDON Brown and David Cameron apologised to the nation yesterday over the
scandal of MPs with their noses in the trough.

The PM said sorry on behalf of all parties as voters reacted furiously to leaked
details of how Parliament's expenses system is milked.

Tory leader Mr Cameron admitted the row had destroyed people's faith in
politicians. His MPs are also on the rack over expenses, following earlier
disclosures of outrageous Labour claims.

Ex-Farms Secretary Douglas Hogg put in a bill for £2,000 to have the MOAT around
his country seat cleared.

Meanwhile one Labour MP vowed to give back at least £6,000 of taxpayers' cash he
received.

And Commons chiefs pledged to publish all MPs' expenses receipts within weeks in
a bid to defuse the mounting national anger.

Wrongs

Mr Brown said: "We must show that we have the highest standards.

We must show that where mistakes have been made and errors discovered, where
wrongs have to be righted, that is done immediately.

"I want to apologise on behalf of politicians, on behalf of all parties for what
has happened in the events of the last few days." Mr Cameron said: "As everyone
can now see, politicians have failed to uphold their responsibilities.

Every individual MP has got to stand up and explain why they claimed what they
claimed.

"Politicians have got to put their hands up and say, 'We have tolerated a system
for too long that hasn't worked'.

"We have to be frank about how angry the public are about this and clean up the
system." Gordon Brown later told a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party
that it was right MPs expenses were "under scrutiny".

He warned his MPs they are in government "not to serve themselves but to serve
the public".

Eight top Tories were last night exposed for claiming tens of thousands of
pounds for work on their plush country estates.

The revelations are a hammer blow to Mr Cameron's efforts to show his party is
in touch with ordinary hard-working voters.

As well as Mr Hogg's moat, Sir Michael Spicer submitted a claim for £5,650 over
nine months to have his garden maintained - including work on a "helipad" and
hanging a chandelier.

Manure

Right-winger David Heathcoat- Amory, the fiercest critic of EU waste and fraud,
charged £380 for horse manure for his garden.

Super-rich Michael Ancram, the Marquess of Lothian, submitted a £14,000-a-year
claim despite owning three properties worth around £8million with NO mortgages.

Deputy speaker Sir Alan Haselhurst claimed £142,119 for his country home over
the last seven years, even though he owns the property outright. He put in bills
for £12,000 for gardening over five years at his Essex farmhouse.

Shadow minister Stewart Jackson asked for professional fees worth £11,000 during
the purchase of a new home in Peterborough just a year after becoming an MP.

Last night he agreed to repay a £300 bill for work on a swimming pool.

Grandee James Arbuthnot blew £1,471 having his swimming pool maintained. The
Eton-educated baronet's son said last night it was "an error of judgment" and he
would return the money.

He had claimed it as part of the upkeep for a house he rented before buying a
£2million mansion for cash. In fact he claimed for BOTH houses and was told by
officials: "No problem with this at all."

He notched up a staggering £108,062 in claims over five years - the maximum
possible. Mr Arbuthnot was until recently the chief whip of the Conservative
Party and in charge of his MPs' discipline.

It followed earlier revelations about Tory expenses.

Skills spokesman David Willetts billed for £115 plus VAT to have workmen fit 25
light bulbs at his second home in West London.

Two senior members of the shadow cabinet are accused of "flipping" -
redesignating their second homes and claiming to spruce up both residencies.

Health spokesman Andrew Lansley blew £4,000 renovating his country home months
before he sold it. And Shadow Schools Secretary

Michael Gove claimed £13,000 after he bought a new house.

Mr Gove, a close ally of Mr Cameron, denied flipping yesterday, insisting he had
moved his family into the new home.

Mr Lansley also denied switching homes. He said he made the change when his
daughter started school in his Cambridgeshire constituency.

Shadow Commons Leader Alan Duncan, who who put in a gardening bill, said all his
claims were legitimate.

But Shadow Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan has apologised for claiming the cost of
three packs of dog food.

The first Labour MP to promise to return money piled pressure on others to
follow suit.

Ronnie Campbell said: "I've spoken to my wife and we have agreed to give back at
least £6,000 claimed for furniture. We should not be claiming for furniture, we
were miles out of order. We were wrong, I cannot speak for my colleagues but I
am going to do it."

A growing number of MPs who have NOT had their snouts in the trough are furious
at attempts of others to defy the public anger.

One Tory said: "I'm appalled.

They think they can just say sorry and it will go away. But our electorate are
furious - and rightly so."

Chop

Mr Brown is already lining up Communities Secretary Hazel Blears for the chop in
a reshuffle in June. She used a loophole to escape paying capital gains tax on
the sale of her home.

Scotland Yard revealed last night it is considering whether or not to launch a
probe after complaints from the public about the expense claims of Transport
Secretary

Geoff Hoon and Chancellor Alistair Darling.

Mr Cameron yesterday opened the door for wholesale sackings from his party if
MPs are found to have acted wrongly.

He said: "If someone clearly did break the rules and that was totally
unjustifiable, there may be a case for action." A survey in The Times shows a
massive four-point drop in public support for Labour and the Tories.

And the Populus poll shows Lib Dems and smaller parties, including Ukip and the
far right BNP, are gaining support as a result.

The House of Commons Commission, which oversees MPs' affairs, promised last
night to try to bring forward the publication of MPs' expenses receipts from the
planned date of mid-July.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Six

A FLIPPING CHEEK

MP Margaret Moran coins in tens of thousands of public cash - while a nurse in
her constituency pays £75 a week to get to London.

The Luton South MP switched her second home to the Southampton house she shares
with her partner - just days before spending £22,500 on dry rot.

She then switched or "flipped" between her Westminster,

Luton and Southampton homes, spending thousands decorating each over four years.

Labour MP Ms Moran, on £64,766 a year, said: "It is all within the claims
policy." In a shocking comparison Gerry Bradley, 52, has to drive to Hammersmith
hospital in central London every day.

The hour-long trip costs £60 to £75 a week in fuel. Gerry said: "I leave at 6am
to get to work by 7.30 and don't usually finish until around 9pm.

"I get to spend an hour at the end of the day with my wife. I think MPs should
earn what the average person in the UK earns, which is £22,000.

"If they live outside London, they should be provided with the same standard of
accommodation that we give soldiers."

TROUGH V TOUGH MARGARET MORAN GERRY BRADLEY LABOUR MP £64,766pa plus £74,000
allowances since 2004 Luton London Three homes, in Luton, London & Southampton
NURSE £30,000pa Luton London Car to commute 36miles daily JOB SALARY LIVES WORKS
NEEDS

'We must show we have the highest standards.I want to apologise for what
happened' GORDON BROWN

'As everyone can now see,politicans have failed to uphold their
responsibilities' DAVID CAMERON

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2

WE'RE SOW SORRY;
LEADERS ADMIT GREEDY PIG MPs LET BRITAIN DOWN Brown and Cameron's apology as
fury grows

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE- WATSON; DAVID WOODING; CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1077 words


GORDON Brown and David Cameron apologised to the nation yesterday over the
scandal of MPs with their noses in the trough.

The PM said sorry on behalf of all parties as voters reacted furiously to leaked
details of how Parliament's expenses system is milked.

Tory leader Mr Cameron admitted the row had destroyed people's faith in
politicians. His MPs are also on the rack over expenses, following earlier
disclosures of outrageous Labour claims.

Ex-Farms Secretary Douglas Hogg put in a bill for £2,000 to have the MOAT around
his country seat cleared. He even claimed for piano tuning.

Meanwhile one Labour MP vowed to give back at least £6,000 of taxpayers' cash he
received.

And Commons chiefs pledged to publish all MPs' expenses receipts within weeks in
a bid to defuse the mounting national anger.

Mr Brown said: "We must show that we have the highest standards.

We must show that where mistakes have been made and errors discovered, where
wrongs have to be righted, that is done immediately.

"I want to apologise on behalf of politicians, on behalf of all parties for what
has happened." Mr Cameron said he acknowledged many people felt MPs had their
"snouts in a trough".

He said: "As everyone can now see, politicians have failed to uphold their
responsibilities. Every individual MP has got to stand up and explain why they
claimed what they claimed.

"Politicians have got to put their hands up and say, 'We have tolerated a system
for too long that hasn't worked'. We are going to have to rebuild trust brick by
brick.

We have to clean up the system." Mr Brown later told a meeting of the
Parliamentary Labour Party that it was right MPs expenses were "under scrutiny".

He warned his MPs they are in government "not to serve themselves but to serve
the public".

Eight top Tories were last night exposed for claiming tens of thousands of
pounds for work on their plush country estates.

The revelations are a hammer blow to Mr Cameron.

Sir Michael Spicer submitted a claim for £5,650 over nine months to have his
garden maintained - including work on a "helipad" and hanging a chandelier. Last
night he claimed the helipad was a "family joke".

Right-winger David Heathcoat- Amory, the fiercest critic of EU waste and fraud,
charged £380 for horse manure for his garden.

Super-rich Michael Ancram, the Marquess of Lothian, submitted a £14,000-a-year
claim despite owning three properties worth around £8million with no mortgages.

Deputy speaker Sir Alan Haselhurst claimed £142,119 for his country home over
the last seven years, even though he owns the property outright. He put in bills
for £12,000 for gardening over five years at his Essex farmhouse.

Shadow minister Stewart Jackson asked for professional fees worth £11,000 during
the purchase of a new home in Peterborough just a year after becoming an MP.

Last night he agreed to repay a £300 bill for work on a swimming pool. And
grandee James Arbuthnot blew £1,471 having his swimming pool maintained.

The Eton-educated baronet's son said last night it was "an error of judgment"
and he would return the money.

He had claimed it as part of the upkeep for a house he rented before buying a
£2million mansion for cash.

In fact he claimed for both houses and was told by officials: "No problem with
this at all." He notched up a staggering £108,062 in claims over five years -
the maximum possible.

Mr Arbuthnot was until recently the chief whip of the Conservative Party and in
charge of his MPs' discipline.

It also emerged former Home Secretary David Davis claimed for more than £10,000
of home renovations and furnishings, including a new £5,700 portico porch.

Last night's shocks followed earlier revelations about Tory expenses.

Skills spokesman David Willetts billed for £115 plus VAT to have workmen fit 25
light bulbs at his second home in West London.

Two senior members of the shadow cabinet are accused of "flipping" -
redesignating their second homes and claiming to spruce up both residencies.

Health spokesman Andrew Lansley blew £4,000 renovating his country home months
before he sold it. And Shadow Schools Secretary Michael Gove claimed £13,000
after he bought a new house.

Mr Gove, a close ally of Mr Cameron, denied flipping yesterday, insisting he had
moved his family into the new home.

Mr Lansley also denied switching homes. He said he made the change when his
daughter started school in his Cambridgeshire constituency.

Shadow Commons Leader Alan Duncan, who who put in a gardening bill, said all his
claims were legitimate.

But Shadow Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan has apologised for claiming the cost of
three packs of dog food.

The first Labour MP to promise to return money piled pressure on others to
follow suit.

Ronnie Campbell said: "I've spoken to my wife and we have agreed to give back at
least £6,000 claimed for furniture. We should not be claiming for furniture, we
were miles out of order. We were wrong, I cannot speak for my colleagues but I
am going to do it." A growing number of MPs who have not had their snouts in the
trough are furious at attempts of others to defy the public anger.

One Tory said: "I'm appalled.

They think they can just say sorry and it will go away. But our electorate are
furious - and rightly so." Mr Brown is already lining up Communities Secretary
Hazel Blears for the chop in a reshuffle in June. She used a loophole to escape
paying capital gains tax on the sale of her home.

Scotland Yard revealed last night it is considering whether or not to launch a
probe after complaints from the public about the expense claims of Transport
Secretary

Geoff Hoon and Chancellor Alistair Darling.

Mr Cameron yesterday opened the door for wholesale sackings from his party if
MPs are found to have acted wrongly.

He said: "If someone clearly did break the rules and that was totally
unjustifiable, there may be a case for action." A survey in The Times shows a
massive four-point drop in public support for Labour and the Tories.

And the Populus poll shows Lib Dems and smaller parties, including Ukip and the
far right BNP, are gaining support as a result.

The House of Commons Commission, which oversees MPs' affairs, promised last
night to try to bring forward the publication of MPs' expenses receipts from the
planned date of mid-July.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Six

'We must show we have the highest standards.I want to apologise for what
happened' GORDON  BROWN

'As everyone can now see,politicans have failed to uphold their
responsibilities' DAVID CAMERON

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 12, 2009 Tuesday 3:47 PM GMT

David Cameron threatens Lord Tebbit with expulsion

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 187 words


It's understandable that with all hell breaking loose on expenses there's little
space to clock other significant stories. But we've just heard David Cameron
threaten Lord Tebbit with expulsion from the party. The former chairman and
poster boy of the Right suggested today that the row over MPs' expenses gives
voters the "ideal opportunity" to vote for fringe parties and send a message to
Labour, Tories and the Lib Dems. With Westminster in a panic over the effect
this sorry saga will have on fringe parties such as UKIP and BNP, it's an
explosive thing to say.

The iron rule of political parties is that urging support for your party's
rivals is a sackable offence. What to do about the Chingord Polecat is
exercising the conservative blogosphere, as you will see over at
ConservativeHome. Mr Cameron's verdict when asked if he will sack the wayward
peer: "As a former chairman he should know a thing or two about party discipline
and about party rules and about supporting other parties. He's treading a very
careful path, and I would warn him if he slips off that path he will find he's
sitting as an independent."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 12, 2009 Tuesday 2:20 PM GMT

I still can't find a single Labour voter: Gordon Brown is finished

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 437 words


This is starting to feel wrong, like a scene in a horror film where the hero
enters a village to find it deserted. I have been been pestering the good people
of the Home Counties for over a week now. I have knocked on hundreds of doors,
fiddled with catches on dozens of groaning garden gates, admired gorgeous walls
of wisteria, scrunched leaflets through stubborn draft excluders, molested
shoppers on high streets. I have even clambered onto soap-boxes and harangued
passers-by. And I still haven't met anyone who is planning to vote Labour on 4
June.

Shouting at voters in Newport with Dona Ratcliff and Tony Devenish

In Maidstone with two of my favourite Tories:                       Therese
Coffey and Helen Grant

It's true that my constituency is traditionally Centre-Right. If it were in
France, it would be the Vendée, if in Spain, Navarre. The people of South East
England are independent, patriotic, entrepreneurial. Their fathers were strong
for Protestantism in the 16th century, and for Parliament in the 17th. Labour
has never had much appeal here, and its supporters are scattered across a
handful of urban seats: Portsmouth, Southampton, Reading, Dover, the easterly
estates of Oxford. Even so, you'd expect to meet the odd socialist. I mean,
Labour is the party in office, for Heaven's sake.

But not a bit of it. Over the past six days, I have traced a slow arc from Kent
to the Isle of Wight. I've met plenty of ex-Labour voters. I've even spoken to a
handful who might vote Labour at the next general election. But I haven't come
across a single one who is planning to support Gordon Brown in three weeks'
time.

Westminster pundits continue to assure each other that the expenses row will hit
all the main parties. Journalists collude with politicians to talk up the
Left-wing BNP - aptly described by Norman Tebbit yesterday as "Labour with
racism". Yet the opinion polls stubbornly, and thankfully, refuse to register
any meaningful support for that party. No, I'm holding to my prediction. In the
South East, at any rate, the anti-Labour vote is shifting directly and
enthusiastically to David Cameron. The Lib-Dems and UKIP are slugging it out for
a distant second place. Labour is turning to rubble. Pull yourselves, brothers!
Even we Tories don't want the party of Keir Hardie and Ernie Bevin to disappear
entirely. Listen to Polly Toynbee. It's too late to avoid demolition; but you
might yet avoid extinction if, at this late hour, you find the courage to change
your leader.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 12, 2009 Tuesday 12:50 PM GMT

MPs' expenses: Will Lord Tebbit's boycott call backfire?

BYLINE: By David Hughes

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 225 words


Lord Tebbit's call  for a boycott of the big parties because of the culture of
cupidity this newspaper has uncovered at Westminster comes as no surprise.

While he was careful not to urge people to vote for UKIP - such a move could
trigger his expulsion from the Conservative Party - few doubt that this is what
he wants to see. Tebbit's brand of Euroscepticism would fit perfectly in UKIP.

There's just one flaw to the "vote UKIP to clean up politics" theory. UKIP has
an even less lustrous track record than the Westminster parties.

Two MEPs elected to the European Parliament four years ago on the UKIP ticket
have got themselves into serious trouble -  not with the parliamentary
authorities, but with the police.  Last month the East of England MEP Tom Wise
was charged with false accounting and money laundering over allegations that he
misused nearly 40,000 in expenses. And in 2007 Ashley Mote, the MEP for South
East England, was imprisoned for nine months for falsely claiming 65,000 in
welfare benefits. He has served his sentence but because that was less than one
year he has not had to forfeit his seat.

Both men have been expelled from UKIP, and now sit as independents. But it just
goes to show that when it comes to questions of ethics, it can be a risky
business blaming political parties for the alleged behaviour of individual
members.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Far right mines a rich seam of disaffection from pit closures;
Martin Fletcher finds the BNP winning support and flourishing among former
Labour voters Barnsley

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1564 words


Outside a large, modern pub on the edge of Barnsley, penned in by police, 150
demonstrators chant "Nazi scum off our streets" and "String 'em up like
Mussolini".

Inside, Nick Griffin, leader of the British National Party, is whipping up 300
white, working-class supporters - men and women, young and old - with a speech
tailor-made for these days of deepening recession, rising unemployment and
profound disillusion with expenses-fiddling mainstream politicians.

"This country is full. It's time to shut the doors and look after our own
people," he declares from a platform adorned with a huge Union Jack. Britain
should leave the European Union so it can stop the "huge swamping wave of mass
immigration from places like Poland which has put hundreds of thousands of our
people out of a job".

Instead of bailing out "greedy, corrupt, incompetent banks", Westminster's
"scumbag, thieving politicians" should be using those billions to rebuild
British industry.

Mr Griffin expresses sympathy for the 1984 miners strike, triggered by the
closure of the Cortonwood colliery in Barnsley. He denounces the Government's
privatisation programme.

He accuses Labour of crushing ordinary people to ensure maximum profit for its
corporate financiers. "It has sold out," he thunders. "The old Labour Party is
dead. Long live the new party for British workers - the BNP." His audience
stands and cheers. "Labour has sold this country down the Swannee," declares
Christine Hanson, 59, whose two sons fought in Iraq.

"Why the f*** should foreign people take English jobs when there are English
lads who can't get work," says a young man in a baseball cap - one of the more
thuggish faction.

It is a remarkable speech for the leader of a far-right party: large chunks of
it could have been delivered by Barnsley's very own Arthur Scargill. But the
shameless economic populism and scapegoating of immigrants resonates in
struggling towns like Barnsley, and look set to propel the BNP to a startling
breakthrough in next month's European elections.

In the Yorkshire and Humberside constituency the BNP needs only about 11.5 per
cent of the vote to win one of the six seats. It took 8 per cent in 2004, and
support for the rival UK Independence Party, which took 14.5 per cent, has since
collapsed along with the economy.

The BNP has an even better chance of capturing seats in the North West
Euro-constituency, where Mr Griffin is the BNP's lead candidate, and in the West
Midlands.

The prospect of the BNP sending MEPs to Strasbourg alarms the established
parties, and with good reason. Success on June 4 would generate great dollops of
publicity and credibility, hundreds of thousands of euros in EU funding, and the
right to participate in political programmes on radio and television. It would
undoubtedly accelerate what Mr Griffin calls a "virtuous upward spiral" for a
party that already claims to be the fastest growing in Britain.

In the bluff northern town of Barnsley, where ugly concrete blocks jostle with
fine old public buildings in a town centre ringed by rows of terraced housing,
Labour was struggling to counter the BNP's advance well before the recession
struck.

This is a former coalmining community where 15,000 men were employed in 16 pits
as recently as the 1980s, and whose economy and raison d'être collapsed when the
last of those pits was closed in the early 1990s.

Those mines have now vanished beneath shopping centres, industrial estates or
country parks, and the handsome stone building that housed Mr Scargill's
once-mighty National Union of Mineworkers is occupied by little besides ghosts.

But many of Barnsley's 220,000 inhabitants remain wedded to "old Labour", and
feel betrayed by a "new Labour" Government that has - they believe - forgotten
its working-class roots and ceased fighting for the underdog as its members milk
the public purse.

The town's deprivation is obvious in the downmarket shops - though it does have
a wonderful market - and ubiquitous groups of unemployed youths loitering on
street corners. There is little industry left. The council and hospital are the
biggest employers.

Outside the public sector, employment is mostly in minimumwage retail or service
jobs. A quarter of the workforce is economically inactive and on some form of
benefits, and the town has one of the highest rates of obesity - 10 per cent -
in England.

Barnsley's sense of betrayal helped the BNP to secure 17 per cent of the vote in
last May's local elections, and although it won no council seats it beat the
Conservatives and Liberal

Democrats into third place behind Labour and the independents. Since then the
party's prospects have only improved.

Nationally, Labour staggers from one debacle to another, while locally the
recession has clobbered an economy that had begun to recover for the first time
since the pits closed.

The number claiming jobseeker's allowance has doubled in the past year, and the
Jobcentre has opened an overspill office in the library. Repossession orders
rose 39 per cent in 2008.

The Barnsley Building Society has been swallowed up by the Yorkshire after
unwisely investing in Icelandic banks. Numerous shops have closed.

Steve Dutton, owner of the Fleets pub where Mr Griffin spoke, said he let the

BNP use his premises despite dozens of protests because "at this point in time I
can't afford to lose any custom at all".

The council's £300 million plan to demolish and rebuild a quarter of the town
centre, part of its ambitious regeneration programme, has been put on hold. A
small mountain of rubble in the town centre marks the spot where Barnsley
College was recently demolished, but the Learning and Skills Council - a
government agency - can no longer afford the £42 million it promised for a new
campus.

Barnsley's discontent is pervasive, and you can sense the accelerating defection
of Labour supporters to the BNP in a town where the Tories are still reviled,
the Liberal Democrats have made little headway and Mr Griffin's party is losing
its pariah status.

Barnsley's BNP is well organised, well funded and active at grassroots level. It
claims to have put 65,000 leaflets through letterboxes last year, and mans a
stall in the town centre market every Saturday where it promises "British jobs
for British people". It mines a rich vein of xenophobia in a town that is still
97 per cent white by claiming that East Europeans have stolen local jobs and
driven down wages, and by portraying the town as an enclave of Britons ringed by
large, threatening Muslim communities.

"We've been going down ever since they shut the mines ... Labour has done nowt
for us and I think someone else should be given a chance," says Jean Cook, 53, a
taxi driver, as she drives The Times around the town.

Andrew Scorah, 26, an unemployed gardener attending a Credit Crunch Roadshow in
the library, says: "Labour have done a crap job ... everybody I talk to says
they're going to support the BNP." Alvin Kellett, 71, a former miner attending
Mr Griffin's rally, says: "The BNP is growing, growing, growing every day,
people are that p***ed off with the Labour Government." Eric Illsley, one of
Barnsley's three Labour MPs, joined the demonstration outside. "The BNP
exaggerates people's fears and worries about unemployment and losing their jobs
and that's how they thrive here," he counters. "It's sad people get taken in by
the rubbish they peddle." Barnsley's Labour-run council has made strenuous
efforts to revive the town's fortunes in recent years. It has built a new £22
million transport hub and a digital centre for start-up businesses, converted
the old Civic

Hall into an arts centre, persuaded the University of Huddersfield to open a
satellite campus in the town and will soon start rebuilding all its 14 secondary
schools in the biggest programme of its kind in Britain.

It is offering under-18s free transport and free swimming, and has frozen the
council tax for the elderly.

"It's a way of saying we've not forgotten you, no matter what the BNP says,"
Steve Houghton, the council leader, tells The Times. But such measures seem to
count for little when set against the savagery of the slump and the Government's
bungling.

Mr Houghton says the Government has done a lot to help the white working class
through tax credits and by raising the minimum wage, but needs to communicate
much better - "the Labour Party can't afford to let its core vote get
disaffected".

Robert Cockroft, editor of the Barnsley Chronicle, believes mainstream
politicians must start engaging, not ostracising, the BNP. "We get letters from
Labour councillors calling them names, but these days that's not sufficient.
They have to engage in the arguments," he says.

Meanwhile, because a low turnout would favour the BNP, some Labour councillors
are taking the remarkable step of urging disgruntled supporters to vote Tory or
Liberal Democrat on June 4 - anything but stay at home.

"We understand your anger. We know you want to give us a kick up the proverbial,
but vote for anybody but the BNP because they're dangerous," says one, Mike
Stokes.

Another, Joe Hayward, a former mayor who was once attacked by a BNP candidate
while distributing anti-fascist leaflets, says: "I'm very concerned. If I
remember rightly, a bloke called Adolf Hitler came to power during a recession."

Barnsley's discontent is pervasive. You can sense the accelerating defection of
Labour voters Martin Fletcher

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Plans to spend £300 million on town centre redevelopment are on hold
Pub-goers in Barnsley listening to a characteristically uncompromising Nick
Griffin denounce privatisations and express sympathy for striking miners
PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID BEBBER
A statue in the town reflects the influence that the pits still have in Barnsley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2

Revulsion at conduct of MPs, poll shows;
Sharp drop in support for Labour and Tories Revulsion at the conduct of MPs

BYLINE: Peter Riddell; Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words


Voters are united in revulsion over the disclosures on MPs' expenses and have
turned against both main parties, a Populus poll for The Times finds today.

The poll, taken between Friday and Sunday, suggests a sharp drop in support for
Labour and the Conservatives, with the Liberal Democrats and smaller parties,
including the British National Party, benefiting.

An overwhelming majority of people believe that MPs are self-serving, out of
touch and guilty of abuse.

The findings follow a public apology from Gordon Brown on behalf of all parties
and a row in the Commons involving the Speaker as tensions in Westminster
reached breaking point.

The House of Commons Commission agreed last night to bring forward the official
publication of MPs' claims by a month to June. It also said that efforts to find
the source of the leaked expenses had to intensify because of fears that
confidential details about MPs might be passed to criminals.

The poll was carried out after the first stories about expense claims by Labour
ministers and MPs but before disclosures about senior Tories.

David Cameron, the Conservative leader, was said to be "appalled" last night at
a string of fresh disclosures by The Daily Telegraph about his backbench MPs.

Among those embarrassed by the latest revelations was James Arbuthnot, a former
chief whip, who last night apologised after claiming £1,471 in a year for
swimming pool maintenance, gardening and fuel. Sir Michael Spicer, the party's
most senior backbench MP, claimed £5,650 towards gardening, including "hedge
cutting . .

helipad". Sir Michael said last night that the helipad was a "family joke".
Douglas Hogg, a former Agriculture Secretary, denied claiming £2,000 to clear a
moat on his estate.

Mr Cameron is believed to be considering disciplinary action against some of
those named, including suspension of the party whip. Frontbenchers considered to
have behaved improperly could lose their jobs.

Scotland Yard confirmed that it was looking into allegations of misuse of
expenses against six MPs, including Geoff Hoon, the Transport Secretary, and
Alistair Darling, the Chancellor. It has already decided not to act against
Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary.

The poll shows exceptionally high levels of agreement that " all the par- ties
are as bad as each other" in abusing the system of expenses and allowances
(backed by 86 per cent), and that the way MPs have acted confirms "how
self-serving and out of touch most are" (85 per cent). Four in five (79 per
cent) also agree that, even if allowed, "if MPs had any integrity they would
never have claimed for the cost of many things they did claim for, such as
furnishings, cleaners and trivial household items".

A similar proportion said that the MPs' defence that their claims were allowed
under the rules did not wash. Support for Labour has fallen by 4 points since
early April to 26 per cent, just above its low last summer. The Tories are also
down 4 at 39 per cent. The Liberal Democrats are the main beneficiaries, up 4
points to 22 per cent, their highest position for nearly four years. Other
parties are also 4 points up at 13 per cent .

This is mainly spread between the nationalist parties, the BNP, UKIP and the
Greens. The figures point to bad results for Labour in the local and European
elections on June 4. Half of people think that the departure of Mr Brown as
Prime Minister would not improve Labour's prospects.

Neither would his replacement by Alan Johnson, the Health Secretary, Mr Brown
told the Royal College of Nursing yesterday: "I want to apologise on behalf of
politicians, on behalf of all parties, for what has happened in the events of
the last few days ... We must show that we have the highest standards for our
profession."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 11, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

No chance of Tories giving us a vote on hated treaty

SECTION: LETTERS; 48

LENGTH: 137  words


SO, Frederick Forsyth, you want David Cameron and co. to guarantee us a vote on
the EU constitution, also known as the Lisbon Treaty ("Tories must make a
referendum pledge", May 8)? you'll be lucky.

The Conservative Party remains as committed as Labour to our continued
membership of the EU, and just as opposed to a ballot, I regret to say.

The Tories took us into the Common Market, as it then was, and signed the Single
European Act and Treaty of Maastricht, both without referendums.

They'll pledge a referendum on Lisbon if they see that as the only way to
achieve office. But given the unpopularity of the Labour Government, there's no
need for that at present.

The only way we could leave the EU would be if the majority of voters supported
the UK Independence Party, which is dedicated to withdrawal.

Mike Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 11, 2009 Monday

Britain - Only People's Charter will 'save Labour's bacon'

LENGTH: 264 words


Britain's communists argued at the weekend that only a "tidal wave of struggle"
around policies articulated in the People's Charter can force ministers to
change course and save Labour at the next general election.

Morning Star political editor and Communist Party of Britain (CPB) executive
member John Haylett called on trade union leaders to "use their financial
leverage to demand massive investment in productive industry, full public
ownership of the Royal Mail and the railways, the Trade Union Freedom Bill and
the closure of all tax havens under British jurisdiction."

Addressing a CPB executive committee meeting on Saturday, he said: "Only a tidal
wave of struggle for the kind of policies in the People's Charter can force the
government to change course and save Labour's bacon at the next general
election."

And Mr Haylett stressed the importance of support for the anti-EU platform No2EU
- Yes to Democracy in next month's EU elections.

"Campaigning to maximise the vote must now be a top priority, projecting the
working-class, anti-monopoly and anti-racist alternative to the BNP and UKIP,"
he insisted.

The committee also condemned recent abortive police raids for "whipping up a
climate of fear in our Muslim communities" and called for the dismantling of the
'surveillance state" with its huge DNA database of innocent citizens.

Mr Haylett predicted that "the Afghan war is spreading into Pakistan and could
become as big a disaster as Iraq," while urging a big turnout for the Palestine
Solidarity Campaign's Remember Gaza - End the Siege Now march in London on May
16.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Right and Wrong;
The British National Party is both an ideological disgrace and hopeless in
practice. The main parties must do more to encourage voting in the European
elections

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words


"Britain today is a society living in fear. Our society is overcrowded,
splintered and bankrupt.

We stand on the brink of destruction." Every few years the British National
Party claims to have become more sophisticated. But its reliance on an
apocalyptic picture of a country on the cusp of collapse is constant. The
culprits leading Britain to this brink are, as usual, immigrants, welfare
scroungers and an imperial European Union.

That is not to say that the BNP does not pose a genuine threat at the
forthcoming European elections.

In the North West, for example, where the party's leader, Nick Griffin, is
standing, the BNP only needs to go from 6.4 per cent to 8 per cent to be
virtually guaranteed a seat. A single MEP could deliver the BNP as much as
£250,000 a year in salaries and office costs. An only slightly bigger increase
in the vote is needed in Yorkshire and The Humber and the West Midlands.

There have been false dawns before for the BNP. But there are three reasons to
think that this time the danger is more real. First, a high turnout is the best
antidote to extremism. The turnout in 2004 was abnormally high - more than
double what it had been in 1999 - because council elections took place
simultaneously in most of the West Midlands and the North and, in four regions
the elections were all-postal ballots. That may not be repeated this time.

Second, the last European election was dominated by the political success of the
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) which won 16 per cent of the national
vote and gained 12 MEPs. UKIP has now all but imploded: some at least of that
anti-European vote is back in play.

Third, recession, rising unemployment and a political class held in low public
esteem provide - as government politicians regularly, and counter-productively,
remind us - propitious circumstances for the politics of the far Right.

Nobody should have any doubts that these are indeed the politics of the far
Right. Non-whites are, in the BNP's own euphemism, firmly encouraged to seek
voluntary repatriation. Party membership is restricted to "indigenous British
ethnic groups". One of the party's major concerns is what it calls the
Islamification of Britain. Even for that sliver of this country that shares such
nonsensical views, the BNP is hopeless. Ideologically, they are a disgrace;
practically, they are a joke. Like all small extremist parties, they are prone
to splintering into even smaller ones. The latest internal dispute led 60
dissidents to begin referring to themselves as the "Real BNP".

When forced to conduct real local politics the BNP is quickly revealed to be
pointless. In Burnley, where three councillors were elected in 2002, the BNP
contingent failed to turn up for the meeting to set the budget. In Barking, in
2005, Councillor Daniel Kelley retired after just 10 months, claiming he had
been an outcast. In October 2007, James Lloyd, a BNP councillor, was
disqualified from Sandwell Council for not attending a single meeting in a
six-month period.

It is a good thing that a discenchanted electorate has somewhere else to cast
its ballots. But there is no iron of law of politics that decrees that such
sentiment needs to be turned to malign effect. In 1989 the Green party won 15
per cent of the popular vote in the European elections. Not even its most
committed supporters really interpreted that vote as a sudden upsurge of
environmental concern. It was, instead, the register of protest, a claim that
none of the main parties had done enough to warrant their support.

To alert voters to the reality of the BNP, the main parties need to make their
own case and persuade people that, no matter what they think about the state of
politics in general, the BNP is worse than just useless, it is bad. A vote for
the BNP is a vote for extremism and intolerance..

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 10, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Recession anger may cost Labour half its seats in local elections

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 598 words


LABOUR is in danger of "wipeout" in the June 4 local elections, losing up to
half the 500 seats and all four councils it is defending, an analysis for The
Sunday Times shows, writes David Smith.

The party will go into next month's local elections in third place behind the
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, according to the study by Professors Colin
Rallings and Michael Thrasher of the Elections Centre, University of Plymouth.

Next month's local elections will see voting in 34 local authorities in England,
mainly outside the big cities, alongside the nationwide European parliament
poll. There are also three votes for directly elected mayors, in Doncaster,
Hartlepool and North Tyneside.

These elections were last contested on general election day in 2005, since which
time there has been a double-figure opinion poll swing from Labour to the
Tories.

Rallings and Thrasher compile an alternative measure of public opinion, based on
actual voting in council by-elections. The latest such survey puts the Tories on
a national equivalent vote share of 40%, up nine points on four years ago. The
Liberal Democrats are on 27%, the same as in 2005, with Labour down nine points
on 25%..

"If these figures are reflected in the actual votes cast in June, the Tories
would gain over 300 seats with Labour down by nearly 250," Rallings and Thrasher
write in their analysis.

"The Lib Dems would also lose out as many voters switch directly from Labour.

"On that basis Labour will post its worst county results since 1977. Then, as
now, an unpopular Labour government faced voters reeling from the impact of
recession." A wipeout in the local elections would indicate that Labour is
haemorrhaging support in its non-metropolitan heartland. Derbyshire,
Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire have been Labour-controlled since 1981, with
Labour briefly losing its overall majority in Lancashire in 1985. All would slip
from its grasp on modest swings to the Tories of between 1% and 5%.

Party managers will be trying to dampen expectations ahead of the elections but
the story is clear, according to Rallings and Thrasher.

"The Tories may be at a historic high water mark across local government, but
there is room for improvement in this particular election cycle," they write.
"Nothing less than gains well into three figures and a share of the national
vote above 40% will justify the claim that David Cameron is on his way to
Downing Street." A strong Tory showing, however, would not just hit Labour. The
Tories would take Devon on a 3% swing away from the Liberal Democrats;in
Somerset a swing of just 2% since 2005 is needed.

Rallings and Thrasher think that minor parties such as the British National
party, the Green party and the UK Independence party will do less well in local
elections than in the European vote.

"Voters opt for the more traditional parties when tangible local issues and
control of their council tax levying authority is at stake," they say.

The Conservatives require a 6.9% general election swing to secure a Commons
majority so the June 4 results will be studied closely, with some areas closely
matching parliamentary constituencies.

Places such as Carlisle, where Labour has a notional majority of 13%, Hyndburn
(14%) and Warwickshire North (15%) will provide key indications. For the Liberal
Democrats, Cheltenham, where the party has a 1% notional majority over the
Tories, the newly created Chippenham constituency (5%) and Newton Abbot (10%)
will be closely monitored.

SUNDAY TIMES ONLINE W W For the full article on the local election outlook, go
to timesonline.co.uk/politics

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 10, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Brown set for election wipeout;
Labour leadership challenge 'almost inevitable'

BYLINE: David Smith; Isabel Oakeshott; Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words


GORDON BROWN, battered by revelations over ministerial expenses and a series of
embarrassing climbdowns, is heading for a humiliating third place in next
month's local elections.

An analysis for The Sunday Times by Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher, the
election experts, shows Labour is trailing the Liberal Democrats as well as the
Tories as it heads into the June 4 elections in 34 English local authorities.

They predict Labour will lose all four of the councils it controls and half the
500 seats it is defending. A separate YouGov poll shows Labour will get barely
more than a fifth of the vote in European parliament elections on the same day.
This is worse than five years ago, when Tony Blair was at the height of his
unpopularity over the Iraq war.

Among those certain to vote in the Euro elections, Labour polls 22%, 15 points
behind the Tories and four points Jonathan Oliver ahead of the Liberal
Democrats.

But smaller parties such as UKIP and the BNP are expected to gain ground during
the campaign.

In terms of voting strength, the YouGov poll of more than 2,200 people puts the
Tories on 43%, up two on last month, with Labour down seven on 27% and the
Liberal Democrats up two on 18%. The Tory lead is up by nine to 16 points in the
past month.

Another poll, for The Mail on Sunday, puts Labour on 23%, 22 points behind the
Tories.

The prime minister suffered a new blow this weekend as a top Labour official,
who had played a key role in Brown's elevation to No 10, labelled him a
"disaster".

Peter Watt, former general secretary of the party, said: "At the moment the
government appears to have absolutely no direction." In an interview with The
Sunday Times, Watt lifts the lid on the prime minister's behaviour behind closed
doors, accusing him and Harriet Harman, his deputy, of sacrificing colleagues
for political gain.

"Publicly, Gordon talks about values and his moral compass, but actually the way
he conducts himself behind the scenes is anything but that - it's brutal," Watt
said.

He accused Brown of demonstrating "appalling political instincts" at critical
moments in his premiership and failing to take responsibility for his own
mistakes.

"This is Gordon's politics: when things go wrong, you find someone to blame and
you blame them hard. That's what he does. The last 10 years is littered with
people who've been cast asunder," he said. Brown is expected to carry out a
reshuffle immediately after the polls to repair his authority. Among ministers
forecast to be demoted or axed are Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, and Hazel
Blears, communities secretary. Senior aides have warned Brown that if Labour
comes third in the elections next month, a challenge to his leadership is almost
inevitable.

Party whips believe an "unholy alliance" has been created of left-wing rebels
and Blairite former ministers. One whip said: "There are strong signs that they
are talking to each other about what they should do after June 4." Up to 120
Labour MPs - half of the backbench party - are expected to sign a letter this
weekcalling for Brown to reconsider plans to part-privatise the Royal Mail.

The petition, to be signed by members from all wings of the party, will be one
of the biggest acts of rebellion since Labour came to power. Brown is expected
to make an emergency statement to the parliamentary Labour party in an attempt
to persuade MPs that he has a coherent plan for the party's recovery. A total of
72 Labour MPs would have to call publicly for Brown to quit in order to trigger
a leadership contest. Brown's aides worry that if the "solid centre" of the
party begin to fear for their seats at the general election, support for a
contest could snowball. Alan Johnson, the health secretary, remains the
favourite to succeed as a "stop the rot" candidate.

Labour was embroiled in the row over parliamentary expenses yesterday, with MPs
who have been exploiting expenses for home refurbishments, gardening costs and
"fripperies" facing calls for their £24,000-ayear allowance to be taxed. Andy
Burnham, the culture secretary, has confirmed this weekend that he had claimed
more than £32,000 in one year without paying a penny in tax. The allowance
included most of a windfall payment from a landlord that parliamentary
authorities allowed Burnham to use for moving expenses. Under Inland Revenue
rules, expenses are taxed unless they are "wholly, exclusively and necessarily"
incurred in the course of employment.

MPs, however, voted themselves a special tax break in the Income Tax Act 2003,
which means they are exempted. Sir Alistair Graham, former chairman of the
committee on standards in public life, said: "There is no reason now why the
normal rules shouldn't apply to MPs. The sheer scale of what has been taking
place overwhelms you. Nobody's got clean hands.

" The TaxPayers' Alliance is due to submit a dossier of complaints about MPs'
expenses to John Lyon, the parliamentary commissioner for standards. Among the
claims it wants scrutinised are those of Burnham, James Purnell, Hazel Blears
and Margaret Moran. All WW Continued from page 1 say they comply with the rules.
The detailed receipts show how MPs switch their "second" home allowance from
London to their constituency, enabling them to carry out extensive renovations
or buy household goods for both properties.

John Hutton, the defence secretary, switched his main home to a rented cottage
in his constituency so he could fund a £730,000 London house on expenses. He had
previously said his main home was in London.

He claimed £66,707 against the new London property over three years, almost the
maximumamount possible. Moran, a backbench Labour MP, came under scrutiny
yesterday after allegedly spending £22,500 of taxpayers' money treating dry rot
at the coastal property she had designated her second home - even though it is
100 miles from her Luton South constituency. Yesterday she said the allegations
were inaccurate and potentially actionable. PM's authority 'destroyed', page 4

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 10, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Brown set for election wipeout;
Brown faces wipeout at ballot box

BYLINE: David Smith; Isabel Oakeshott; Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words


GORDON BROWN, battered by revelations over ministerial expenses and a series of
embarrassing climbdowns, is heading for a humiliating third place in next
month's local elections.

An analysis for The Sunday Times by Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher, the
election experts, shows Labour is trailing the Liberal Democrats as well as the
Tories as it heads into the June 4 elections in 34 English local authorities.

They predict Labour will lose all four of the councils it controls and half the
500 seats it is defending. A separate YouGov poll shows Labour will get barely
more than a fifth of the vote in European parliament elections on the same day.
This is worse than five years ago, when Tony Blair was at the height of his
unpopularity over the Iraq war.

Among those certain to vote in the Euro elections, Labour polls 22%, 15 points
behind the Tories and four points ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But smaller
parties such as UKIP and the BNP are expected to gain ground during the
campaign.

In terms of voting strength, the YouGov poll of more than 2,200 people puts the
Tories on 43%, up two on last month, with Labour down seven on 27% and the
Liberal Democrats up two on 18%. The Tory lead is up by nine to 16 points in the
past month.

Another poll, for The Mail on Sunday, puts Labour on 23%, 22 points behind the
Tories.

The prime minister suffered a new blow this weekend as a top Labour official,
who had played a key role in Brown's elevation to No 10, labelled him a
"disaster".

Peter Watt, former general secretary of the party, said: "At the moment the
government appears to have absolutely no direction." In an interview with The
Sunday Times, Watt lifts the lid on the prime minister's behaviour behind closed
doors, accusing him and Harriet Harman, his deputy, of sacrificing colleagues
for political gain.

"Publicly, Gordon talks about values and his moral compass, but actually the way
he conducts himself behind the scenes is anything but that - it's brutal," Watt
said.

He accused Brown of demonstrating "appalling political instincts" at critical
moments in his premiership and failing to take responsibility for his own
mistakes.

"This is Gordon's politics: when things go wrong, you find someone to blame and
you blame them hard. That's what he does. The last 10 years is littered with
people who've been cast asunder," he said.

Brown is expected to carry out a reshuffle immediately after the polls to repair
his authority. Among ministers forecast to be demoted or axed are Jacqui Smith,
the home secretary, and Hazel Blears, communities secretary.

Senior aides have warned Brown that if Labour comes third in the elections next
month, a challenge to his leadership is almost inevitable. Party whips believe
an "unholy alliance" has been created of left-wing rebels and Blairite former
ministers.

One whip said: "There are strong signs that they are talking to each other about
what they should do after June 4." Up to 120 Labour MPs - half of the backbench
party - are expected to sign a letter this weekcalling for Brown to reconsider
plans to part-privatise the Royal Mail.

The petition, to be signed by members from all wings of the party, will be one
of the biggest acts of rebellion since Labour came to power. Brown is expected
to make an emergency statement to the parliamentary Labour party in an attempt
to persuade MPs that he has a coherent plan for the party's recovery.

A total of 72 Labour MPs would have to call publicly for Brown to quit in order
to trigger a leadership contest. Brown's aides worry that if the "solid centre"
of the party begin to fear for their seats at the general election, support for
a contest could snowball.

Alan Johnson, the health secretary, remains the favourite to succeed as a "stop
the rot" candidate. Labour was embroiled in the row over parliamentary expenses
yesterday, with MPs who have been exploiting expenses for home refurbishments,
gardening costs and "fripperies" facing calls for their £24,000-ayear allowance
to be taxed.

Andy Burnham, the culture secretary, has confirmed this weekend that he had
claimed more than £32,000 in one year without paying a pe nny in tax. The
allowance included most of a windfall payment from a landlord that parliamentary
authorities allowed Burnham to use for moving expenses.

Under Inland Revenue rules, expenses are taxed unless they are "wholly,
exclusively and necessarily" incurred in the course of employment. MPs, however,
voted themselves a special tax break in the Income Tax Act 2003, which means
they are exempted.

The TaxPayers' Alliance is due to submit a dossier of complaints about MPs'
expenses to John Lyon, the parliamentary commissioner for standards. Among the
claims it wants scrutinised are those of Burnham, James Purnell, Hazel Blears
and Margaret Moran. All say they comply with the rules.

PM's authority 'destroyed', page 4

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU elections vital to nation's future

SECTION: LETTERS; 44

LENGTH: 114  words


IN A few short weeks, there will be an election, even more important than the
one that will rid us of this appalling administration. I refer to the EU
elections.

Britain has only a lamentable eight per cent of the MEPs in Brussels and
Strasbourg and so we must ensure that the ones we have actually support us.

The Conservatives are anticipated to do well - not because they have anything to
offer but just because they are not Labour. But none of the main parties wants
to talk about this issue despite the power of Brussels being vital to our
interests.

If people were actually to think about what is really happening, there would be
a UKIP landslide.

June Warner, Kirk Deighton, N Yorks

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 10, 2009

A look in the EU's unbalanced books

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 806  words


EVIDENCE MOUNTS on all sides as to how Britain's standing in the world is in sad
decline. After 10 years as the world's fourth largest economy, we have now
slipped to sixth place behind China and France. In Wednesday's Daily Telegraph,
under the heading "The UK will be missed on the world stage'', Irwin Stelzer
wrote about the failure of our military missions to Iraq and Afghanistan, and
lamented Britain's retreat from an effective role alongside our American
partners. On the same day, Max Hastings reported a similar story from America
itself, where he was shocked to find how far we have lost the respect earned in
the days of Mrs Thatcher.

Another, perhaps less obvious, reason why Britain has lost respect is reflected
in a shocking book, published tomorrow, entitled Brussels Laid Bare, by the EU's
sacked former chief accountant, Marta Andreasen. The outline of her story has
long been familiar. In 2002, as the first qualified accountant to be given the
job, she was appointed to sort out the EU's accounts, which for six years
running had not been cleared by the EU's Court of Auditors due to a maze of
"irregularities''.

In 1999 the entire European Commission had resigned when, thanks not least to a
Commission whistleblower, Paul van Buitinen, every kind of fraud and corruption
had come to light. Miss Andreasen - who was born to a Danish father, lived in
Spain and had worked for various multinational organisations - began her new job
as something of a "European'' idealist, hoping she could help to put things
right.

Not long after she arrived, she was invited to meet the Court of Auditors, which
welcomed her and expressed the hope that she could impose order on chaos. But,
she was warned, she would meet stiff opposition, not least from the powerful
director who for years had been in charge of the EU budget. (Her book changes
officials' names for legal reasons, but he is identifiable without much
difficulty.)

As soon as Miss Andreasen began looking at the EU's accounting system, she saw
that it was a shambles. Between the 2000 and 2001 accounts, euro200 million had
gone missing without explanation. She was told these were "loans'' that had been
"written off'. Senior officials were authorised to hand out huge sums without
any proper records being kept. Accounts were kept on spreadsheets that could be
accessed and changed without leaving any trace of who had made the changes.

The system was open to fraud in every direction. Almost immediately, however,
Miss Andreasen found herself being pressured to sign off the 2001 accounts
which, as she said, would be a criminal offence, since this was the
responsibility of her predecessor and she had been given none of the information
needed to know whether or not they were correct.

It soon became obvious that her attempts to introduce changes were being blocked
at every turn. The German budget commissioner, although initially sympathetic,
was hopelessly out of her depth. Thus began a horror story only too familiar
from the experience of previous whistleblowers, from van Buitinen to Bernard
Connolly, author of The Rotten Heart of Europe - except that Miss Andreasen
insists she was not a "whistleblower'' but merely trying to do her job.

In her book she recounts how her telephone was bugged, and how she was followed.
In desperation she obtained an interview with Neil Kinnock, the Commission
Vice-President charged with fighting fraud. She describes how he treated her
with contempt and told her she was to be suspended. She was consigned to a tiny
office without a telephone. He then wrote to say she would face disciplinary
proceedings, Finally she was dismissed.

Thus her life descended into a five-year nightmare, as she faced one tribunal or
court after another, all finding her wholly to blame. At one point she had to
appear, like a naughty child, before all the commissioners, only one of whom
appeared to be listening to her.

Her book reads like a chilling cross between two Kafka novels, The Trial and The
Castle. Yet this is the organisation to which our politicians have surrendered
much of the power to decide how Britain is governed, and to which British
taxpayers now hand over some  pounds 13 billion every year with no control over
how it is spent.

On June 4, a minority of us will cast our votes in elections for the European
Parliament. By a surreal twist, the Danish-Spanish-Argentinian Miss Andreasen
will be standing in the East "Euro-region'' as lead candidate for the UK
Independence Party. But she knows that whoever is elected will make no
difference to the nature of a "mega-state'' which, as she puts it, is
irredeemably corrupt and unreformable.

The tragedy is that our own politicians are so emasculated, reduced to
expenses-fiddling zombies by this strange form of government we now live under,
that most neither know nor care.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

National: News: BNPs attempt to gain first European seat aided by man linked to
ANC leaders killer: Far-right activist arrested over Hanis murder in 1993:
Anti-fascist group warns of BNP mask of moderation

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words


A far-right activist linked to the murderer of the South African Communist party
and ANC leader Chris Hani in 1993 is playing an influential role in the British
National party in the run-up to next month's European election campaign.

Arthur Kemp runs the party's merchandising arm, Excalibur, and was pictured this
week at the BNP's election headquarters in mid-Wales helping to prepare
thousands of campaign leaflets.

Hani was one of South Africa's most popular and skilled black politicians and
his killing was an attempt to derail the transition from apartheid to democracy.
Kemp, the author of March of the Titans: A History of the White Race, was one of
a number of people arrested in connection with the murder. He was released
without charge but information drawn from a list of names he produced was found
at the home of anti-Communist activist Janusz Walus, who was one of two men
convicted of the shooting.

At the subsequent trial, at which he appeared as a prosecution witness, Kemp
admitted producing a list of names but denied having knowingly supplied a
"hitlist". The list had Nelson Mandela's name at the top; Hani's was third.

Kemp's book, which is popular with far-right activists around the world,
questions the number of Jews killed in the second world war.

Kemp worked for the white supremacist South African Conservative party before
moving to the UK in 1996. He joined the BNP and now helps edit the party's
website and is widely seen as one of leader Nick Griffin's key policy advisers.

Last night a spokesman for the BNP said Kemp was a "valued member" of the party
but said he did not have an official role in the election campaign. Kemp said he
was "just an ordinary volunteer".

Kemp's involvement emerged as an internal memo revealed a growing anxiety within
the BNP that "careless extremism" could spoil the party's chances of securing
its first MEP in June's elections.

The document, sent to activists last weekend, states: "Any adverse publicity
arising from careless remarks reported in the press could wreck our chances of
election so please make all your members aware that they should observe the
utmost caution in this respect."

However the BNP's attempts to brand itself as a mainstream party have been
hampered by the actions of its two most senior figures in the last two weeks:

* Griffin was widely criticised for defending a BNP leaflet that said black and
Asian Britons "do not exist" and should be referred to as "racial foreigners".
He added that a "bloodless genocide" was taking place in the UK.

* Deputy leader Simon Darby described the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu, as
an "ambitious African" and said Sentamu's fellow Ugandans threw spears at their
enemies.

* Photographs emerged of Griffin alongside former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard
Stephen "Don" Black - one of the extremists banned from the UK by the home
secretary, Jacqui Smith.

Last night Darby said he and Griffin stood by their statements even if they
risked offending some people. "In a way I am happy to be distanced from other
politicians when you see what is happening with MPs' expenses . . . we are not
in it for the money," he said.

A spokesman for Searchlight, the anti-fascist organisation which uncovered the
picture of Kemp at the BNP's election headquarters, said the party's attempt to
portray itself as a mainstream organisation was "unravelling". "The plan was to
present a moderate facade until polling day, but even before the campaign has
formally been launched their mask of moderation has been torn away," he said.

Some analysts believe the BNP could win up to six seats in the European
parliament although it appears the party is planning to concentrate most of its
efforts on two regions - the north-west, where Griffin is standing, and the west
Midlands.

In the north-west Griffin needs 9% of the vote to be guaranteed a seat but could
be elected with 7.5%. In 2004 the BNP polled 6.4% but has since broadened its
campaign beyond its traditional heartlands of east Lancashire and Greater
Manchester to include areas such as Cumbria and Merseyside. In the west Midlands
it needs around 11.5% of the vote to be guaranteed an MEP - 4% more than it
achieved in 2004. Analysts believe the collapse of support for the UK
Independence party and growing disillusionment with the three main parties,
especially Labour, may play into their hands.

In the last 12 months senior figures in the BNP, hopeful of a breakthrough and a
windfall of up to £2m in funding, have attended a series of meetings with
extremist groups across Europe in an attempt to prepare the way for a far right
coalition.

Last month Darby was pictured arriving at a conference in Milan flanked by men
giving a one-armed fascist salute. Roberto Fiore, leader of Forza Nuova, a
rightwing Italian party, who once said he was happy to be described as a
neo-fascist, was present, as was French National Front MEP and convicted
Holocaust denier Bruno Gollnisch. Darby spoke of the "looming and growing
problem of the colonisation of our country (UK) by Islamists".

In October Griffin addressed a crowd of far-right activists in Prague including
hundreds of members of the Czech National party which has produced a study
titled The Final Solution of the Gypsy Question. He also spoke at a nationalist
rally in Hun gary telling the crowd: "We are all in the same struggle against
the same enemies. Now we all stand together in a long march for freedom and the
next step on that long march to freedom is June 2009."

Last night Darby said the BNP did not agree with everyone it shared a platform
with, adding the party was trying to promote a "sensible nationalism" to stop
the UK becoming an "Islamic Marxist" state.

However, Labour MP Jon Cruddas said the BNP was attempting to use the elections
to build "a pan-European network of hate".

"They know for every MEP they get elected they will secure hundreds of thousands
of pounds of taxpayers' money to subsidise the campaigns of prejudice, extremism
and division."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

National: Simon Hoggart's week: Mixed up about Maggie

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words


This week we celebrate, for want of a better word, 30 years since Margaret
Thatcher became prime minister. It's a commonplace to say that she divided the
nation between those who loved her and those who detested her.

I don't think that's entirely true. Obviously there are many people who shudder
when her name is mentioned, and will buy tickets to dance on her grave. And
there are those who revere her as the saviour of her people. But I suspect there
are more of us who are somewhere in between, who have strong but mixed feelings.

These thoughts came to mind when I went to the opening of the Maggie, Maggie,
Maggie exhibition at the wonderful Cartoon Museum, just a few yards south of the
British Museum. The 100 drawings were chosen by Ken Baker, one of her closest
ministers and a huge cartoon fan, and Steve Bell, a huge cartoonist who is not a
Thatcher fan. Among the guests were Norman Tebbit, who has recently had second
thoughts about what the government did to the mining communities, which is a bit
like John the Baptist suddenly getting nagging doubts about the Messiah.

So if even Norman is ever so slightly ambiguous, what about everyone else? Are
we allowed to say, yes, much of what she did was necessary, the country was
indeed running into the sand, but at the same time she left us all this
unfettered greed that has dumped us in a worse situation than ever we faced in
1979?

Certainly Steve Bell had few doubts. After Ken Baker spoke, he got up and began:
"Thank you, Ken, you oily scumbag." But he said it in a kindly way. Then he
admitted that for him, the Thatcher years had been very happy - his children
were born, and there was unlimited material. "But the wrong side kept winning!"
Whatever your feelings, doubt, certainty or somewhere in between, it's well
worth seeing the exhibition, which continues until 26 July.

There's a really jolly pop song on the radio at the moment. It's called Not
Fair, by the talented soubrette Lily Allen, and it's in the Top Ten - whatever
that means these days. It is, as far as I know, the first song to make the
charts that is precisely and explicitly about premature ejaculation.

It describes those problems described in the magazine ads in which a loving
couple in bed gaze into each other's eyes because, thanks to the clinic or the
pills, he's managed to last longer than 10 seconds. Or the condition described
in the emails that the Guardian thoughtfully filters out of my account.

The theme of the song is that the singer has this wonderful boyfriend, who cares
for her, rings her up all the time, and is endlessly considerate - except in
bed, where it is all over in a trice, or as she puts it, "you make that funny
noise". It's a really catchy number, with country fiddles bursting in. The whole
thing races to its conclusion, rather like the boyfriend.

I mention this only to contemplate cultural change. In the past the BBC tended
to ban songs about successful sexual liaisons, such as Let's Spend the Night
Together, and Je T'Aime, Moi Non Plus. Now we're cheerfully allowed songs about
sex that goes horribly wrong.

Yesterday's Today programme interview with Harriet Harman on the subject of MPs'
expenses was truly awful. For me the low spot came when she said desperately:
"We do not have the level of corruption that obtains in many other countries."
Oh, great. We're better than Pakistan, Zimbabwe and Italy. Thanks, Hattie. We
used to be famous for being better than pretty well anyone else, but apparently
we're somewhere in the middle now. Soon afterwards Nigel Farrage, the leader of
Ukip, was asked about one of his MEPs who was thrown out for extensive
swindling. He was able to say cheerily: "Unlike the other parties, when people
fiddle their expenses we get rid of them!" So he had made his displeasing party
look more honest and open than Labour - truly awful.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

Thank goodness the Tories are pure with their expense claims

LENGTH: 1026 words

ABSTRACT

We can now all breathe a sigh of relief and elect a wholesome Conservative
government led by David Cameron

FULL TEXT

Day two of the Great MPs' Expenses Scandal and if thecontinuing account is to be
trusted we can all breathe a sigh of relief. Britain can throw Labour out next
summer for well-documented abuses of the system, let the  and elect a wholesome
Conservative government led by David Cameron.

There may not be a place in it for Greg Barker (cries of "who?") because the
Tory MP for Bexhill and Battle since 2001, a junior energy spokesman, is today
accused - on page six - of making  "flipping" his second home allowance at the
expense of the taxpayer.

Is Barker the sacrificial Conservative lamb Labour has been warning them about -
yesterday - or have the Telegraph's sleuths only got as far as B for Barker in
their labour-intensive examination of supermarket and estate agents bills? No
other Tory MP has yet been given the kind of roasting provided for errant Labour
ministers this grim past 36 hours.

Wealthy Barbara Follett's £25,000 worth of "security patrols" (in Soho for
heaven's sake!); Phil Woolas's women's clothing and nappies (£7.99, which he
denies claiming); Phil Hope's genius in cramming £37,000 worth of new furniture
into a very small London flat; today's Telegraph disclosures against small fry
ministers - they fried the big fry yesterday - make more uncomfortable reading
for the political class.

On ITN's News at Ten last night, political editor Tom Bradby - not a man to whom
I have previously looked for moral guidance - and his team were given carte
blanche to rage against the politicians. "If these allegations are true (note
that if) there are going to have to be resignations," he thundered. It is the
first time I have seen a political reporter call for resignations. Gosh.

But have all Tories (except Mr Barker) followed the advice of their saintly
colleague Peter Bottomley who once told me an MP should never do anything they
would be ashamed to see on the front page of their local newspaper?

Possibly, though they rarely listen to Peter's hard-won wisdom. It would be
genuinely good news for the system if they had done and were as wholesome as he
is. But we do not yet know. We are having to trust the Telegraph.

In obtaining the stolen/purchased/bootleg CD of expenses - by fair means or foul
- the paper has gained an advantage over the rest of us in accessing material
supposedly being processed by the House of Commons fees office, the people who
sign off on members exes.

If the Tel is pleading the public interest ( it may have a good case) it is
surely important for that defence that it treats all the political parties
fairly. Otherwise it might be treated as a case of handling stolen goods which
were due to be published shortly anyway.

The Met police is on the case, but precedent suggests that investigation will go
nowhere. It is almost as feeble for MPs to say this is primarily a police matter
as it is to claim that everything they did was within the rules of the expenses
system. Ministers should have taken a leaf out of  and admit "We Boobed".

After all, we all know the difference between what is legal and what is right. I
prefer to recall a conversation with a decent Labour backbencher - never given a
job by either Blair or Brown - who replaced the 20 year old TV set in his London
flat with a modest new one, Panasonic as I recall. He felt it right only to
charge the taxpayer half the cost because some would be for private use.

Are there many such MPs? I hope so, the vast majority in fact. We know that Tory
MP Philip Hollobone has the lowest expense claim (he employs no staff) and
Labour's Dennis Skinner the second lowest (he has never accepted a cup of tea
from a hack: I've tried). I am confident that plenty of ministers and
backbenchers - on all sides - are pretty fastidious. I bumped into a ministerial
wife in the supermarket yesterday who said the same. Her husband is scrupulous,
as even his political foes in his constituency now admit.

Allegra Stratton The trouble is, so far as I can tell, the Telegraph isn't
telling us about the good guys. Its list of errant cabinet ministers - 14 in all
- includes three current non-cabinet members (Prescott, Beckett and Caroline
Flint).

Does that mean that half the Brown cabinet is so far beyond reproach that not
even the Torygraph can concoct a flimsy case against them, as it did against
several named yesterday, Brown probably included (says me). The Telegraph
website - "MPs expenses investigated in depth" - is frankly not conducive to
confidence.

Curiously - or significantly - they have not turned any attention on the fees
office or on Andrew Walker - the director general of resources at Westminster
whose team signed off on some pretty louche claims. He was one obvious target of
wave upon wave of blowhard columnists in today's Mail.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/may/09/labour-expenses-fairness-spe
nding-cuts is relatively mild.

Tomorrow's Sunday Telegraph may resolve the dilemma by reaching beyond Labour's
ranks and reporting the contents of the snaffled CDs. Let us hope so.

Pessimists are already warning that Labour defections and a low turnout by
Disgusted of Dagenham in the June 4 European elections will also see BNP MEPs
elected, potentially in significant numbers. It could happen, I agree.

But reading the Guardian's account today of how a  in South Africa may help
prevent excessive folly in that direction. Ukip's expenses performance at
Strasbourg is a suitable reminder that things could be worse than they are.

One diehard Labour optimist yesterday emailed me a council byelection result
from Hartlepool where a 26% turnout in Rossmere ward delivered a comfy Labour
win with the Tory candidate in fourth place. My chum says that's a timely
reminder that David Cameron does not have it in the bag.

But I couldn't help noticing that the BNP came second and Ukip third.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 9, 2009 Saturday 5:45 PM GMT

Euro elections 2009: In southern England, Labour faces obliteration

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 534 words


What are the odds of being pestered by a Euro-candidate between now and polling
day? If every candidate were to spend every day from now to 4 June doing nothing
except going from door to door, I'd reckon them at slightly less than one in
200. In practice, under this ludicrous Blair-imposed regional list system,
almost all the candidates know in advance whether they're going to be elected,
so the chances are lower still.

Then again, the stangest things happen when you're canvassing. I am now spending
every day touring my vast Home Countries region, driving from village to flush
May village, crumpling leaflets through stubborn letter-boxes, scrunching up
long gravel drives (these last tend, for some reason, to have LibDems at the end
of them). Last night I was in Tonbridge. This morning I was among the gorgeous,
gnarled, jettied houses of Kent/Sussex border, with a wonderful lunch at the
Victorian home of my predecessor, a kindly and generous man called Ben
Patterson. Then a spot of leafleting in Maidstone with the glamorous Helen
Grant, who hopes to succeed Ann Widdecombe. This evening I'll be with Surrey
Conservative Future in Guildford; tomorrow the Isle of Wight. Then Portsmouth,
Winchester, Havant, Cranbrook, Dartford, Angmering, Worthing, Sevenoaks,
Southampton, Dover, Reading, Woking, Aylesbury, Woodstock, Oxford. And something
absolutely bizarre is happening: I keep bumping into people I know.

What are the odds of canvassing the same person twice? Less than a million to
one, I'd say, given the size of my patch. But last night, in a single Tonbridge
street, it happened in three successive houses. First, a lady whom I'd canvassed
during a county council election eight years ago (Conservative). Then a man who
had heard me speak at Tonbridge School three years ago (Conservative). Then the
former borough councillor for that ward, with whom I had once gone leafletting
(Conservative, obviously). In Maidstone just now, I met a woman who had visited
the European Parliament on a visit I sponsored (she was a Tory at the time, but
is UKIP now).

There's a pattern here. No one is planning to vote Labour. I mean, someone
somewhere in the South East probably is; but I have yet to meet him. Westminster
pundits have convinced each other that the revelations of MPs' sleaze will
depreciate turnout to the disbenefit of all three main parties. Maybe they're
right. All I can say is that that's not how it feels on the doorstep. Yes,
turnout will be low, but turnout is always low at European elections. In 1999 I
got in on a participation rate of 24 per cent; more people voted the following
day in the eviction round of the then series of Big Brother. I'd be surprised if
it isn't higher this time. And people seem disposed to snatch at whatever weapon
is handiest to belabour Labour. It may be that, in some Northern cities, the
LibDems will be the beneficiaries; perhaps, in parts of Scotland, the Nats. But
in most of the UK, it's David Cameron. If my canvassing is remotely
representative, Labour in the South East is not just way behind the Tories, but
behind UKIP and the LibDems, struggling with the minority parties. And still the
party is too cowardly to replace its leader.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Corrections and clarifications

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 323 words


*An article about Adam Carroll, A1 Grand Prix championship driver, published
online under the heading Adam Carroll aiming for formula one after A1GP success,
5 May, failed to acknowledge that the quotes from Carroll used in the piece came
from an interview by Will Buxton published in the 4 May issue of GPWeek, an
online magazine. We apologise for this lapse.

*We said that the UK Independence party received a £5m donation from Stuart
Wheeler, a former Conservative donor. It was £100,000 (Eric Pickles predicts big
Tory gains, 6 May, guardian.co.uk).

*A panel explaining DNA detection, 12 March, page 11, said that the human genome
comprised about 3m DNA letters. That should have been 3bn.

* More errors inflicted on broadcasting luminaries. A column wrongly knighted
Michael Grade (The spectre of leaderless British media, 4 May, page 4, Media).
And on the same page, an item in Media Monkey's Diary about the marriage of Greg
Dyke and Sue Howes reduced their progeny to three from the correct four.

*Due to erroneous captioning in the book from which it was reproduced, an
Eyewitness photograph was said to show a geisha in a subway in Tokyo. It was
taken in Kyoto (6 May, page 20).

*Homophone corner: As chief whip for Labour, Nick Brown believes, we said, that
"MPs who don't tow the party line should not be allowed on select committees"
(Mr Nice Guy asked to deliver the undeliverable,

6 May, page 6).

It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant errors as soon as
possible. Please quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the office
of the readers' editor by telephoning +44 (0)20 3353 4736 between 11am and 5pm
UK time Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.

Send mail to The Readers' Editor, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Fax
+44 (0)20 3353 3188.

Email: reader@guardian.co.uk

The Guardian's editorial code incorporates the editors' code overseen by the
Press Complaints Commission: see www.pcc.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Britain - Left party declares full slate of candidates

LENGTH: 814 words


Britain's newest political party No2EU - Yes to Democracy has declared its full
slate of candidates for the Euro elections on June 4.

The party is running in every region of Britain, with the exception of Northern
Ireland, and said on Thursday it will be the only national challenge from the
left to the traditional political elite.

The party is opposed to the Lisbon Treaty and the threat to democracy it says
the EU poses.

It is also pro-workers' rights and public services and firmly opposed to the
racist poison of the BNP.

Among the candidates on the slate are RMT general secretary Bob Crow, leading
human rights lawyer John Hendy QC and former Coventry MP Dave Nellist.

Mr Crow explained that No2EU is a grassroots movement which reaches into
workplaces and local communities across Britain.

"We now expect the media to respect our organisation and to give us the access
to coverage that we expect and deserve as a national political party.

"The turn out on June 4 is a crucial issue for the future of politics in this
country and it does nobody any favours to stifle debate on the whole
undemocratic nature of the EU and its institutions.

"We want a proper debate, from the left, which challenges the hate agenda of the
BNP and the narrow-mindedness of UKIP and which flies the banner of workers'
rights and public ownership."

NO2EU-Yes to Democracy candidate list:

LONDON - Eight candidates

Bob Crow - RMT general secretary

John Hendy QC - Leading human rights lawyer

Professor Mary Davis - Lecturer in trade union studies

Kevin Nolan - Visteon convener, Enfield site

Syed Islam - Social worker and Bangladeshi community activist

Onay Kasab - Greenwich UNISON branch secretary

John Rowe - Health worker and former election agent for Peter Shore MP

Nick Wrack - Socialist barrister

WEST MIDLANDS - Six candidates

David John Nellist - Socialist Party Councillor and Coventry MP from 1983 to
1992

Dyal Singh Bagri - President, Indian Workers Association (pc)

Malcolm Gribbin - Retired teacher, school governor

Jo Stevenson - Youth CND treasurer

Peter MacLaren - Alliance for Green Socialism

Andy Chaffer - Birmingham trades council

EAST MIDLANDS - Five candidates

John McEwan - Lindsey Oil Refinery worker

Avtar Sadiq - Unity for Peace and Socialism party

Jean Thorpe - UNISON NEC member

Shangara Singh Gahonia - Unity for Peace and Socialism party

Laurence Platt - UNITE branch secretary (pc)

WALES - Four candidates

Rob Griffiths - Communist Party of Britain general secretary

Rob Williams - Unite convener of the Linemar plant in Swansea

Laura Picand - UNISON Wales staff member

Trevor Jones - Deeside trades council secretary

NORTH WEST - Eight candidates

Roger Bannister - Unison NEC member

Les Skarrot - FBU executive committee

Craig Johnston - RMT executive

Alec MacFadden - President of Merseyside trades council

Steve Radford - Liberal Party councillor

Lynn Worthington - Community and healthcare campaigner

John Metcalfe - Former deputy Labour leader of Carlisle council

Harry Smith - One of the 47 surcharged Liverpool Labour councillors

SCOTLAND - Six candidates

John Foster - Scottish Campaign Against Euro Federalism secretary

Tommy Sheridan - Solidarity Co-Convenor

Leah Ganley - Student at Dundee University

Stuart Hyslop - Retired seafarer RMT

Ajit Singh Uppal - Indian Workers Association (pc)

Tom Morrison - Secretary Clydebank TUC

YORKSHIRE & HUMBERSIDE - Six MEPs

Keith Gibson - Lindsey Oil Refinery worker

Celia Foote - Alliance for Green Socialism

Councillor Jackie Grunsell - Save Huddersfield NHS councillor

Peter March - RMT regional secretary

Mike Davies - Alliance for Green Socialism secretary

Juliet Marie Boddington - Alliance for Green Socialism activist

SOUTH EAST - Ten candidates

Professor Dave Hill - Former East Sussex Labour Group leader

Garry Hassell - RMT executive committee

Kevin Hayes - Ford worker

Owen Morris - Construction worker and supporter of Lindsey and Olympic site
protests

Gawain Little - Teacher and CND National Council member

Robert Wilkinson - NUT Wokingham and District Secretary

Jacqui Berry - Medway trades council president

Nick Wright - Graphic designer and teacher

Nick Chaffey - Youth worker

Sarah Wrack - Student Sussex University

EASTERN - Seven candidates

Brian Denny - Journalist and democracy campaigner

Frank Jepson - Visteon factory convener, Basildon

Steve Glennon - Shop steward at GSK in Ware, Hertfordshire

Phil Katz - Author and designer

Eleanor Donne - UNISON steward (pc), local government worker

Pete Relph - Environmental campaigner

Ron Rodwell - Former CWU activist RMT staff rep

NORTH EAST - Three candidates

Martin Levy - Newcastle trades council president

Hannah Walter - UNISON shop steward (pc)

Peter Pinkney - RMT activist

SOUTH WEST - Six candidates

Alex Gordon - RMT executive committee

Roger Davey - Health worker

Rachel Lynch - NUT activist (pc)

Nick Quirk - RMT executive committee

John Chambers - Retired T&G union official

Paul Dyer - Barnstaple trades council secretary.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 7, 2009 Thursday

National: Tories looking for big gains in June elections

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 391 words


Eric Pickles, the Conservative party chairman, yesterday predicted that his
party would win more than 40% of the vote in next month's county council
elections and take more than 100 Labour seats.

But he also suggested that it would be hard, because of the electoral system,
for the Tories to push beyond 36% of the vote in the European parliamentary
elections on the same day.

The elections are the final democratic test before the general election next
year, and if Labour comes third in either the local or European elections in
terms of share of the vote, fresh efforts will be made to dislodge Gordon Brown
from the leadership.

Pickles, campaigning in the West Country, cheerfully reported that Brown's
personality and style of government were a "massive issue" on the doorstep.

He said: "There is strong disillusionment among Labour supporters, with quite
significant switchers. The big issue seems to be the size of debt, and the way
Brown has mortgaged the future. There is a lot of deep anger about that."

Labour is privately predicting it will lose control of all four of the county
councils it still holds - including Lancashire, which Pickles said would be like
the Tories losing Buckinghamshire - and fears it will come third in the popular
vote.

In keeping his prediction of seat gains in the local elections as low as 100,
Pickles argued that the Tories were fighting relatively safe Labour seats with a
majority on average of around 700, requiring big swings. Privately the Tories
say their most optimistic forecast is taking a third of the Labour seats.

Overall 27 county councils are being fought on 4 June, along with a smattering
of unitary councils, with the Tories defending 1,083 seats and Labour 445. The
Liberal Democrats are expected to make small gains.

Pickles expects that a combination of better than expected performances from the
smaller parties and the European electoral system will keep the Tory vote down
below 36%, still the highest percentage share for a single party since such
elections have taken place.

In 2004 the Lib Dems were forced into a humiliating fourth place with 14.9%
after a Eurosceptic surge took the UK Independence party to an unexpected 16.1%.
The Tories polled 26.7%. The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, has surprised his
colleagues by saying he will resign if his troubled party does not take 10% or
more.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 7, 2009 Thursday

Feature - The 'con' in Conservative

BYLINE: Rupert Read

LENGTH: 1003 words


What will be the story of the 2009 Euro elections? Clearly, there will be a
massive anti-Labour reaction, as this government's power and influence ebbs
away, with no sense of public regret. But who will benefit politically?

Will it be the BNP? Entirely possible.

Will it be the Green Party? I hope so, if Morning Star readers have anything to
do with it. Apart from the Green Party's push for huge numbers of jobs in the
new green industries, the Greens are making a determined push to keep the BNP
out Or will it be something altogether more mundane? Will the British people
signal that they intend to return the Conservatives to power next year by
handing the Tories a landslide victory next month?

Our Labour government is mired in sleaze. It has set up an economic catastrophe
which is overlaid on a slower-burning environmental catastrophe. So it could
seem absurd that voters might bring back a party which left office in 1997 mired
in even more sleaze and having presided over various economic disasters overlaid
on a slower-burning environmental catastrophe only concealed by the fortuitous
temporary relief afforded by the "dash to gas."

But it is entirely possible, thanks to Britain's narrowly framed
business-dominated neoliberal politics and our see-saw first-past-the-post
electoral system.

Now is therefore a good moment to assess the Cameronian "revolution." I will
attempt to do so from my point of view as a Green.

To begin with, does anyone seriously believe that, if David Cameron's
Conservatives win a majority in the general election, they will bring about a
change of direction in respect of Heathrow expansion, new coal-burning power
stations such as Kingsnorth, new nuclear power stations, slow progress on
renewables or emissions targets?

In the cases of Heathrow and Kingsnorth, I predict that the Tories will say that
things have gone too far for them to be able to turn back - they will wring
their hands and say that Labour has committed them to paths which they would in
principle like not to go down. In the case of nuclear, the Tories have already
signalled their desire to forge ahead with new stations.

The Tory Party is, according to Conservative MP Tim Yeo, "interested" in
contraction and convergence - a globally just means of delivering emissions
targets favoured by the Green Party. But I predict that the Tories in power
would do precisely zilch to try to make it a reality.

In the case of renewables, a few symbolic mega-projects would doubtless be put
in place, but would there be any change of the underlying status quo? It is
Conservative councillors up and down the country who tend to stand most
dogmatically in the way of allowing wind-energy projects going ahead.

A significant number of Tory MPs and MEPs are in fact climate-change deniers.
Only UKIP is "ahead" of them in this regard.

And now this question - does anyone seriously believe that the financial crisis
wouldn't have been just as bad if for the last decade we had been under the
"leadership" of free-market-mad Tories such as Cameron and George Osborne?

The deregulation of the economy and of big finance has utterly failed. This is
what has produced the financial and climate meltdowns. But deregulation is even
more the touchstone of Cameron and Osborne than of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

Our economic stability and our very survival as a viable civilisation - wouldn't
that be a good idea? - now depend upon serious and large-scale government
intervention. This is no time for Britain to give its allegiance to a cheap PR
man wedded to laissez-faire economics who saved his political skin a couple of
years back only by promising a swingeing cut in inheritance tax for the very
rich.

All Cameron is, I suggest, is a more right-wing and less plausible version of
Blair. He is even more of a phoney than Blair. At least Blair somehow, madly,
seemed to believe his own lies. You may say he was sincerely insincere. With
Cameron, totemic episodes such as the chauffeur seen driving behind him as he
cycled to work point up only that his "new Conservatives" underline the outright
"con" in Conservatism.

This ought to be a time of political meltdown. The system that has governed our
thinking for at least a generation is literally bankrupt. And we have probably
one chance, one window, to assure our survival as a civilisation.

A proportional representation election such as that on June 4 offers the chance
of course for a sudden radical change in voters' preferences.

If our democracy works, if the people rule at least to some degree, then they -
we - will throw all the deregulatory rascals out and switch to a radical
alternative.

Perhaps this will produce the puerile triumph of scapegoating and of a vicious
fascism. Or perhaps it will yield the triumph of hope, of a last chance for
humanity. Of, to begin with, an economic stabilisation package that, unlike
Brown's, might actually work because, as we move toward the harnessing of free
endlessly renewable energy, we will naturally generate massive savings over time
to pay off the national debt. This is our Green New Deal proposal.

So what will the story of the 2009 Euro elections be? As voters give Labour the
kicking it deserves, will they do so via the vehicle of the racist BNP? Via the
positive vision and plan for getting us out of this mess of the Green Party?

Or will voters provide the mundane ending that Cameron's clever PR machine
desires - a case on June 4 of the traditional knee-jerk response of British
voters to a "Labour" government that they don't like - rather than the profound
political paradigm shift that we as a people and as a species desperately need.

My argument is this. That we do not need to accept the looking-glass logic that
hands the laurel to another neoliberal. What I have tried to do here is to set
out just how plain mad, how utterly forgetful, it would be for Britain to
rebound away from the total failure of new Labour to embrace Cameron's sub-Blair
act.

But over to you, reader/writer/activist/voter, to make the decision.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Comment and debate: Diary: The election looms and votes will be priceless. The
reward for getting them: £10,000

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 652 words


We needed a new way to do politics in this country and, by God, Sir Paul Judge -
the millionaire former Conservative donor - is going to provide it. His jury
team candidates will "shake up the cosy consensus in UK politics", he says, but
the effort begins in Europe. Prepare for change. And thanks to a leak to the
magazine PR Week, we can see what change will look like - for Sir Paul
(pictured) seems set to appoint a PR firm whose duties will include tasks that
to many seem integral to the political process: "being the first point of
contact for candidates; signing up and motivating volunteers to leaflet on
behalf of our candidates; helping to co-ordinate campaigning days; other
campaigning ideas that will help increase our share of the vote". For every
candidate the PR firm gets elected, it will receive a bonus of £10,000. Other
parties seem convinced of the need for more grassroots engagement but, who
knows, Sir Paul may be on to something. More money in politics. More spin.
Sounds brill.

We see a record of the post-cabinet briefing for lobby correspondents, and it is
hard to erase the thought that the government is no longer taken seriously. "Did
the prime minister have full confidence in Ms Blears?" the official spokesman
was asked. "Yes," he replied. "Did the prime minister give her a 'hair-dryer'?"
asked the questioner. "Is that a question about her hair?" asked the spokesman.
"Well, obviously he did not help her with her hair," replied the journalist.
"Apparently, it is a Downing Street phrase for a rollicking." There was, the
assembled were told, a cabinet discussion about the British economy in the light
of European predictions, which make the chan cellor's own figures seem
optimistic. "Did they just throw their arms helplessly in the air?" asked a
correspondent. The thrill is gone. Light is fading.

But still there is excitement about that explosive critique by Hazel Blears -
with its plea for ordinary Labour activists to connect with ordinary folk by
deploying their "meta- narratives". Chief among the topics being discussed: who
actually wrote it. Few believe that Hazel - salt of Salford and all that - would
have resorted to tiresome wonk-speak, and she is said to be surprised at the
fuss the article caused. Might Paul Richards, her adviser, who has wonk-speak as
a second language, have brought his experience to bear? The man who wrote Be
Your Own Spin Doctor may well have a pithy turn of phrase. If it's you, Paul,
take the credit.

Widespread concern about the foreign doctor who arrived to work as GP cover
without benefit of sleep or knowhow and caused the death of a patient. Some
question anew the government's system for GP cover. Others question the
competence of those who employed the hapless medic. And then there is Dr Stuart
Russell, who emails my colleague James Meikle. His bugbear is identity.
"According to your Grauniad piece, Dr Daniel Ubani is a German," he says. "Is
that really true - he doesn't look like a German to me. Are you completely mad?"
"He is indeed German," replies Meikle. "He has a German passport." But Dr
Russell remains unconvinced. "A German passport doesn't make him a German," he
says. "Race matters - he is African. How would ethnic Germans react to the idea
that being German is merely about having a piece of paper? What about their
history and culture - Beethoven, Bach etc? Does that count for nothing?" And
this all seems very puzzling until one realises that for many years we knew Dr
Stuart Russell as Phil Edwards, the once hyperactive press spokesman for Nick
Griffin's racist BNP. That understood, it all makes sense.

Finally, pity the editors at Sky News who had to choose between Gordon unveiling
Labour's new education initiative and Joanna Lumley, Queen of the Gurkhas,
sprinkling her stardust on to the home affairs select committee. Joanna won. For
non-stop Gordon, there's always YouTube.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2009 Friday



CORRECTION: *We said that the UK Independence party received a £5m donation from
Stuart Wheeler, a former Conservative donor. It was £100,000 (Eric Pickles
predicts big Tory gains, 6 May, guardian.co.uk).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2009 Tuesday

Tory attacks on Brussels 'aid the BNP'

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511  words


A FORMER Labour minister has accused the Conservatives of preparing the ground
for a rise in support for the British National Party.

Both parties said they were concerned that the far-Right party could make a
breakthrough in next month's European elections. Denis MacShane, the Labour MP
and former Europe Minister, said: "It was the Greens in 1989, Ukip [UK
Independence Party] in 2004, so perhaps in 2009 it will be the BNP. The Tories
have prepared the ground with their constant xenophobic attacks on Europe.''

But the comment drew an angry response from the Conservatives. Sayeeda Warsi,
the shadow minister for community cohesion, said: "It's much easier to blame
somebody else than address the failings

and shortcomings of the current Government, which means some voters feel that a
fringe party is an attractive alternative.''

Gordon Brown is already resigned to a drubbing, but he also knows that a rise in
support for the BNP in some Labour heartlands will make its showing even worse.

Senior shadow cabinet ministers are also concerned that the BNP could reduce
David Cameron's chances of a good performance on June 4.

One senior Conservative MP said they refused to talk publicly about the threat
because it gave the BNP the publicity it craved, but he added: "We are clear
that the BNP does represent a problem at the European elections. It is the

poll when the minority parties benefit.

"Ukip has shown how, because of the proportional system, the lesser parties can
land seats. We would never talk the BNP up, but the reality is that the current
climate seems to be allowing them to make some headway.''

Yesterday, Harriet Harman, the Labour deputy leader, also voiced her concern.
She said it was vital that turn-out was

not low so that the minority parties, and in particular the BNP, would not
prosper by apathy among voters. "It will absolutely be business as usual in the
Cabinet with the additional issue, which is

that we have got, in four weeks' time, very important elections and if people
don't turn out to vote there is a real prospect that the British National Party,
with the racism and division that they represent, could benefit if there is a
low turn-out,'' she said.

Labour is under threat

from the BNP in London, the North West, and Yorkshire and the Humber.

The far-Right party could, under the proportional system in which parties field
a "list'' of candidates in each region, win at least three seats; it could also
win more than 10 per cent of the vote, according to some commentators.

The BNP will hope that it can win fourth place behind the three main parties in
areas such as the North West.

Five years ago, the region returned three Labour and Tory MEPs, two Liberal
Democrats and one from Ukip. The region will elect eight MEPs this time. Under
the proportional system the first seat goes to the party with the highest number
of votes in total, and the party gives it to the candidate at the top of their
list.

The remaining seats are awarded by dividing the votes for each party by the
number of seats they have already won, plus one.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2009 Tuesday

Ukip Party struggling to repeat past success

BYLINE: Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230  words


Five years ago the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) was a political
force to be reckoned with but is now rife with infighting and struggling to
repeat its success.

Ukip had12 MEPs in the last European elections and a 16 per cent share of the
vote, making it Britain's third largest party in Brussels. But most political
pundits think that was a high-water mark and it has already lost three MEPs
since 2004.

Within days of the election, it was disclosed that one, Ashley Mote, was being
investigated for benefit fraud. He was suspended from the party and eventually
imprisoned for nine months.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter, made a run for the party
leadership and when that failed he was pushed out. He formed a splinter party
called Veritas.

A third MEP, Tom Wise, was suspended after being investigated by EU

anti-fraud watchdogs.

The knives are out for the party leader, Nigel Farage, who has increased the
party's national profile but has been accused of using it as his personal
fiefdom. Robin Page, the former presenter of BBC's One Man and His Dog,
announced his resignation from the party in March, claiming that his former
colleagues were "in the process of imploding''.

Mr Farage gave himself little wriggle room by promising to resign if Ukip
returned fewer than 10 MEPs next month. "It will be time for someone else to do
it,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 5, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Never before has a party suffered a total wipe-out;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 690 words


They are meant to be about the future of Europe and the delivery of vital local
services such as schools and social care. But in truth it will be the future of
Gordon Brown that will be the main question hanging over the European and local
elections on 4 June.

If Labour does badly, the recently revived muttering and perhaps even the
plotting about the Prime Minister's future can be expected to thicken. The
expectation that David Cameron is on course for victory in a general election
next year will grow. If, on the other hand, Labour avoids disaster Mr Brown will
be safe and on the Labour benches hope will be rekindled that Mr Cameron could
yet be denied.

At first glance the European elections would seem to be the more severe of the
two electoral tests for Mr Brown. The whole country will get the chance to vote
in a straightforward proportional representation election. Labour's success or
failure will be unambiguously recorded for all to see.

In contrast local elections are only taking place in shire - and thus mostly
Tory - England. Only 27 county and seven unitary councils (including five new
ones) are at stake. Any shortcomings in Labour's performance would seem capable
of being dismissed on the grounds that little of national significance can be
read into such unrepresentative results.

In truth, Mr Brown may well have less to fear in the European elections than he
does in the local contests. This is for one simple reason. When the country last
voted in European elections in 2004 Labour performed abysmally. It won less than
23 per cent of the nationwide vote, not least because the party was beginning to
pay for the unpopularity of the Iraq war. Yet just 12 months later Tony Blair
still went on to win a historic third term. Even the most recent opinion polls
still suggest the party stands at 27 per cent in Westminster voting intentions.
Getting 23 per cent or thereabouts ought not be too difficult. And so long as
the result is not significantly worse than 2004, Labour's spin machine will be
able to argue it can recover in 2010 just as it did in 2005.

Mind you, European elections have the habit of throwing up the unexpected. In
1989 the Greens famously won as much as 15 per cent of the vote, largely at the
expense of the Liberal Democrats. Five years ago, Ukip that took the country by
storm, securing as much as 16 per cent of the vote, with the Conservatives (and
again the Liberal Democrats) losing out.

Labour's fear is that this time it will be the BNP that makes a sudden
breakthrough and Labour will take the hit. Nick Griffin's party does best in
working-class areas with high ethnic-minority populations in the North of
England and the Midlands - in other words in traditional Labour territory.

But if past precedent is kind to Mr Brown in the European elections, it could be
a serious source of embarrassment to him in the local elections. For this
particular round of elections was last contested on general election day 2005.

True, people did not vote in those local elections in exactly the same way they
did in the general election - the Liberal Democrats fared better and Labour and
the Conservatives rather worse.

But even so, the results will provide a direct measure of how much Labour has
fallen from favour since its last election victory.

Moreover, the few scraps of power Labour does have in shire England are all
vulnerable. The party is defending just four councils: Derbyshire, Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire. All four will be lost if the swing against
Labour reflects that currently registered by the opinion polls. And never before
has a party suffered a complete wipe-out on local election day.

Those with long memories will recall the last and only time that Labour suffered
defeat in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire. It was in 1977 during the darkest days
of the last Labour government under Jim Callaghan, a government whose demise
heralded 18 years of Tory rule. So perhaps Labour MPs would regard losing those
two counties again as the clearest sign of all that Mr Brown is leading them to
serious defeat.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 5, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Labour prepares for a hammering at the ballot box;
Party in-fighting and recession will spell disaster at local and European polls

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 894 words


The Labour Party is bracing itself for a "bloody nose" in next month's European
Parliament and local authority elections, senior figures admitted yesterday.

Labour officials said the party is on a hiding to nothing because of a "double
whammy" - the electoral arithmetic and an inevitable anti-government protest
vote in the recession.

A third problem has been added to the mix in recent days - a surprise outbreak
of Labour in-fighting and speculation about whether Gordon Brown might be ousted
as leader before the general election. Brown allies were braced for a "wobble"
when the 4 June results are known but were not ready for one four weeks before
polling day.

They are frustrated by the panic in the ranks of Labour backbenchers, who last
week forced the Prime Minister to water down his plans to reform MPs' expenses
and then inflicted his first Commons defeat, over residence rights for Gurkha
veterans.

Things went from bad to worse at the weekend. Attempts to blame "headless
chickens" in the Parliamentary Labour Party were undermined when the cabinet
minister Hazel Blears broke ranks, accusing the Government of "lamentable"
communications and mocking Mr Brown's YouTube video on MPs' expenses. The
fall-out from her newspaper article filled the news vacuum over what Downing
Street had hoped would be a quiet Bank Holiday weekend. The fear among Brown
allies is that the early outbreak of "summer madness" may damage Labour's
election prospects even further, as voters turn away from a Government that
seems more interested in fighting its internal battles than the recession.

One Labour source told The Independent yesterday: "These will be the most
difficult elections for us since 1993. They will be exceptionally challenging."

It will be the first time since 1993 that the English county councils,
traditionally a Tory stronghold, have held elections without a general election
taking place on the same day. The 1997, 2001 and 2005 county elections saw the
turnout increased by a general election, boosting Labour's prospects. Without
that cushion, Labour is bound to suffer heavy losses. All parties lower
expectations ahead of mid-term elections, but even the other parties admit
Labour is bound to struggle this time.

Although Labour will not predict the results, it would be perfectly possible for
the party to finish an embarrassing third behind the Tories and Liberal
Democrats in the town hall poll. In last year's local elections, the Tories won
44 per cent of the votes, the Liberal Democrats 25 per cent and Labour 24 per
cent.

Labour faces a similarly high hurdle in the Euro elections. In 2004, it came
second behind the Tories but an experiment with all-postal voting in some
regions boosted the overall turnout from 24 per cent in 1999 to 38 per cent.

The big unknown in the Euro poll will be what happens to the "Ukip vote". The UK
Independence Party, which campaigns for Britain to withdraw from the European
Union, was the surprise package five years ago, winning 16 per cent of the votes
and beating the Liberal Democrats into fourth place.

Its performance was enhanced by one of its candidates, the TV presenter and
former Labour MP Robert Kilroy-Silk. He has since departed and the party's
fortunes appear to have waned. But it cannot be discounted since it is bound to
do better in a European than a general election.

The fourth of June will also be a test for David Cameron, who will want to see
signs that his party is winning support and not just profiting from Labour's
unpopularity. Shadow Cabinet members have been told to spend three days a week
campaigning.

"We will campaign on schools, hospitals and the economy," said Eric Pickles, the
Tory chairman. He warned that Labour plans to attack "Tory cuts" in local
services would backfire, since a public spending squeeze was now planned by the
Government.

For the Liberal Democrats, the elections offer a rare media platform. They will
be keen to limit any Tory advance in the South-west, a key battleground between
the two opposition parties at the general election, while making some inroads in
Labour's Northern heartlands.

"We will all lose out if we don't take Europe seriously"

Leading article, page 26 Michael Brown, page 27

Party platforms on Europe

Labour

Defends stance of "pro-EU realism". Argues that there is no need for referendum
on EU's Treaty of Lisbon as it will simply streamline decision-making. Will warn
that Tories would leave Britain isolated.

Conservatives

Want referendum on Lisbon Treaty and to pull Britain out of EU's social chapter
of workers' rights. Will withdraw MEPs from mainstream European People's Party
to form more sceptical centre-right breakaway.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Pro-Europe, but keen to stress they are also pro-reform in Europe. Acknowledge
need for close co-operation with EU partners in recession and issues such as
climate change.

UKIP

Wants Britain to leave the EU, and campaigns for an in/out referendum. Performs
best in Euro elections, winning 16 per cent of vote last time.

Libertas eu

Pan-European party for "new, democratic open EU" making debut in a UK election.
Wants Lisbon Treaty referendum.

BNP

Hoping to land first seats in nationwide election. Anti-immigration party
campaigning on "British jobs for British workers".

Green Party

Hoping to halt BNP advance in North-west. Campaigning for "green jobs" push to
lead Britain out of recession.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 4, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

'Best way to beat the BNP is to vote Green';
Respect candidate urges public to back rival at European elections

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 534 words


An anti-racism campaigner has emerged as the candidate who could stop the
British National Party chairman Nick Griffin winning a seat in the European
Parliament next month.

Peter Cranie has been chosen by the Green Party to stand in the North-west,
where the BNP's hopes of winning its first seats in a nationwide election are
highest. Respect, the left-wing party headed by the Bethnal Green and Bow MP
George Galloway, has stood aside in the region and is urging its supporters to
vote Green to stop the BNP.

The Greens, who already have two MEPs, are making a major push in the
North-west. They are convinced that that the proportional representation (PR)
system used in the 4 June elections makes voting Green the best way of denying
the BNP victory and the significant boost in funds from the Strasbourg
parliament that would follow.

Under the PR formula, all votes received in a region are added up and the first
seat is given to the party with the highest number. The votes for that party are
then divided by the number of seats it has already won in the region plus one
(for example, if a party has won one seat, its remaining votes would be divided
by two). The party which then has the highest number of votes gets the next
seat. This process continues until all the seats are allocated.

At the last European elections five years ago, Labour and the Tories each won
three of the North-west's nine seats, the Liberal Democrats two and the UK
Independence Party (Ukip) one.

Ukip's fortunes have declined since and election experts believe the crucial
battle affecting the BNP's chances will be the one for fourth place behind the
three main parties. The region will elect eight MEPs this time.

Mr Cranie, a 36-year-old father of one, has been preparing for next month's
fight with the BNP for three years. A leading member of the Merseyside Coalition
Against Racism and Fascism, he stood down from his job as a lecturer so he could
devote more time to the European elections. He now works for the parenting
support charity Parentline Plus.

The three main parties insist that the voting system is such a "lottery" that
supporting them is the best way to beat the BNP. But the Greens are appealing
over the heads of the three parties in the hope of encouraging tactical anti-BNP
voting. They are also working hard to mobilise the ethnic minority vote.

Mr Cranie told The Independent yesterday that he could not "guarantee" that a
vote for the Greens would prevent the BNP from winning a seat, but insisted that
it offered the best hope of achieving that. In the 2004 European elections, the
BNP won 6.38 per cent of the votes in the North-west and the Greens 5.55 per
cent, so the Greens claim they are the most likely party to overtake the
extreme-right group.

Mr Cranie, the Green Party's national spokesman on children, schools and
families, has jobs as his main campaign theme. "A Green vote is a vote for
jobs," he said. Accusing the BNP of "dog whistle politics", Mr Cranie added: "In
an environment of economic fear and insecurity, the seeds are being sown -
racism and intolerance - by a party that in its constitution bars any person
because of the colour of their skin and the home of their ancestors."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday

The left unites - but on the wrong issue

LENGTH: 804 words

ABSTRACT

John Palmer: No2EU, a leftwing party set up with the laudable aim of stymying
the BNP and Ukip, will only reinforce the anti-European mindset

FULL TEXT

Many on the left of British politics, who have reacted over the past decade with
anger and disgust at the performance of "New Labour" governments under both Tony
Blair and Gordon Brown, have long hoped for a half-way credible leftwing
alternative that could mobilise serious electoral and activist support. Sadly a
series of would-be left alternatives have come and gone leaving little but
bitterness and division behind them: think of the ,  and the split in the .

It is true that the Scottish National party, Plaid Cymru and - on some occasions
at least - the Liberal Democrats have, from time to time found themselves well
to the left of New Labour on economic, social and foreign policy issues. But
their commitment to radical and fundamental economic and social change seems at
best tactical rather than a matter of conviction and strategy. By contrast, new
leftwing parties have emerged in ,  and other European Union countries that can
now count attract substantial electoral support - forcing middle of the road
Social Democratic parties to look over their left as well as their right
shoulders. Indeed recent polls have put these parties ahead of the Social
Democrats in France and Denmark.

The failure in Britain to build a mass left party has complex roots - not least
of which is the paralysis generated by an all too common sectarian mindset
towards party- and movement-building on the British far left. Neither Brown nor
David Cameron need lose sleep over a threat from the left unless and until it
displays a capacity to unite a very broad range of forces including the left and
civil libertarian currents in the Labour party, the Green party, radical
Liberals and a wide range of activists in the trade union, voluntary and NGO
sectors - as well as the usual suspects on the diminishing circles of the far
left.

Given the poisoned history of leftist sectarianism in Britain, the emergence of
, a new movement set up to fight the European parliament election this month
that has drawn support from almost all the furthest left factions and parties,
might be thought worthy of a modest celebration. The fact that this project was
initiated by a trade union - the  - is also notable given the past record of the
trade unions to subordinate their political ambitions to support for the Labour
party.

Alas the comrades have chosen to unite on a platform that mixes highly desirable
economic and social reforms with a toxic hostility to the European Union and its
institutions. Set up with the laudable aim of diverting voters away from the BNP
and Ukip, No2EU's initiative based on its self-avowed, militant defence of
"national sovereignty" will only reinforce the anti-European mindset, an outcome
the Tory right and far right will readily exploit.

Only this week we have seen where arguments of national sovereignty deployed by
New Labour ministers in ministerial meetings in Brussels have led to a block on
proposals to end the . Never mind that the proposals were supported by the trade
unions across the European Union (and by a majority of Labour members of the
European parliament), the No2EU strategy prioritising national sovereignty would
have put it on the same side as Brown's government and some of the most
reactionary employers' organisations in Britain.

In its visceral opposition to the , No2EU propaganda reflects much of the
ignorant stance adopted by Tory and Ukip eurosceptics. it shares the mistaken
belief that the unelected commission can pass EU laws binding on all member
states. It equally ignores the provisions of the Lisbon treaty that would lead
to an elected - not appointed - commission president and to far greater powers
for the elected European parliament. Moreover it is above all the influence of
MEPs that will ultimately redress the reactionary bias of recent labour market
laws passed by governments in the council of ministers and upheld by the
European parliament.

Perhaps the silliest aspect of No2EU is the commitment that - if elected - none
of its candidates will take their places in the European parliament. It has not,
moreover, explicitly rejected acceptance of European parliament salaries for its
abstentionist MEPs. This strategy is rejected by all the other EU left parties.
No2EU seems not to understand that if any of its candidates are elected and do
not take their places, they will be replaced by the candidates with the next
highest votes in the euro-constituency affected. If this were to work to the
benefit of Tories, Ukip or the BNP how will they explain this to voters?

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

IT'S AB- FAB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 100 words


WHAT a week! Another brilliant feast of entertainment from SunTalk ... The Sun
on air.

Cabinet minister Hazel Blears, UKIP leader Nigel Farage, our amazing scoop
interview with fast food mum Leanne Salt, sensational Page 3 Girls Peta and
Ruth. And then, to crown our Gurkha campaign we had the incomparable Joanna
Lumley and two Gurkha VC heroes in the studio. It was a triumph for the
fledgling SunTalk and our amazing host Jon Gaunt.

We are back live on Tuesday but all the previous week's shows are available to
listen again or download as podcasts at thesun.co.uk.

The future's bright ... it's SunTalk..

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

SunTalk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 100 words


WHAT a week! Another brilliant feast of entertainment from SunTalk ... The Sun
on air.

Cabinet minister Hazel Blears, UKIP leader Nigel Farage, our amazing scoop
interview with fast food mum Leanne Salt, sensational Page 3 Girls Peta and
Ruth. And then, to crown our Gurkha campaign we had the incomparable Joanna
Lumley and two Gurkha VC heroes in the studio. It was a triumph for the
fledgling SunTalk and our amazing host Jon Gaunt.

We are back live on Tuesday but all the previous week's shows are available to
listen again or download as podcasts at thesun.co.uk.

The future's bright ... it's SunTalk..

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 291 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 2, 2009 Saturday 5:57 PM GMT

Could Labour come fourth on 4 June?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 333 words


The campaign proper has begun, and I am canvassing from garden to scented garden
in Wokingham with some delightful Conservative Future dudes. As far as affecting
the result goes, such activity is, to a single approximation, valueless. One of
the small but irritating ways in which Tony Blair aligned our constitutional
processes with Europe's was his replacement of single-member constituencies with
monstrous Euro-regions. If I wanted to canvass everyone in my South East England
division, it would take me 35,000 years.

Not that the voters see it that way, of course. "Why haven't you ever been round
before?" asks one elderly chap. I do my best to explain that it's a very large
patch, covering 84 Westminster constituencies, and that I can't get round
everyone personally. This seems to satisfy him so, pushing my luck, I ask
whether he might, you know, vote for me. "Oh, I don't know yet. You're the only
candidate I've seen. I'll have to wait for the others first."

So, if it won't alter the outcome of the election, why bother with all this
door-knocking? Two reasons. First, Kantian imperative. Second, because
canvassing a representative sample of your constituents serves as a kind of
massive rolling focus group. It tells you what people are thinking. And what
they're thinking now, at least in Berkshire, is "How do we get rid of that
morose, cack-handed, wastrel, incompetent, incontinent, gurning oaf in Downing
Street?" I know I said much the same last year. But I was right.

After the canvassing, I join three other Conservative Euro-candidates for a
public meeting in Wokingham town hall, chaired by John Redwood, perhaps the most
intellectually accomplished and principled man in the House of Commons. All of
them - Nirj Deva, Therese Coffey and Sarah Richardson - impress the audience,
which contains a large and, in the circumstances, exceptionally well-mannered
UKIP contingent. My analysis? In the Home Counties, at least, Labour is slogging
it out with the Greens for fifth place.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 291 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 1, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Democracy in Europe? No chance;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: LEADER; 11

LENGTH: 243  words


LISTENING to some of the voices coming out of Europe is truly educational. Try
this.

"If the EU itself applied for membership of the EU it would be refused. The
reason would be: no democracy."

Was that Nigel Farage of UKIP? No, it was former EU Commissioner Lord
Dahrendorf, repeated by the leader of the German FDP (Liberal) Party in the EU
Parliament. It gets worse.

"It is becoming increasingly problematical as to whether we can continue to
regard Germany as a democracy."

That was former President of Germany Dr Roman Herzog.

Or what about: "The Lisbon Treaty, Reform Treaty, or originally the
Constitutional Treaty is not designed to become just another amendment to the
establishing treaties but in the case of ratification by all member states it
becomes a viable, real constitution of a new political entity, a new European
near-federal state."

That is Michal Petrik, senior adviser to the Czech President (Brown and
Mandelson, of course, told us exactly the opposite when denying us a
referendum).

But here is Irish Foreign Minister Dick Roche after the Irish said "No" by
referendum.

"If we want to retain our position we cannot simply sit on our hands and keep
saying No means No."

Of course, whoever heard of a democratic politician abiding by the outcome of a
vote? Silly me. So Mr Roche and his colleagues are going to try to ram through a
"Yes" vote on October 10.

A huge propaganda budget is guaranteed from Brussels.

British taxpayers' money of course.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
