
                               1 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

CONSERVATIVES PLOT TO DITCH BERCOW FOR FIELD

BYLINE: BY DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 276 words


COMMONS Speaker John Bercow faces a new plot to oust him by Conservative MPs who
want to install Labour MP Frank Field instead.

Senior Tory backbenchers will try to kick the Speaker out if they win the
General Election, defying calls by David Cameron to drop the matter.

They resent the way fellow Conservative Mr Bercow was imposed on them when
Labour backbenchers voted for him this year, apparently to annoy the Tory
leadership.

Mr Bercow has antagonised them further by slapping down respected Tory MPs in
the Commons Chamber, while his wife Sally has publicly criticised Mr Cameron and
announced plans to stand as a Labour MP.

Mr Bercow is already facing an electoral challenge in his Buckingham
constituency from former UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, who has
broken the convention that Speakers are elected unopposed.

A backbench Tory ex-minister said that if Mr Bercow does hold his seat, Tory MPs
are determined to do a 'reverse Bercow' by electing Mr Field, who is unpopular
with Labour MPs for criticising the Government.

'There will be considerable support for Frank and many on our benches think he
would be a more suitable speaker and reassuring figure for the public,' one
senior Tory said.

'Electing Frank would give Labour MPs a taste of their own medicine.'

Backbench heavyweight Christopher Chope has been identified by Tory whips as a
ringleader of the plot. Former shadow home secretary David Davis is said to view
an election to oust Mr Bercow as desirable.

A former Tory minister said: 'John Bercow is going to need his Tory friends in
the months to come. He's got to be more careful about how he slaps people down
in the chamber.'

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

An EU ski holiday . . . on your taxes

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 426  words


A SKIING holiday in the Italian Alps for the children of MEPs and officials at
the European Parliament is to be heavily subsidised by the British taxpayer.

European Union officials, including MEPs, have already been criticised for
threatening legal action unless they receive a 3.7 per cent pay rise in January.

In addition, most pay only reduced "community'' rates of taxation and the latest
perk will add to controversy over the subsidised way of life enjoyed by many EU
civil servants.

The eight-day skiing trip for 80 children aged between eight and 17 is timed to
begin over the weekend of St Valentine's Day.

The euro920 ( pounds 822) cost of the holiday is to be generously subsidised by
the parliament's budget, and therefore taxpayers. Households receive different
levels of subsidy depending on their monthly income, but even those on an annual
income of more than  pounds 108,000 get a discount.

An MEP earning  pounds 86,000 a year is eligible for a subsidy of 45 per cent,
and there is reduction of up to 52 per cent for officials earning  pounds 69,620
a year. According to an internal document, an extra 10 per cent reduction
"applies to the enrolment of a second child and subsequent children''.

Mats Persson, of the think tank Open Europe, said: "It is ridiculous that, at a
time when most families across Europe have to tighten their belts, the European
Parliament thinks it is appropriate to subsidise holidays for the families of
even its most well-paid staff.

"How can MEPs claim subsidised holidays for their children when many of their
constituents' families are struggling through the recession?''

The holiday, organised by the parliament's staff committee with the educational
aim of teaching children skiing, will be spent in the Italian province of
Bergamo.

The children will enjoy full board in a three-star hotel in the picturesque
village of Spiazzi.

The trip includes "workshops'' in a "multilingual environment'' on the themes of
"the mountain, its snow, its nature''.

Four hours each day will be spent on the ski slopes and three hours on lessons,
such as an "exercice (sic) with snow dogs'' as well as "open air games'' and a
"torchlight procession''. A spokesman for the EU parliament declined to comment
on the holiday.

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip in the European Parliament, said "spending a
fortune on a skiing jolly'' would anger the public after the worst economic year
in memory. "Surely now is a time of reflection and humility, not a chance to rub
the taxpayer's nose in yet another tremendous waste of money?'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

G2: POLITICS: A peek into the future: There will almost definitely be changes at
Westminster, but what about in other areas? Our experts look ahead

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1070 words


David Cameron sunk into his favourite armchair by the fire and kicked off his
slippers. "Our first Christmas in Chequers," he murmured contentedly as he
realised that the phone hadn't disturbed the family for over an hour. Samantha
had given instructions that he be left alone if possible, just for one day, and
left alone he seemed to be. "We must be getting the hang of this prime minister
lark," David told himself as he poured another finger of the Glenmorangie, to
which Mrs Doubtfire, the Chequers housekeeper, had introduced him.

Out of the corner of one eye he could see Nancy and little Arthur tying up
Gordon, Mrs Doubtfire's spayed tabby, using ribbons from the Christmas presents.
He was a much nicer cat since they'd had him done, David thought. He closed the
eye and pondered the extraordinary year now closing.

The general election, when it finally came on

6 May, had been much as he had hoped - and feared. The other Gordon - Gordon
Brown - had found inner reserves of strength in the final months of the old
government and put up a half-decent fight, allowing him to step down with
dignity.

Labour's new leadership team, David Miliband and Jon Cruddas, were still finding
their feet. They wouldn't be much trouble to the government for a while, not
with leftwing MPs working with Ed Balls - narrowly defeated by Miliband - to
pull the party off the centre-ground.

The controversy over public spending cuts

and tax rises had been savage during the general election, but inconclusive.
Voters had wanted someone to tackle the enormous burden of debt, the product of
the banking crisis and the gaping hole that chancellor Brown had left in the
budget. But they didn't want it done too quickly, while the country limped out
of recession, or want their favourite public services cut in the process. And
they certainly didn't want to pay extra taxes themselves. Let the rich pay, they
said. But the rich had better accountants. David had always understood that,
though it was not a point easily conveyed to a democratic electorate made angry
by recession and disappointment.

In the end it was Europe, not the economy,

that had most unsettled the Tory campaign. Party strategists felt the least said
the better now that they had withdrawn their pledge of a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty. But a determined core of Eurosceptics, led by the charismatic MEP
Daniel Hannan, had refused to let go. The result was a polarised atmosphere with
accusations of bad blood all round. Cameron drove to Buckingham Palace on the
afternoon of 7 May with 342 seats to Labour's 208 and 66 for the Lib Dems, who
had held up better than expected against the Tory onslaught in the south and
taken a couple of seats in the north.

It meant an overall majority of 34, good enough (Margaret Thatcher won with 43
in 1979), but also confirmation of predictions that Cameron and George Osborne
had failed to "seal the deal" conclusively with wary voters. Still, a small
majority meant there would be fewer excessive expectations of the kind that had
burdened Tony Blair in 1997.

The big difference was in the smaller parties. Ukip had snatched Speaker
Bercow's seat in Buckingham (at least that solved the Bercow problem, David told
himself) and one other. The BNP had got lucky in Stoke, as did the Green MEP
Caroline Lucas in Brighton. In Belfast, Ian Paisley's DUP had been outflanked on
the right. It meant trouble ahead there and in Scotland, where the SNP had
notched up Commons seats - and votes - that Dave might need if his own restless
right picked a fight over Europe or tax cuts which chancellor Osborne was
reluctant to concede in the circumstances.

Everything had started well enough. Good spring weather, some credit for helping
President Obama clinch the finer points of the climate change deal which had
eluded Copenhagen. "Hey, if Blair could play footsie with Bush, I can cosy up to
Obama," Dave told himself, just as little Arthur managed to topple the vase
which had been a gift from President Hu Jintao.

But when Dubai finally defaulted big-time on its sovereign debts and was rashly
not bailed out by its UAE neighbours, the credit agencies went into the usual
collective panic and pulled the plug on Britain's triple-A credit rating. It was
a danger that George had fought to avoid.

It was no consolation that the US itself suffered a humiliating downgrade too or
that China's wilful refusal to revalue its currency and stop piling up export
earnings was now endangering the global recovery. It was increasingly clear that
Beijing no longer felt the need to listen.

So Britain had been plunged into a spending crisis like nothing since the last
IMF bail-out in 1976. It didn't help that Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF chief,
was increasingly likely to resign in 2011 in order to go home and fight Nicolas
Sarkozy (a pathetic sight since Carla Bruni - pictured right - ran off with
Johnny Hallyday) for the French presidency. It was even rumoured that Gordon
Brown, now teaching at Harvard, might get the IMF vacancy.

With hospital wards and school classrooms closing - and NHS waiting lists
creeping up again - even nice David Miliband had been making

political hay while simultaneously courting Nick Clegg with a view to jointly
offering PR voting at Westminster at the next election.

If the Eurosceptic right kept making trouble, and the low-tax crowd (many of
them the same people) kept pressing George for more cuts, that election might
not be far off, David conceded. He had already suffered a cabinet resignation;
not Dominic Grieve, the justice secretary, as his staff had predicted, but
ambitious young Jeremy Hunt at culture.

David could hear Samantha calling the children, who were hiding pieces of broken
vase under the sofa. At least England had won the World Cup under his
premiership, he told himself. Fabio Capello had been as good as his word.
Dominating Group C, the England squad got away with Wayne Rooney's winning "hand
of God" goal against Brazil in the semi-finals and beat Germany 2-1 in
Johannesburg on 11 July. Beckham's goal from the free kick, scored just after
coming on for the last 10 minutes, was the stuff of legend.

And the whole family had been there. Even

the devastating hurricane in Birmingham that brought him scurrying home had held
off until the next morning. No, they couldn't take the World Cup away from him.
But would this be their first and last Christmas in Chequers? David wasn't sure.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

John Bercow facing Tory backbench challenge

BYLINE: Allegra Strattonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 455 words

ABSTRACT

Hopes of general election win trigger internal power struggle over Labour-backed
Speaker

FULL TEXT

Tory MPs are pushing for the removal of the Speaker of the Commons, John Bercow,
should their party win the next general election, with the right of the
Conservative party beginning to mobilise for the backbencher Edward Leigh to
take over the role.

Bercow's fate is preoccupying the Tory backbenches and may come to a head in the
next month when a review of the rules governing the election of the Speaker is
published.

Conservative MPs have remained uncomfortable with Bercow since he was elected
amid much fanfare last May. Although a Tory, Bercow won the position largely
with Labour support and he has irritated MPs with his muscular style of chairing
Commons debates.

Tory MPs also feel that a decision by Bercow's wife, Sally, to criticise the
Conservative leader, David Cameron, and run as a Labour candidate in this May's
local elections has politicised his position and made it untenable.

The hostility is such that the tradition of a Speaker being elected unopposed at
a general election will be ignored this year and Ukip's former leader, Nigel
Farage, will run against Bercow. In recent weeks backbenchers have warned that
they will not stomach Bercow being left in place if the Tories win the election.

Leigh is chair of the public administration committee and president of the
rightwing Cornerstone group, and senior backbenchers believe supporting him
would placate the right of the party in the period immediately after coming to
office, when Cameron's initial steps might not allow him to make many inroads
into tax or Europe policy.

Leigh's allies believe the Cornerstone group represents between 30 and 40 MPs,
and if the Tories won with a majority of that order they would demand an
election for the role of Speaker in return for their voting bloc.

However, some believe a showdown over Bercow would look like an introspective
spat early in a new parliament that could undermine their pledge to "clean up"
politics.

It was reported in the Times that Cameron had made it clear to members in
Bercow's Buckingham constituency that any one helping Farage unseat Bercow would
be ejected from the party.

The issue is likely to break into the open when the Commons procedure committee
reports and calls for a fully contested election for the position of Speaker and
deputy speakers.

One of the committee members, Christopher Chope, the Tory MP for Christ-church,
is known to be mobilising against Bercow.

Other possible challengers could include Frank Field, the Labour MP for
Birkenhead, who is not universally popular with his own side and who would serve
as a "reverse Bercow" as the bulk of Tory MPs would support him.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Speaker likely to face challenge with new Tory intake defying Cameron

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 537 words


David Cameron has been warned that Tory backbenchers are determined to oust John
Bercow as Speaker immediately after the general election.

The Conservative leader is keen to avoid a Westminster battle in the aftermath
of victory at the polls. He and George Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, fear that
a fight over the Speaker's chair would send the wrong signal to voters promised
a "new politics".

Mr Bercow - who, despite being a Conservative, owed his victory to a
well-organised campaign by Labour MPs - has repaired relations with Mr Cameron.
The Tory leader has made clear to party members in Mr Bercow's Buckingham
constituency that he will eject anyone found helping Nigel Farage, standing for
UKIP against the Speaker at the election.

Senior Tories have told Mr Cameron, however, that they may be unable to contain
a plot to unseat Mr Bercow when the new Parliament begins. The decision of the
Speaker's wife, Sally Bercow, to run as a Labour candidate in this May's local
elections has hardened the resolve of Tories planning a challenge.

"John's in serious trouble now - opinion has turned against him," a member of Mr
Cameron's inner circle told The Times. An influential Tory backbencher agreed
that Mr Bercow was likely to face a challenge: "It partly depends on
parliamentary arithmetic but yes, John's going to need every one of his Tory
friends to survive."

Party whips have identified Christopher Chope, the MP for Christchurch, as Mr
Bercow's possible nemesis. Mr Chope is a member of the Commons Procedure
Committee, which is reviewing rules that could make a challenge to Mr Bercow
more likely.

The committee's report, scheduled for next month, is expected to call for a
fully contested election for the Speaker and his or her deputies in the next
Parliament. Possible challengers to Mr Bercow could include Frank Field, the
Labour MP for Birkenhead, and Sir Alan Haselhurst, the Conservative MP for
Saffron Walden.

The election of a new Speaker would be an early sign that new Tory MPs are
prepared to exercise independence. If Mr Cameron wins an overall majority, more
than half of his parliamentary party will be entering the Commons for the first
time. With polls indicating no more than a narrow Conservative majority, his
ability to control his backbenchers will be critical. He is therefore watching
with alarm the speculation over who will take over the chairmanship of the 1922
Committee, which is supposed to represent the interests of Tory backbenchers.

Graham Brady, who quit the front bench over Mr Cameron's policy on grammar
schools, has emerged as a strong candidate. Already a member of the 1922
executive, Mr Brady is understood to have been approached by senior figures and
is considering whether to stand in the contest to replace Sir Michael Spicer,
the current chairman, who will leave the Commons at the election.

A Conservative government would offer a £1 million prize for computer technology
that would "harness the wisdom of crowds" in policymaking, Jeremy Hunt, the
Shadow Culture Secretary, announced. Deriding it as a gimmick, Jenny Willott,
for the Lib Dems, said: "There are already a multitude of ways to communicate
with large numbers of people online."

Rosemary Righter, page 24

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: To remain Speaker, Mr Bercow "will need all his Tory friends"
STEFAN ROUSSEAU / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Speaker likely to face challenge with new Tory intake defying Cameron

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 535 words


David Cameron has been warned that Tory backbenchers are determined to oust John
Bercow as Speaker immediately after the general election. The Conservative
leader is keen to avoid a Westminster battle in the aftermath of victory at the
polls. He and George Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, fear that a fight over the
Speaker's chair would send the wrong signal to voters promised a "new politics".

Mr Bercow - who, despite being a Conservative, owed his victory to a
well-organised campaign by Labour MPs - has repaired relations with Mr Cameron.
The Tory leader has made clear to party members in Mr Bercow's Buckingham
constituency that he will eject anyone found helping Nigel Farage, standing for
UKIP against the Speaker at the election.

Senior Tories have told Mr Cameron, however, that they may be unable to contain
a plot to unseat Mr Bercow when the new Parliament begins. The decision of the
Speaker's wife, Sally Bercow, to run as a Labour candidate in this June's local
elections has hardened the resolve of Tories planning a challenge.

"John's in serious trouble now - opinion has really turned against him," a
member of Mr Cameron's inner circle told The Times. An influential Conservative
backbencher agreed that Mr Bercow was likely to face a challenge: "It partly
depends on parliamentary arithmetic but yes, John's going to need every one of
his Tory friends to survive."

Conservative whips have identified Christopher Chope, the Tory MP for
Christchurch, as Mr Bercow's possible nemesis. Mr Chope is a member of the
Commons Procedure Committee, which is reviewing rules that could make a
challenge to Mr Bercow more likely.

The committee's report, scheduled for next month, is expected to call for a
fully contested election for the Speaker and his or her deputies in the next
Parliament. Possible challengers to Mr Bercow could include Frank Field, the
Labour MP for Birkenhead, and Sir Alan Haselhurst, the Conservative Member for
Saffron Walden. Sir Alan lost out in the last Speaker's election and serves as a
deputy.

The election of a new Speaker would be an early sign that new Tory MPs are
prepared to exercise independence.

If Mr Cameron wins an overall majority, more than half of his parliamentary
party will be entering the Commons for the first time. With polls indicating no
more than a narrow Conservative majority, his ability to control his
backbenchers will be critical. He is therefore watching with alarm the
speculation over who will take over the chairmanship of the 1922 Committee,
which is supposed to represent the interests of Tory backbenchers.

Graham Brady, who quit the front bench over Mr Cameron's policy on grammar
schools, has emerged as a strong candidate. Already a member of the 1922
executive, Mr Brady is understood to have been approached by senior figures
including David Davis, the former Shadow Home Secretary, and is considering
whether to stand in the contest to replace Sir Michael Spicer, the current
chairman, who will leave the Commons at the election.

Mr Cameron has hitherto tended to bypass the 1922, regarding it as the preserve
of the old guard. A narrow Tory majority would be likely to restore the body as
a critical forum. Rosemary Righter, page 24

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: To remain Speaker, Mr Bercow "will need all his Tory friends"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

I'M A SORT OF LOONY ... A CARTHORSE WHO PUTS HIS HOOVES IN IT SOMETIMES

BYLINE: BY JAN MOIR

LENGTH: 2059 words


Interview

JAN MOIR TALKS TO BARON PEARSON OF RANNOCH, THE GLORIOUSLY ECCENTRIC AND
ACCIDENT-PRONE NEWHEAD OF UKIP

OH, LORDY, Lordy. This is not going exactly to plan, is it? Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, the newly elected leader of the UK Independence Party has had, to say
the least, a rocky few weeks in office. He had only been in the job 24 hours
when he ignited a row that still threatens to tear UKIP apart, he has been drawn
into the expenses debacle and then there is the small matter of allegations of
his involvement with a corrupt South American regime.

'Yes, yes, yes. It has been an interesting time. Not exactly a bed of roses,
no,' he says, with a cheerful nod.

On his first day in office, Lord Pearson annoyed many in the Right-wing,
anti-Europe UKIP by saying that if the Tories promised a referendum on Britain's
continued membership of the EU, he would disband his own party.

'A rather original approach to leadership,' as Glenys Kinnock dryly noted in the
House of Lords recently.

It has also come to light that Pearson has received 6100,000 over six years by
claiming that his 63.6million house in London was his second home.

'For tax purposes. That's not fibbing or anything. You know, the point I find
impossible to get over to critics is what I have actually given up to do this,'
he sighs, estimating that entering the House of Lords at Margaret Thatcher's
behest 20 years ago has impoverished him to the tune of 6200,000 a year in lost
earnings.

He says he is also losing money by selflessly leading UKIP. If he carries on
down this spiral, he'll be as poor as a church mouse.

Or perhaps not. Pearson's critics would argue that, to the contrary, all he has
done is indulge himself by funding his pet hobby; politics. And as a millionaire
insurance broker, he could well afford to take the drop anyway. 'No, I am not
rich enough,' he says.

He insists that all he owns is a London town house, a moor, a deer forest and a
12,000-acre country estate in the Highlands, plus a share portfolio worth around
62.5million and a pension fund with 'about' 6600,000 in it.

'And that's it!' he cries. 'The house is worth 61.2million. Scotland is probably
worth about 63million or 64million -- but not unless you sell it. And then what
do you do? Nothing? Lie on a beach? Oh, everyone is so anti-rich these days,
aren't they?

'Andrew Neil was going on about my wealth the other day when I was on his
television programme. I should have said: "Mr Neil, if being rich was a crime in
this country, then you would have been behind bars years ago."'

Why didn't you? 'I'm just not quick enough, I'm afraid.' How glad the
uber-modern Conservatives must be that Pearson left their party years ago!

At a time when David Cameron -- rightly or wrongly -- seems obsessed with
de-toffing his party, the last thing he wants is someone like the flamboyant
anti-Europe, pro-hunting, outspoken millionaire Malcolm Everard MacLaren
Pearson, Baron Pearson of Rannoch, rocking the careful carpentry of his
egalitarian boat.

Small of stature, ruddy of cheek but loud of opinion, Pearson is the kind of
unreconstructed Old Etonian dinosaur -- 'My nickname at Eton was Malc The
Knife,' he says, without a blush -- who must give the Tory leader nightmares. He
even says yah! when he means yes; practically a hanging offence in the modern
political world.

'At least I am who I am,' says Pearson. 'David Cameron has given up shooting and
hunting and he has resigned from White's. I mean, it is absurd.

'He is trying to show that he is something that he isn't -- or isn't something
that he is, let's put it that way. I am not going to do that. I can't be
bothered to pretend. If people don't like it, then tough,' he adds, brushing the
arm of his charcoal pinstripe suit.

Even at the age of 67 he still has his suits made by the Eton tailors Tom Brown
because: 'I am a very awkward shape; low-slung, with thick legs and rather short
arms.'

His shirts are handmade for the same reason.

'From Turnbull & Asser, I'm afraid. Whoops, there goes another headline,' he
says.

We meet in Pearson's South London home, a perfect Georgian town house in a
perfect Georgian square and practically next door to one of the original 18th
century sites of the House of Bedlam, where fashionable Londoners used to come
to stare at the inmates.

However, this is not Pearson's famously flipped home; this is the one he moved
to in 2007 to save money.

LORDPearson and his third wife, the much younger, poetically named Caroline St
Vincent Rose, 'downsized' here from his much grander, Grade II listed stucco
house in Belgravia, situated in a square where Ian Fleming and Michael Portillo
once lived.

Part of the 62 million the Pearsons made on the property deal was ploughed back
into the running of Lord Pearson's ruinously expensive Scottish estate.

'The thing about a deer forest,' he says, 'is that the income can't possibly
meet the expenditure.'

It must be appalling. 'Yah. However, it is worth it. We have a lot of people to
stay in Scotland in the summer. And a lot of them wouldn't get that sort of
holiday if they didn't come.'

Who are they, orphans? 'Important people. We refresh a lot of really good people
who come to stay,' he says. 'People we put together who wouldn't otherwise meet.
People who do really good work and of whom you would approve.'

The ground floor of the Pearsons' London home is all pale wood and white walls,
with light pouring in from a conservatory-type extension to the rear. I count at
least nine oil portraits of groupings of short-haired German pointers; a rapt
audience of adoring doggy eyes which track your every move around the room.

'That's Jock, that's Fred who ran away, that's Suchard [named after the
chocolate], that's Jock Junior, that's Fred's grandfather. ..' says Pearson,
going on to point out the hunting dogs who live on his Scottish estate in a
manner of which they would no doubt approve.

In the dining area, there is also a huge landscape of gloomy Glencoe, featuring
some Highland cattle grazing in the foreground.

'Oh, that's just Malcolm! He always likes to imagine he is in Scotland,' says
Lady Pearson.

Willowy and rather lovely, she pads around in her tight green jeans and furry
Uggs, keeping a watchful eye on proceedings. She has no intention, she says, of
being a 'political wife', but she wants to support her husband as much as she
can.

'This has been his absolute obsession for years,' she explains.

How does she think it is going so far? 'Interesting,' she says, and puts the
kettle on.

For his part, the leader of UKIP feels that he has three main problems.

'Expenses, disband and Costa Rica,' he says, cheerfully counting them off on his
fingers. 'Costa Rica, disband and expenses. Disband is my big one. I mean, did I
really say the word "disband"? I guess I must have done. Bit of a cock-up,
really.'

WHAT he actually meant, he now says, is that his party would merely stand aside
at the next General Election to avoid any potential split of the Tory vote and
to help put David Cameron's Conservatives in a more powerful position.

In return, they would get their beloved referendum, and once they got that, they
would reform themselves once more. Disband didn't come into it.

'I didn't think I was suggesting anything particularly naughty as far as the
membership was concerned. If we got the referendum, we are confident that we
would win it.

'Then we would be out of the EU and there would be a complete re-alignment of
British politics. Perhaps even the start of a new party, like the Common Sense
Party, co-operating with activists and real people in all the other parties.'

The Common Sense Party? 'Yes, something like that. That is just an idea.'

Then there is Costa Rica. Malc The Knife faces fresh questions about bribery
allegations against his company Pearson Webb Springbett -- the insurance brokers
he co-founded 45 years ago -- when it was operating in Costa Rica in the 1990s.

Pearson sold the company last year, but has been helping an official
investigation into allegations that PWS had bribed the then president of Costa
Rica while allegedly overcharging the country for its insurance premiums.

In his defence, Pearson has said his company operated by the normal South
American business practices adopted by all international insurance companies at
the time and that PWS had done nothing wrong.

'I knew my weak spots before I became leader of the party,' says Pearson, who
also courted controversy earlier this year when he invited Dutch Freedom Party
leader Geert Wilders to show the anti-Islam film Fitna before the House of
Lords.

In the end, Wilders was prevented from entering the UK on the instructions of
the then Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith. In response, Pearson accused the
Government of 'appeasing' militant Islam. Now he is cheered by other recent news
from Europe.

'God bless the Swiss. Look at what they did the other day; they knocked out the
wretched minarets. Wonderful!' he cries.

At other moments, he just sounds rather terrifyingly like the major in Fawlty
Towers and he concedes: 'I am a sort of loony. A rebel, a maverick. I was
brought up in the wilderness of Rannoch which teaches you to think for yourself.

'I spent all my school holidays there, wandering the hills and that made me an
original thinker. I think I am even cursed with a little vision. No, not a seer.
I wouldn't go as far as that.

'But as soon as I read the Treaties of Rome, I did see that this was a project
heading in the wrong direction. I saw it very, very clearly.'

Pearson was elected to office when former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who is also
a member of the European Parliament for the South-East, resigned in September to
concentrate on his efforts to become an MP at Westminster. 'He is a Derby winner
and I am a carthorse who puts his hooves in it sometimes, I'm afraid,' says
Pearson.

'Be careful what you are saying, darling,' calls his wife.

The Pearsons married in 1997, after knowing each other 'for ages'. They have no
children together, but he has three daughters; one from his first marriage to
Francesca Frua de Angeli and two from his second marriage to the Hon. Mary
Charteris.

His middle daughter has Down's syndrome and lives in a sheltered community. Over
the years, Pearson has done much campaigning and political work on behalf of
those with mental health problems.

'Being divorced twice has been very sad, but I remain on good terms with both
former wives and our children. I don't make a very good husband, obviously,
although Caroline and I are perfectly happy. I'm not all bad, though, am I?' he
wonders. 'I do a few a chores.'

Such as? 'Such as the breakfast washing-up when we are in Scotland. I cook a
bit. I make the finest cheese omelette in the land. I put the rubbish out.'

As if to emphasise his lordly domestic credentials, he has a minor fit when his
wife serves coffee in mugs.

'A mug! Haven't we got a cup and saucer for our guest?' he cries, before
absent-mindedly helping himself to one of my biscuits.

'Oh, I am not really a politician,' he

sighs. 'To be honest, I did not want to be UKIP leader, but I came to see that I
ought to try to do it.

'When I looked at the likely contenders for the leadership -- ('Darling! I said
be careful,' says Caroline) -- 'I worried that if one or two of them won it, it
would be very difficult to hold the party together because of factions and
personal divides. UKIP is not for sheep, you know, it is not for lemmings. It is
a party for individual thinkers and strong characters.'

Indeed. Three years ago, David Cameron described it as a party of fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists . . .

'A somewhat puerile statement and churlishly rude of him, I think,' he says.
'But it helped us, in a way. It helped to bring a lot of people into the party.'
It did? In many ways I can't help liking this terrifyingly accident-prone,
self-consciously eccentric aristocrat. However, the question is, will anyone
take this seer of a peer Malc The Knife, his ideas and his wealth, seriously?

'If you are wealthy, you are, apparently, rich and evil these days. My message
to everyone is that, yes, I did go to Eton, but my father died in debt. I am
where I am today because of what I made myself. So get out and do it yourself,
for goodness' sake.'

And what is he going to get up and do for the rest of the day?

'Just take the flak on my mobile,' he shrugs.

'Oh, do be careful, darling,' says Lady Pearson.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

Taxpayers' Alliance charitable arm under tax investigation

BYLINE: Robert Boothguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 687 words

ABSTRACT

Charity Commission steps up scrutiny of Tory-linked campaign group's funding
after Guardian revelation

FULL TEXT

The charitable arm of the Taxpayers' Alliance is being investigated by
regulators after the Guardian revealed the Tory-linked campaign group may have
used the charity to gain tax relief, normally reserved for good causes, on
donations for political research.

The Charity Commission has stepped up its scrutiny of the campaign group's
funding by opening a regulatory compliance case into the Politics and Economics
Research Trust. Earlier this month it emerged that, in order to benefit from
gift aid, the alliance asked private Midlands businessmen to channel funds
through the trust for research into policies which may damage their commercial
interests. Organisations may not be charitable if they have political purposes,
according to commission guidelines.

"The scope of the investigation is to address the allegations relating to the
charity's relationship with the Taxpayers' Alliance," a spokesman for the
commission said. The regulator opens such cases when "available information
indicates misconduct or mismanagement has occurred" and where trustees' actions
"may have been improper".

The investigative powers invoked by the commission cover occasions where charity
funds have been misapplied and irregular fundraising activity. Matthew Elliott,
chief executive of the Taxpayers' Alliance, denies any wrongdoing.

The investigation is a serious test of what has become one of the most high
profile campaign groups in the UK. It could lead the commission to direct the
charity to change the way it makes grants, potentially damaging the finances of
the alliance, which has developed a high profile in the media by criticising
government waste and calling for lower taxes.

It purports to represent ordinary taxpayers but its financial backers include
wealthy businessmen and some leading Conservative party donors.

Tory frontbench spokesmen including the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, and
party chairman Eric Pickles have attended alliance internal meetings, and
several policy initiatives proposed by the group have been adopted by the shadow
chancellor, George Osborne.

The charity, which used to be known as the Taxpayers' Alliance Research Trust,
made 29 grants totalling £278,520 in 2008 and Elliott denied it breached charity
guidelines.

"All the grants made by the Politics and Economics Research Trust have been for
pieces of research which have been carried out with an open mind and to the
highest possible academic level," he said. "None of the grants have gone to any
campaigning or any party political activity. We welcome the fact we now have the
opportunity with the Charity Commission to clear up this matter and show the
Politics and Economics Research Trust and the Taxpayers' Alliance have been
operating with the highest level of integrity."

John Prescott, the former deputy prime minister, said that the announcement
showed the Taxpayers' Alliance was "exploiting the taxpayer rather than
protecting their interests as they claim to do". Prescott wrote to the
commission's chairwoman, Dame Suzi Leather, demanding that she immediately
suspend the trust's charitable status.

"The purposes of the TaxPayers' Alliance - and its charitable trust - are quite
overtly political, making the Political and Economics Research Trust in clear
breach of the Charity Commission's guidelines," he said.

The charity's trustees include prominent Alliance backer, Patrick Barbour, the
founder of Reform, a free-market think tank which advocates lower taxes; John
Mills, secretary of a Labour Eurosceptic campaign and, until last month, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, the leader of the UK Independence Party. Elliott is listed
as the main contact. He said the commission advised the trustees to change the
name from the Taxpayers' Alliance Research Trust to avoid confusion.

The Taxpayers' Alliance is the latest in a series of right-leaning campaign
groups to come under the scrutiny of charity regulators. Civitas, Policy
Exchange and the Reform Research Trust were all the subject of inquiries last
year.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

HARD HATS ON, HERE COMES THE ROTTEN ELECTION

BYLINE: CRUNCH TIME BY VINCE CABLE

LENGTH: 788 words


Once the seasonal festivities are out of the way, the public will be on the
receiving end of months of sustained political bombardment over the airwaves and
through the letterbox until a General Election puts an end to it.

As someone who will be firing a lot of the ammunition, I am ready for this
battle but I am conscious that the old rules no longer apply. Voters want change
but feel the whole political system has become discredited.

The sources of frustration are several but cumulatively powerful. One is that
the expenses scandal has far from run its course. The people feel that
corruption has crept into a political system that was once the envy of the
world. And the way we pay for politics makes it worse. The taxpayer is
understandably reluctant to foot the bill for party politics, so parties depend
on rich donors.

It is truly shocking that this coming Election could well be decided by a
handful of super-rich donors ñ who are non-domiciled in the UK for tax purposes
ñ buying seats in Parliament. Our political standards are too close for comfort
to the ' rotten boroughs' of 200 years ago or to rotten regimes in Africa and
Latin America today.

Another frustration is that the two-party 'Punch and Judy' model which most of
us grew up with no longer corresponds to reality. One in three people who intend
to vote has no intention of supporting Labour or the Conservatives. About
two-thirds of these 'non-LabCons' now support my party while nationalist parties
have a strong following, especially in Scotland.

Smaller UK parties ñ UKIP and Greens ñ have no representation in the House of
Commons at all.

There is a risk in the coming Election that one party wins an overall majority
on the basis of just twofifths of the popular vote, with barely 60 per cent
turning out to vote. This would be a pyrrhic victory.

Britain needs the authority of a strong, broadly based government to tackle our
grave economic problems, not a weak government sneaking into office with a lot
of MPs but no real mandate and the support of one in four voters.

The country could, slowly, become ungovernable. That is why fundamental
political reform is not a luxury beloved of political anoraks but a necessity
for the country.

The Election will be fought on the economy and will partly be looking back: who
is to blame for the financial crisis and the recession? In all fairness the
answer is ambiguous.

Gordon Brown claimed to have saved the world, and while it is true that the
Government's response to the bank collapse 14 months ago was rapid and broadly
correct, he must be blamed for persuading himself that his own economic
brilliance 'abolished boom and bust'.

In fact the prolonged economic boom was unstable: a house built on sand. The
artificial 'bubble' in property prices and the explosion of mortgage debt; the
spending spree financed by consumer credit; the dangerous lending practices of
the banks: he ignored all these as Chancellor and dismissed as scaremongers
those of us who warned of the dangers.

The Conservatives didn't spot the dangers either. Their silence was deafening
when their friends were coining it in during the boom years and they remain far
too close to the gambling end of the City and superrich financiers.

But the electorate will want to know not just who was right about the past but
who is being clear and honest about the future. The Government tells us that the
recession is almost over and that a resumption of rapid growth is just over the
horizon. We should be so lucky.

The fact is that at the dawn of a new decade the UK has a string of deep,
interconnectedproblems which will fester and grow without action now. We have
relied too much on borrowing by families and individuals; we have a broken but
shameless banking system, dependent on the taxpayer for survival but desperate
to return to business and bonuses as usual.

We also have a severely unbalanced economy, overly dependent on an overblown
City of London. We need a serious plan to rebalance the economy towards
productive activity and investment, mobilising and harnessing a new generation
better skilled and able to tackle the demands of a knowledge-based economy.

We need to do away with the misguided notion that wealth is created by sitting
in a house watching its price go up. And once the recession recedes, we need
discipline and determination to reverse the Government's massive financial
deficit.

None of these problems is insuperable, given strong leadership and honest
government that achieves broadly based support on the back of shared values and
ideals.

The three main parties now have less than six months to mobilise that support
and save our country. Let battle commence.

Vince Cable is the Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 27, 2009

See the records tumble at next year's election epic: Unless we are to see a new
low turn-out, each party leader must galvanise not only his core supporters but
all voters

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2037 words


It is traditional at the turn of the year for commentators to gaze into their
crystal balls. And balls the forecasts of pundits often turn out to be. All the
same, I venture this prediction about the election of 2010: it will be a
record-breaker.

David Cameron ought to be looking forward to the happiest new year. His
opponents are a three-term government that has presided over a severe economic
contraction, displays little talent for fashioning its record into a narrative
the electorate might want to appreciate and lacks a persuasive, forward-looking
prospectus. In the best of recent opinion polls, Labour has narrowed the deficit
to just under 10%. It is a sign of the party's desperation that some Labour
people have grasped at this as if that were some sort of triumph. In the worst
of recent polls, they have been behind the Tories by as much as 17%. The longer
view is no more encouraging for Labour. With the exception of Gordon Brown's
brief honeymoon in the summer and early autumn of 2007, the Tories have been
ahead in the opinion polls, and usually by handsome margins, since David Cameron
became their leader.

The electoral climb facing the Conservatives is nevertheless very steep. One of
the wiser heads in the shadow cabinet recently offered me the private prediction
that their margin of victory would be "in the low tens". By this, he meant that
the Tories will win a parliamentary majority of between 10 and 30. I wouldn't
bet my house on any forecast of the precise result, but that sounds like a
highly plausible guess. Yet even to achieve that sort of modest majority, the
Conservatives will have to break a record. To win a Commons majority of just
one, the Tories must take 117 seats from other parties and not lose a single
seat themselves. This is a feat they have not pulled off since before the Second
World War. It will also require a swing to them in the election-deciding seats
the like of which they have not managed since 1945, a swing greater even than
Margaret Thatcher achieved in 1979 with the help of the winter of discontent.

This explains the jitters bubbling just below the surface of the Tories' outward
confidence about their prospects. A poll rating bobbing around 40% is not as
good as the Conservatives hoped for at this stage. Where is the missing 5% from
their poll rating which would make the Conservatives really confident of
victory? There is an unusually large proportion of voters currently declaring
themselves for the "others". That is a result of a long-term trend of
disillusionment with the political establishment and disaffection with the main
two parties. It has been intensified by the parliamentary expenses scandal and
compounded by their joint complicity in indulging the reckless excesses of the
boom years. One of the aims of the Conservatives in the new year will be to
squeeze some of those "others" into their column.

The Tories will try to take votes from the protest parties with the message that
the only way to guarantee a change of government is to vote Conservative. This
will require some pretty sophisticated positioning by David Cameron if he is to
gather in extra votes from those who currently declare themselves to be
supporters of the BNP and Ukip without repelling centrist voters.

One of the most telling questions put by pollsters is to ask people how they
would feel if they woke up the morning after election day to find that the
country had got itself another five years of Gordon Brown. The reaction to that
question is extremely negative. So the Conservatives will want to turn the
election into a binary choice. This way, they will also seek to put the squeeze
on support for the Liberal Democrats. Expect to hear the age-old Tory cry that a
"Liberal vote is wasted vote" accompanied by the claim that only David Cameron
can kick out Gordon Brown.

The Tories want to be seen as the instrument of change. But a change to what
precisely? A senior Labour figure remarked to me the other day: "In many ways,
they remind me a lot of us in 1996, but not quite as successful." I see what he
means: the Conservatives have a presentationally adept and agile leader, they
are tightly disciplined and clearly hungry for power. But they have yet to prove
that they are really prepared for what will face them in office. In terms of
winning the election, that doesn't necessarily matter.

Tony Blair was unprepared for office, but he still achieved a very big victory
in 1997. Classic opposition tactics in current circumstances would be to exploit
the unpopularity of the government, not scatter around too many hostages to
fortune about their own intentions, make reassuring but vague noises designed to
appeal to floating voters and try to sound optimistic and credible that they can
sort out the country's problems. This is precisely what Tony Blair did. David
Cameron will be encouraged to follow this strategy by those colleagues who think
the Tories scare the horses whenever they are over-specific about spending cuts
and over-gloomy with their austerity messages.

The risk of this safety-first approach lies in what will happen after an
election to a Tory government selected by default on a masked prospectus. On his
own figures, the spending reductions trailed by George Osborne only account for
about a fifth of the cuts he will have to implement to fulfil his
deficit-reduction plan. The Conservatives can win by playing it safe only to
find themselves living very dangerously in office if they lack a mandate robust
enough to cope with the protests and unpopularity that will be aroused by what
they are going to have to do.

The story that Gordon Brown would like to tell the country is that he is the
"pilot who weathered the storm", the helmsman who guided Britain through the
greatest global economic convulsion in more than half a century while his young
Tory opponents would have dashed it on the rocks. The more optimistic souls in
the cabinet cling to the hope that the 2010 election will turn out to be a
replay of 1992 with roles reversed. Against the expectations of most of the
pollsters, commentators and his own colleagues, John Major won in the teeth of a
recession because voters ultimately trusted him more with the economy than they
did his untested opponents.

That, though, was an exceptional election. John Major was a relatively fresh
figure at the top of government, which Gordon Brown is not. Neil Kinnock always
struggled, fairly or not, to project himself as a plausible candidate for Number
10, which David Cameron does not. The government was more trusted on the economy
than the opposition, which this one is not. Labour does have a story to tell
about the measures it took to prevent a bad recession slithering into a worse
depression. But it is usually a bad idea for governments to expect thanks from
the electorate, even when they have got some big calls right. Voters generally
don't do gratitude.

Peter Mandelson is right to say that this will be a "change election" and Labour
can only win by being the "party of change". That mission is very difficult
indeed when the government is in its 13th year and led by a man who has been at
its apex for all that time. Familiarity inevitably breeds disillusion and
contempt even when it is not compounded by a deep recession and serious
mistakes.

My friends in the polling industry tell me that no prime minister has been as
unpopular as Gordon Brown and gone on to win the subsequent election. Nor has
there ever been a four-term Labour government. In fact, only the Tories have won
a fourth consecutive election in more than 140 years. So two very big records
have to be smashed for Labour to win.

Against such odds, will Labour fight the election as if it truly thinks it has a
chance of winning or does it approach the contest as a damage-limitation
exercise in which it writes off marginal seats and concentrates on trying to
contain the size of the Tory victory?

A long way behind in the polls, short of money and low on morale, the temptation
for Labour is to retreat to the bunker and defend its redoubts. Peter Mandelson,
as the keeper of the New Labour flame, is trying to resist this, but there is
already evidence of Gordon Brown adopting a "core vote" strategy. One sign was
the pre-budget report, which carried on making spending promises while jacking
up taxes on Middle Britain. Jibes about David Cameron's schooling fire up Labour
activists and resonate with the Labour base, but there's little evidence that
toff-bashing appeals to centrist voters. This attack might work better if the
Conservatives were the incumbents. But they are not.

It is Gordon Brown who is more likely to seem remote and out of touch from
ordinary voters. He is the one the public see swanking around in the prime
ministerial limousine. Another Labour line is to portray the Tory leader as a
creature from the Thatcherite lagoon who is drooling in anticipation of slashing
public spending and burning the welfare state. It is true enough that Tory
policy implies a more draconian squeeze on the size of the state than anything
ever achieved by the lady. It is also true, as Tories would point out, that the
state is now much bigger than it was when she came to power. The flaw in this
line of Labour attack is that it does not run with the grain of public
perceptions of David Cameron. When floating voters look at the Tory leader, they
don't see an extreme right-winger.

The number of people who identify themselves as core Labour supporters is less
than a quarter of the electorate. A core vote strategy might secure heartland
seats - maybe even pile up more votes where Labour already has majorities - but
at the cost of writing off the centre ground where the marginals are won and
lost. A retreat to the base would signal more clearly than anything else that
Labour has given up any hope of winning the election - and probably the next one
too.

A record of sorts will also be broken if neither the Tories nor Labour manages
to secure a majority. Britain has not elected a hung parliament since February
1974. Nick Clegg has said that he will facilitate putting into power the party
with the "strongest mandate", a formula ambiguous about whether this means the
party with the largest number of votes or that with the largest number of seats,
which could very easily be different. The Lib Dem leader will be under pressure
in the new year to be more specific about what he would do in the event of a
hung parliament. Nick Clegg also needs to find more compelling messages if his
party is to maximise its own support. The Lib Dems have done well in the past
when they have offered signature policies solid enough to withstand media
scrutiny and with the salience and popularity to cut through to voters. Paddy
Ashdown's policy of putting a penny on income tax for education did this trick
for them in 1997. Charles Kennedy's opposition to the Iraq war and student
tuition fees harvested votes in 2005. Some Lib Dems were hoping that their
leader would give them a unique selling point by explicitly calling for
withdrawal from Afghanistan. Nick Clegg was tiptoeing in that direction, but now
seems to have drawn back. That, I suspect, has a lot to do with the influence of
Captain Ashdown who is against adopting a "troops out" policy.

They have recently made a muddle of their mansion tax, which had echoes of the
terrible mess they got into over local income tax at the last election. This is
not the sort of credibility-sapping mistake they can afford to repeat,
especially not if voters are to trust them to make the right calls in a hung
parliament.

On top of the specific dilemmas facing each of them, all the mainstream parties
have one challenge in common: that is to find an answer to the public alienation
from the conventional political classes as a whole. The next government, whoever
forms it, will need trust, credibility and a mandate to implement the tough
decisions that face Britain. That will be lacking if the election sets another
record, a record low for turn-out.

Captions:

Gordon and Sarah Brown savour his constituency victory in 2005. Now desperately
unpopular as prime minister such smiles may be harder to summon in 2010.
Photograph by Murdo Macleod


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 27, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A Swedish woman's home...;
The inside of this turreted castle has a few surprises, says Fred Redwood

BYLINE: Fred Redwood

SECTION: ARTS AND BOOKS;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 706 words


Ahouse says a lot about its owner. A Georgian rectory signifies someone of
substance and taste; a Miami-style piece of fakery in Surrey says "footballer
and Wag live here". But who could possibly own the Castle - a castellated
redbrick pile with battlements and ramparts on the outskirts of
Stretton-on-Dunsmore, an Archers-perfect Warwickshire village eight miles from
Coventry? My bet was on a cardcarrying Ukip member in stained cords, toting a
loaded shotgun. But not a bit of it.

The great oak front door opens and I am greeted by Annika Wahlberg and her
fiancé, Ian Butcher, a former county cricketer and now coach. Charming and
welcoming, they positively ooze sanity - so how did they come to own such an,
er, idiosyncratic home? Built in the 1920s by Majorie Wilcox, a spinster, the
Castle had been clumsily extended over the past century and the interior was
dated. Pictures taken in 2004, when the couple bought the property for £437,500,
show lowceilinged rooms with false beams, fitted carpets and mock-Tudor decor.
The layout of the interior was awkward, too, with two bedrooms downstairs, and
the exterior brickwork was an odd mix of jarring styles. So what was the
attraction? "It's a long story," says Wahlberg, 47, whose appointment as
managing director of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in London has prompted the
couple to sell up: they are moving to the capital with their son, Felix, 10. "We
bought the Castle because its location was perfect and it had stables for my
five horses. It was just the house itself that needed attention."

That last sentence is something of an understatement. The couple's solution was
to knock down most of the external and a substantial proportion of the internal
walls and start again, reusing materials were possible.

"We'd come to the conclusion that the stairs, which ran into the living room,
were messing up the balance of the house," says Butcher, 47. He set about
transferring his all-round skills on the cricket pitch to the DIY arena. "We
started work in spring 2007, sleeping in the hallway, with just a piece of
hardboard to keep the weather out."

The build, which took two years and was only recently completed, was not without
its surprises. New floors had to be laid in the middle section of the house
where the old boards had rotted. The couple discovered that one of the
load-bearing beams was made of just two pieces of wood held together by a single
nail, resting on a brick pier.

Today, the castle is back to full strength. Upstairs, there are four bedrooms,
two with bathrooms, although the ensuite in the master bedroom has yet to be
completed.

Wahlberg, who moved to this country from Stockholm aged 19, took charge of
designing the interior, and there are Swedish influences throughout the
property, particularly in the interlinking sitting room, snug and kitchen to the
left of the hall.

"I chose wooden floors, which are distinctly Swedish," she says. "I also tried
to open everything out and make the kind of broad, uncluttered spaces we have at
home."

The walls in the reception rooms are painted in elephant's breath and mouse's
back - that's Farrow & Ball speak for shades of grey. There is just one reminder
of Butcher's cricketing days: a signed pencil sketch of the scoreboard at Lord's
recording a century he scored for Gloucestershire, drawn by the former England
wicketkeeper Jack Russell.

The project proved to be a challenge, but it was one that left the couple with
invaluable skills, if not a return on their investment. The Castle is on the
market with a guide price of £900,000; add renovation costs of about £400,000 to
what they paid and any potential profit will be eaten up by stamp duty and
removal costs. Wouldn't they have done better to have bought a piece of land and
built a spanking new, glass and steel, modernist home? "Undoubtedly, that would
have made more sense, financially," Wahlberg admits. "But we think this is
rather a special house. It's bold and it's a local landmark." She's right. Climb
the wrought-iron stairway to the battlements and you are back in Robin Hood
fantasy land. Only the hot tub on the roof, instead of a vat of boiling oil to
pour on marauding invaders, spoils the illusion.

Savills; 01295 228010, savills.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Castle was rebuilt by Ian Butcher and Annika Wahlberg, below with
their son, Felix

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 27, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond's grandstanding over TV debate is a turn-off

BYLINE: JENNY HJUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1033 words


The reason Britain has never had an American-style head-to-head debate between
its main party leaders is that one or other of them has always fought shy. Now
that they have finally agreed to take part in three live televised nationwide
events, a thorn has materialised in the form of Alex Salmond, Scotland's first
minister.

Whatever the opposite of shy is, that's Salmond. He has never knowingly turned
down an opportunity to appear in public and is so apoplectic at not being
invited to share the spotlight with Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg
that he is threatening to sue the television stations.

He would much rather silence the debates north of the border than see them aired
without him. Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalists, say they are also seeking
legal advice.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats in Scotland have announced they will counter
sue to ensure Scottish listeners are treated to the full coverage.

Electoral rules demand political impartiality from broadcasters and they do
seem, in this instance, to have been fair. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
have been offered separate slots, giving regional leaders their own forums.

The fact that only Brown, Cameron and Clegg are candidates for prime minister,
that Salmond isn't even standing in the Westminster election, and that the
Greens, UK Independence party and even the BNP polled more votes than the
Scottish nationalists at the last European elections, all add weight to the
television bosses' case.

It is hard to believe that their mindset is as "depressingly metropolitan", as
Salmond complains, because the format they have devised will appeal to voters
and viewers from Darlington to Dover and in every nook and cranny of the British
Isles where people participate in politics.

And despite the SNP's protests, Scots will tune in too. There is great interest
in this ballot, which is shaping up to be a close shave between the country's
two main political forces. Whether the Tories end 12 years of Labour rule, or
Brown manages to pull off an unprecedented fourth victory for Labour, it
promises to be an epic spectacle.

Scottish seats will be contested as vigorously by all parties as seats anywhere
else in the UK and the balance of power may well depend on how badly - or how
well - Cameron performs in Scotland. But this is not a Scottish election and
whatever the SNP's standing is in Scotland - or indeed Plaid Cymru's in Wales -
the regional leaders cannot try to claim equal billing, not even with Nick
Clegg. His chances of winning may be remote, but at least he is in the race.
Salmond is not and, in fact, is committed to the destruction of general (that
is, British) elections.

The nationalists remain a sideshow in the Westminster arena and three years of
government in devolved Scotland have done nothing to alter that. Salmond's boast
that his party leads in nationwide polls is not borne out by the bulk of recent
surveys.

The SNP is unlikely to gain many more than its current seven seats, according to
YouGov (the pollsters the party uses), and will fall well short of sending 20
MPs to the Commons, as Salmond so confidently predicted in October.

The English parliament will not be hung by a Scottish rope or dance to a
Scottish jig, and Salmond will have no more clout in influencing the next
British government than he does now.

This pains him, but it shouldn't. As much as he likes to strut the world stage
as a big player, he is at his most convincing in a cameo role. He is one of
life's natural character actors, adding colour, comedy even, to the political
drama, but never dominating the narrative.

Winning the Scottish election three years ago was an upset in a way and has
exposed his limitations. He is expected to govern now, not entertain, but he
doesn't have the patience. He is far happier acting the irritant than he is
sitting behind his desk and attending to the dull reality of public duty.

Throughout his time at the helm he has been least comfortable with the
day-to-day domestic minutiae of devolution. He only really gets into his stride
when he is making mischief with London.

And that is exactly what this is about. Berating the BBC over a perceived bias
is a handy diversion for Salmond. When his popularity is at an all time low,
when he has embarrassed himself and Scotland with his pointless jaunt to
Copenhagen, and when voters prefer even a lacklustre Scottish Labour to his
party, this is a gift of a spat that will tide him over the Christmas period. It
is a credit to Salmond's chutzpah that some commentators are prepared to take
his daft posturing seriously.

Fortunately, voters do not. He might insist that the break-up of Britain is a
key political issue, but for most people - anyone other than Scottish
nationalists - it is not. It is not a key political issue in Scotland, as poll
after poll has shown, and it is certainly not distracting English voters worried
about keeping their jobs in the new year.

Cameron has said that if he is voted in as prime minister, the constitution will
not be a priority, which is obviously what he thinks voters want him to say. In
trying to make separation not just a key issue but the main issue, Salmond has
alienated many of those in the Unionist camp, disaffected with Labour, who were
prepared to give him a go at government.

Nationalism is never more than a minority sport in British politics and
recession has relegated it further to the sidelines. Salmond's argument for a
prime time platform with Brown and company rests on the premise that separatism
dictates the political agenda and may decide the election.

The fact that it won't must drive him completely mad. It makes him lose the plot
to the extent that he - that great champion of free speech and the people's
voice - becomes an advocate for censorship.

He would sooner have no debate in Scotland than one which places him in the
proper context of devolved politics, down the pecking order. Selfishly, he has
allowed his sense of grievance to override the public interest, which is surely
not best served by legal threats or a broadcast black-out. But as this is the
season of soap operas and repeats, we can expect this one to run and run.

jenny.hjul@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

The year politics died of shame;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Leo McKinstry SECTION EDITOR

SECTION: LEADER; 32

LENGTH: 885  words


THIS WAS the year when the reputation of the political class went into meltdown.
Westminster's authority was obliterated by the expenses scandal, the
Government's by spectacular mismanagement. As a result of their conduct over the
past 12 months, our rulers have left the country on the verge of financial and
moral bankruptcy.

Ever since the credit crunch began, Gordon Brown has been boasting that he
"saved the world". In truth he has not even saved our economy from implosion.
Unlike most other Western nations, Britain remains mired in the pit of
recession.

During the past year, the downturn has been worsened by the policies that Brown
and his ineffectual sidekick Alistair Darling have implemented. Through their
gross irresponsibility, public debts have been racked up to unprecedented
levels, with the current deficit now at more than GBP 175billion.

The only people who did well out of Labour this year were welfare claimants and
bankers. Extra billions have been poured into social security, while the
colossal sums used to prop up the financial system have been exploited by
bankers seeking to maintain their inflated bonuses and pensions, espite all the
damage they have inflicted.

The culture of avarice was symbolised by Sir Fred Goodwin, the former chief
executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland, which had to be saved from insolvency
by a series of taxpayer-funded bailouts. Having masterminded the near collapse
of his bank, Goodwin left in January with a pension worth GBP 700,000 a year
before retreating to his villa on the French Riviera.

Labour has paid a heavy political price for its economic failures. By far its
most dismal result came in the local and European elections in June, in which
Labour received less than 16 per cent of the vote and finished a distant third
behind the UK Independence Party. Labour's collapse also meant that, for the
first time, the BNP won in a national election.

A SERIOUS crisis within the Cabinet was sparked by this disastrous performance.
At one stage, when the smooth, ambitious Work and Pensions secretary James
Purnell resigned with a withering assault on Brown's leadership, it looked as if
the PM would be toppled. He was only saved by Lord Mandelson rallying the rest
of the Cabinet round Brown.

Mandelson, once Brown's arch enemy, was rewarded with a grandiose new array of
titles. Indeed it is no exaggeration to describe him as the real driving force
of Brown's weakened Government.

Brown's image also took a deserved hammering when No 10 was engulfed in a major
sleaze scandal in April, after Damian McBride, his closest aide, was caught
plotting a vicious smear campaign against senior Tories. McBride, known in
Westminster as McPoison, was forced to resign and the affair made a mockery of
Brown's much vaunted "moral compass".

Moral integrity was also absent this year from the Commons, where MPs were
exposed for having indulged in relentless abuse of public money for personal
gain.

The climate of subsidised greed and selfentitlement was seen at its most
outrageous in the way a host of politicians built up property empires and put in
outlandish claims. The saga led to a string of resignations, including those of
Speaker Michael Martin and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith.

Despite public fury, MPs have exhibited neither a sense of shame nor a desire
for real reform. Only last week another Government minister, Sion Simon, was
revealed to have broken rules by claiming rent on a flat owned by his sister.

Despite Labour's ineptitude and unpopularity, the Tories have failed to build
the sort of unassailable lead that Blair achieved in the dying days of the Major
government. Some of this reflects David Cameron's reluctance to focus on Labour
failures that anger so many voters, such as softness on crime, uncontrolled
immigration and a loss of sovereignty to Brussels. After Ireland's vote in
favour of the Lisbon Treaty in October, for instance, Cameron's refusal to stick
by his "cast iron" pledge to give Britain a referendum on the issue caused
widespread dismay.

In response to the criticism about his lack of fire, Cameron has promised to
mount a vigorous campaign before the election. There has been some speculation
that Brown might go to the polls in March, trying to capitalise on perceived
Tory weaknesses but I think that, like Major, he will hang on until June 3, the
last possible date, hoping for some distant glimmers of economic recovery.

MY FEELING is that the Conservatives will gain between 60 and 80 seats, enough
to wipe out Labour's majority but not enough to prevent a hung Parliament.

Cameron will probably end up as PM but reliant on the support of minor parties.

It should be remembered that the Tories face a huge task. Since the Victorian
age they have only once ousted a government with a working majority. Buttressed
b y class-war rhetoric and core votes of the welfare, migrant and public sector
clientele, Labour will do better than expected but still suffer widespread
losses.

On some of the intriguing personal contests, I believe Margaret Hodge will
defeat the BNP's Nick Griffin in Barking but ne w Speaker John Bercow will lose
his Buckingham seat to Nigel Farage of UKIP.

Cameron will narrowly emerge the overall winner but he has a very tough six
months ahead and an even tougher spell i f he makes it to office.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: Jacqui Smith was just one of a string of expenses-scandal
casualties

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday

WILL BRUSSELS SPROUT UP IN WESTMINSTER?

BYLINE: BY QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1002 words


EUROPE is making moves to give British MEPs the 'right' to sit in the House of
Commons at certain times in the year.

The proposal is only at a nascent stage -- that of a particularly nasty moth
emerging from its pupa -- but it represents a threat to the electoral purity of
our sovereign parliament.

The policy at present falls into the lap of Commons Speaker John Bercow. He
seems less than urgently gripped by the danger, something his rival Nigel Farage
of Ukip is quick to decry.

The Europeans' idea is, on the face of it, not unreasonable. They reckon that
MEPs probably know more than most of us about European legislation (fair
comment) and think they should therefore help the Commons scrutinise laws
emerging from Brussels. This could be done by them helping the Commons select
committee on European scrutiny.

Here one hits an awkward principle. Should Commons parliamentary scrutiny not be
the preserve of elected parliamentarians? Once you start to unpick that, the
whole notion of parliamentary sovereignty could disintegrate.

This cunning plan, as Baldrick might put it, was on the agenda at a Swedish
gathering of speakers of Europe's various national assemblies. It went further
than what I have just outlined. It proposed, furthermore, that MEPs should have
'the right to be invited once a year to speak in plenary sittings of national
parliaments'.

In plain English, this means giving MEPs the right to sit on the green leather
benches of the Commons Chamber. The proposal-was issued under the name of the
president of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, and was discussed in
Stockholm at an EU Speakers' Conference on Friday, December 11, and Saturday,
December 12.

Speaker Bercow did not attend the meeting because it 'clashed with parliamentary
business' (actually, the Commons did not sit on either of those days). Instead,
he sent along the Deputy Speaker, Sir Alan Haselhurst.

Sir Alan confirms that the proposal was on the agenda. He says he did his best
to play a dead bat. But the matter is unlikely to rest there. It will be
discussed next in Madrid at a conference in early May, quite possibly clashing
with our general election.

Ukip, whose Mr Farage hopes to beat Mr Bercow in Buckingham at that election,
employs heavy irony in praising 'the robust defence of our parliamentary
sovereignty by the Speaker's office'.

Mr Farage adds: 'It had ruddy better not fly, this proposal. Ukip will shoot it
down if it does. Those whose job it is to guard our rights in Westminster seem
to be sleepwalking into oblivion.'

HOT TICKET . . . TOO HOT FOR SOME

A MIDDLE-AGED gent was seen stomping away from the West End's Comedy Theatre at
half-time the other night.

The furious customer was Nigel Massey, Garrick Club sweat and hotel promoter.

'I bought three 685 three tickets for use of a private members' lounge, a glass
of champagne a programme and a poster,' he rages. 'The lounge was more like a
corridor without chairs. Our dress circle seats were worse than something off a
budget airline. It was stifling hot and by

8.30pm we had had quite enough. So we legged it.'

Mr Massey's tickets were part of a 'Celebration Package'. Is it not a reliable
rule that any marketing device called 'Celebration Package' is going to be a
living hell?

SON TAKES A SHINE TO SARAH

FINALLY, back to where we started. Recently the Commons stopped issuing visitor
passes to MEPs. This was done to prevent Nick Griffin MEP, leader of the British
Nationalist Party, from strolling around the corridors of the Palace of
Westminster.

Mr Griffin may have more joy from the Lords, for I hear the Upper House intends
to go on issuing passes to MEPs. Authorities at the Commons are less than
gruntled, because the Palace of Westminster is one big entity.

'We may have to get one of our doorkeepers to rugby-tackle Griffin if he appears
near the Commons lobbies,' says an official. The son of controversial Labour
donor Lord Paul recently had a Lords pass.

Angad Paul, chief executive of Daddy's Caparo company, is not a modest man. He
loves to style himself 'The Hon Angad Paul' (as children of peers may, though
few are vulgar enough to do so).

A few months ago 'the Hon Angad' was awarded a prize by Sarah Brown (above). Mr
Paul was soon boasting of his encounter with the PM's wife.

Should Mrs Brown not keep her distance from over-familiar business types?

ALL THE FUN OF THE FARE

ED MILIBAND'S Department for Climate Change is forever urging us to use
energyefficient public transport. So you may be interested to know that in a
six-month period last year the Department's ministers and officials clocked up
663,000 on taxis.

FROM the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu (right), comes the following joke,
told in Parliament: A plane got into trouble across the Atlantic. The captain
asked the permission of the passengers to open the hold and dump the luggage
into the ocean. 'Yes, yes, yes,' they cried, and it was done. Thirty minutes
later, the captain said: 'We are still losing altitude. We must get rid of your
hand luggage.' They cried out 'of course', and it was done. An hour later, the
captain said: 'We still need to lose more weight. Fifty people will be safely
dropped in the water with their lifejackets. This airline operates an inclusive
equal opportunities policy and we shall now put it into operation. We shall use
the alphabet to guide us. A -- are there any Africans on board?' Silence. 'B --
are there any black people on board?' Silence. 'C -- are there any Caribbeans on
board?' Silence.

A little black boy turned to his father and said: 'Dad, who are we?' The father
replied: 'We are Zulus!

FAREWELL to Sir Liam Donaldson, who is quitting as Chief Medical Officer. Sir
Liam loved to lecture us on how to supervise our families' health, eg MMR jabs
and alcohol policy for teenagers. Is it too much to ask that bachelor Sir Liam's
successor be someone who has had children?

THE Commons resumes on January 5. You may not be surprised to hear the
parliamentary ski team will make its annual outing to the Alps that same week.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday

VISCOUNT MANDY BUYS BALMORAL AND MR SPEAKER WINS STRICTLY COME DANCING WITH HIS
MINI-SKIRTED MRS

LENGTH: 1476 words


PETER OBORNE'S 2010 ALMANAC

AS IS CUSTOMARY AT THIS TIME OF YEAR, OUR POLITICAL COLUMNIST GETS OUT HIS
TRUSTY CRYSTAL BALL AND PEERS INTO THE FUTURE. . .

THE Crown Prosecution Service announces that six MPs are to be prosecuted for
fraud and theft. Tory poll lead tumbles to eight points.

It emerges that Tony Blair earned 650 million last year from making speeches at
international conferences -- far more than previously estimated. As a result,
the former Labour PM becomes a non-dom, refusing to pay tax on his overseas
earnings and basing his private company (called Toblerone Talks Inc) in Geneva.

OFFICIAL government figures show that Britain has finally emerged from
recession, becoming the last country in the G20 group of leading industrial
nations to do so. Gordon Brown hails this as a triumph for his own economic
management and insists it is nothing to do with 'global events'.

Divided about how best to exploit the improved conditions, the Cabinet splits
over the timing of the election.

Ed Balls and Ed Miliband want to take advantage of favourable economic headlines
and Labour's rise in the polls and urge a snap March election, while Peter
Mandelson urges Brown to hang on until June. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister
can't make up his mind.

BROWN still can't decide. Tony Blair admits to the Chilcot Inquiry into the Iraq
War that he knew all along that Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass
destruction because his wife had been told as much by a Mongolian shaman.

The Tory lead in the polls falls to just four points. Alistair Darling announces
in the Budget that VAT is to rise to 20 per cent. Although the tax take has
fallen by a record 25 per cent, he hails an above-inflation splurge in spending
on health and education. Home Secretary Alan Johnson shamefully extradites
computer hacker Gary McKinnon to the United States.

EUROPE is plunged into another epic financial crisis as Greece defaults on its
debts, causing stock markets to collapse.

Brown delays the election yet again as he calls an urgent meeting of the G20 to
confront the problem. Tony Blair announces that he will be leaving Britain for
good, and puts his family's six British properties up for sale.

Further good news comes from Africa with the resumption of economic growth in
Zimbabwe as a result of the brilliant economic management of new prime minister
Morgan Tsvangirai.

LLOYDS Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland go bankrupt for a second time. This time
they are nationalised at a loss of 6800 billion to the British taxpayer.
Alistair Darling tells Jeremy Paxman this is a 'price worth paying' and that it
was the first time his wife had heard him 'singing in the bath'.

Consequently, international ratings agencies downgrade British government bonds
while sterling falls below parity to the euro.

Gordon Brown finally calls the General Election for June 3, the last possible
date he can legally do so.

He says he plans to campaign on a 'doctor's mandate', as the only man, in the
footsteps of fellow Scot Dr Finlay, capable of restoring the economy to health.
Israel launches pre-emptive strike against Iranian nuclear facilities, sending
the cost of oil above $300 a barrel.

Tony Blair says he wants to return

to Britain to campaign for Gordon Brown. But he is reluctant to risk his non-
dom status if he spends too many days in the country, so he says he will
restrict himself to one speech, organised by PR executive Matthew Freud.

BLAIR is prevented from returning to Britain after a London magistrate issues a
warrant for his arrest in connection with war crimes charges. David Cameron
becomes Prime Minister after the closest-run general election in British
history.

The BNP secures its first ever parliamentary seat in Barking, where Nick Griffin
overcomes Labour's Margaret Hodge. The Greens win their first ever seat, in
Brighton, while Commons Speaker John Bercow is convincingly defeated by UKIP
leader Nigel Farage in Buckingham.

However, Cameron's failure to secure an overall majority means the Tories must
go into coalition with the Liberal Democrats.

Nick Clegg becomes Home Secretary in Cameron's first Cabinet, while Lembit Opik
becomes Minister for Fun. Former Labour ministers James Purnell and Andrew
Adonis cross the floor of the Commons to become Welfare Secretary and Education
Secretary respectively.

Gordon Brown's resignation honour's list includes peerages for Harry Potter
author JK Rowling and Quentin Davies, the Labour MP who tried to charge
taxpayers 620,000 for mending his bell-tower. Another eyecatching honour is the
viscountcy handed to Peter Mandelson.

GIVING evidence at last to the Chilcot Inquiry, Opposition leader Gordon Brown
reveals that he argued against the invasion of Iraq.

As a centrepiece of the Queen's Speech, legislation is put forward to reform the
country's education system by getting rid of failed comprehensives and replacing
them with self-governing schools.

As part of a series of moves to slash state spending and bureaucracy, the number
of MPs is slashed to 500. Trevor Phillips is sacked from the Equalities
Commission and Dame Suzi Leather is ousted from the Charities Commission.

The new government is derailed by a huge row between Cameron and Clegg over the
Tories' refusal to back plans for proportional representation. England lose to
the U.S. in the group stages of the World Cup: the eventual winner is Ghana.

THE international economic crisis grows ever graver. Amid widespread financial
suffering, the Queen volunteers a 20 per cent cut in the Civil List and suggests
selling Balmoral as an emergency cost-cutting measure.

A catastrophic fall in the value of the euro sees unemployment reach 25 per cent
in Spain. Greece pulls out of the euro and (amid huge national celebration)
reintroduces the drachma, leading to heavy pressure on Spain, Portugal and Italy
to follow suit.

Cameron announces a large number of new Tory peers, among them Lord David Ross,
co-founder of Carphone Warehouse, and the PR magnate Matthew Freud. In a
populist gesture, it's also Lord Terry Wogan of Togs.

Boris Johnson turns down a seat in the Lords after he scents a cunning plot to
stop him trying to succeed Cameron as Tory leader. Shaun Woodward, the Tory MP
who defected to Labour in 2001, tries to redefect to the Tories. However,
Cameron refuses to let him.

CHANCELLOR George Osborne unveils an emergency budget to cut the 6200 billion
public deficit.

Measures include a 65-a-week reduction in unemployment benefit, the doubling of
university tuition fees to 66,000 a year, the abolition of the Equalities
Commission, 63 billion taken from the foreign aid budget and the winding down of
the Royal Air Force.

VAT is raised to 25p in the pound. The BBC licence fee is slashed and the
Corporation's director-general Mark Thompson is pilloried for claiming expenses
to fly home from a family holiday in Italy to deal with the crisis.

Hidden in the small print of the Budget's accompanying Red Book is the
revelation that the Tories have abandoned plans to increase the threshold for
inheritance tax.

However, Osborne admits publicly that he will keep the 50p in the pound top tax
rate and raises taxes on non-doms. Cherie Blair expresses outrage, claiming the
tax is vindictive. Former U.S. defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld is arrested in
London on charges of war crimes.

EIGHT MPs jailed for expenses fraud. Cherie Blair uses the Human Rights Act to
mount a challenge against the Tories' plans for increasing taxes on non-doms.
Britain slides back into recession.

At the Labour conference, a brutal battle erupts for the party leadership after
Gordon Brown refuses to step down. A furious Viscount Mandelson resigns from the
Shadow Cabinet and takes a job working for banker Jacob Rothschild and the
Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. Civil war breaks out in Iraq. Tony Blair buys a
650 million mansion on Palm Beach.

GORDON BROWN wins the battle to stay on as Labour leader. Viscount Mandelson
purchases Balmoral. Former Commons Speaker Bercow and his wife Sally star in the
eighth series of BBC1's Strictly Come Dancing.

Donald Rumsfeld is returned to the U.S. as part of an extraordinary legal deal
which, in exchange, sees British computer hacker Gary McKinnon flown back to
Britain.

STILL entangled in a row over his non-dom tax status, Tony Blair accepts an
invitation to spend Christmas in George Bush's Texas ranch. Cherie and the rest
of her family stay with Viscount Mandelson at Balmoral, where fellow guests
include Oleg Deripaska, David and Samantha Cameron, Colonel Gaddafi's son and
the newly ennobled PR magnate Lord Freud of Notting Hill. Between them, they
shoot 15,000 pheasants, along with two beaters.

Down South, at Sandringham, the Queen agrees to hand over her annual Christmas
broadcast to a leading politician. Viscount Mandelson graciously volunteers to
deliver this year's message from the Balmoral Castle Ballroom.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 24, 2009 Thursday

Cameron goes back to Witney and prepares for government;
The Tory leader will use the;
calm of his constituency to brace himself for the challenges of power, says
Benedict Brogan

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading article; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1165  words


The Christmas truce will be a brief one this year. There will be time for
church, for drawing strength from family, for bracing walks across the frosted
Oxfordshire fields, precious moments of calm snatched away from the telephone
and the incessant clamour of the BlackBerry. For a few days, David Cameron will
escape the hourly demands of Opposition and be left to contemplate the decisive
months ahead, and what victory will mean for him.

For all that his colleagues mutter about narrowing polls and a hung Parliament,
Mr Cameron believes he will be the next prime minister. Not in a presumptuous
way: he is by nature too driven to be complacent. But where a nervous Tony Blair
held the prospect at arm's length even as the results came in on election night,
the Conservative leader has reconciled himself to the prospect of power. His
thoughts are now turned to how he will exercise it.

That Mr Cameron is even thinking about what life will be like in Downing Street
would appear to contradict Labour's golden rule about the perils of complacency
in politics. Yet he takes nothing for granted; rather, he believes that there is
not a moment to lose. Such is the challenge facing the country that he would be
failing in his duty if he did not do everything possible to ready himself
mentally and physically for the demands the voters may make of him.

Much has been said about the unprecedented work of preparation being done by the
team led by Francis Maude, Nicholas Boles and Oliver Letwin. If the voters give
them the nod, the Tories will enter government armed not just with policies -
the last of the 20 green papers that will form the manifesto are due within
weeks - but with an

18-month implementation plan. It will centre on a first Queen's Speech packed
with structural changes to the way Britain works, which they know have to be
done early and quickly if they are to be done at all.

But as he hunkers down in Witney for a moment's reprieve, it is worth
considering how Mr Cameron is steeling himself for what lies ahead. Those who
know him report a change in his demeanour, an imperceptible shift in how he
carries himself and how those around him respond. He is more solicitous of
people, less prone to the imperiousness that has been one of his weaknesses.

He has been studying how past prime ministers approached the job in the early
stages. He does not want to repeat the well-rehearsed mistakes of Mr Blair, who
now acknowledges that he threw away his first term trying to work out what he
wanted to do. Mr Cameron is rereading The Downing Street Years, the second
volume of Margaret Thatcher's memoirs. He is taken by the mistakes her
government made in its first two years, including giving the police a 20 per
cent pay rise, which appeared to pander to special interests.

Part of his strategy for avoiding the confusion and drift that could follow
victory has been to clear the decks of unfinished business and close off the
flanks that remain exposed. His promise to legislate to make MPs and peers pay
tax in the UK was a way of shutting down the debate about wealthy donors with
complicated affairs. Privately, he would prefer it if Lord Ashcroft clarified
his position voluntarily, but he points out that the billionaire peer has never
tried to influence policy (others reply that he is doing just that by taking
such a dominant role in shaping and mentoring the next intake of MPs). There may
be other such tests before polling day. For example, will Mr Cameron turn his
face away from high-living money men such as David Ross, who make the wrong kind
of headlines?

The Conservative leader has stayed ahead of the pack on expenses. Behind the
scenes, those Tory MPs with questionable claims who have not stood down
voluntarily are being "helped'' with their decision to go quietly. Julie
Kirkbride's attempt to cling on was killed off in part by Mr Cameron. On Europe,
he has been less successful. He recognises that the party's softening in the
polls is in part due to his compromise on the Lisbon Treaty. He knows that many
Conservatives are disappointed. We can expect efforts to soothe them in the new
year, though whether that will be enough to win back the defectors to Ukip who
make the difference in the marginals is unclear.

The current talk is about the Tories' plans to "hit the ground running'' in
January. Certainly, they want to go great guns from the new year weekend
onwards. They have plenty of money to spend. There will be announcements,
posters, internet campaigns, viral videos, and saturation television coverage. A
bumper book of campaign literature has been distributed to all candidates.
Chunks of the draft manifesto are waiting to be unveiled in coming weeks,
probably in phases. Although most of it has been trailed before, Team Cameron
will keep trying to interest us in the detail. "We have always felt that we have
the kind of innovative policies that have not been given the kind of focus we
think they deserve,'' one aide says. Others believe there is no point. Voters
will decide on instinct, they say, informed by what one calls the Tories'
"aroma'': do these guys smell any good?

In the end, however, it is the voters' judgment of Mr Cameron himself that will
decide it. Not "Is he a nice guy?'' But "is he up to the job?'' At every
difficult moment, he has risen to the occasion. He is best under pressure - the
speech without notes that helped see off Gordon Brown's plan for an early
election in 2007; his swift response to the expenses crisis. If he wins, the
pressure can only grow. His core strategy is about inner core: he has stepped up
his fitness regime to build his stamina, dropped the cigarettes and hopes he can
rely on seven hours' sleep (he knows he is no Lady Thatcher in this regard). His
family, who have grown even closer after the loss of Ivan, will be his rock in

No 10, even if his wife Samantha - arguably his most powerful asset - plans to
keep on working.

Mr Cameron's inner team is settled in what he calls a diamond formation, with
Andy Coulson, the Essex man, on the right wing, his ideas guru Steve Hilton
providing the empathy and George Osborne offering the unshakeable will to win.
Mr Cameron's own position is unclear: perhaps as a kind of defensive
player-manager, setting the strategic direction for the whole.

Even since 1997, and certainly since 1979, the political environment has changed
beyond recognition. A new Tory government would have to contend with a
relentless 24-hour media cycle at a time of economic turmoil and fiscal
retrenchment. Couple that with a small majority and it is no wonder that one of
the things Mr Cameron is pondering how to stay ahead of the ravening pack. "You
guys are going to kill me,'' he tells journalists. "I have to come out firing on
day one.''

For him, the first days and months will be a race against time to get things
done before the crowds turn on him. Those are the thoughts that follow him this
weekend as he prepares to call his party unto the breach.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

LENGTH: 553 words


Column

WHY IT'S RIGHT TO HAVE A POLITICAL X FACTOR

LAGGING 50 years behind the U.S., the leaders of Britain's three main political
parties finally agree to take part in a series of televised pre-election
debates. And immediately all hell breaks loose.

The Scottish Nationalists, Plaid Cymru and UKIP raise anguished cries of 'foul',
demanding equal billing with the big three, while some threaten legal action to
block the debates if they can't participate.

For their part, the Scottish LibDems say they, too, may go to court ñ to ensure
the programmes go ahead as planned.

Meanwhile, Westminster villagers bicker frantically about which party the
debates are likely to favour.

Citing the U.S. experience, some say David Cameron has the most to lose, as the
leader of the party ahead in the polls.

Others argue that he will have the advantage, since he is more telegenic than
Gordon Brown.

Others again complain that the debates will give an unfair boost to the LibDems,
by offering Nick Clegg equal status.

Children, children! Enough! Yes, the Mail accepts that the three-way debates
will not be wholly fair. And, yes, regional and minor parties may have a
legitimate grievance, which the broadcasters must do all they can to redress
elsewhere during the election.

But in this less than ideal world, it's impossible to devise a format to please
everyone, from the mainstream to the Monster Raving Loonies, without producing
an unwatchable and unilluminating cacophony that would drag on for days.

All parties should recognise that our democracy is in crisis, with the public
feeling more detached from the political process than at any time since the
introduction of universal suffrage.

These televised debates, imperfect though they may be, can only help to
re-engage voters with those who seek the honour of representing them.

The Mail, for one, warmly welcomes them as long overdue.

OUTLAW THE RIP-OFFS

IN A bitter blow to millions of borrowers, the Office of Fair Trading drops its
case against extortionate charges, meaning the banks will be able to keep
£10billion they've screwed from their customers. And they will be free to keep
doing it to the tune of £2.6billion a year.

But why should they be allowed to? The Government was quick enough to intervene,
with billions of taxpayers' money, when bankers' greed led them to the brink of
disaster.

It must intervene again with clear legislation making rip-off charges illegal.

DEVIL'S ADVOCATE

IF this mentality were his alone, the Mail wouldn't stoop to comment on the
ravings of an exhibitionist Yorkshire vicar, who advises his flock to shoplift
from large stores when they feel the pinch.

But the Rev Tim Jones is far from the only one, in a position to know better,
who has forgotten the commandment: 'Thou shalt not steal'.

Look at the criminal justice system, which routinely lets shoplifters off with a
caution -- as many as ten in a year for a single offender.

Look at our MPs, helping themselves to our cash for their fantasy mortgages,
with a monstrous sense of entitlement.

And let's not forget the epidemic of welfare fraud, encouraged by a Government
that makes a virtue of raiding workers' pay packets to keep the feckless in
idleness.

Victimless crimes? Try telling that to cheated shoppers and taxpayers,
struggling to feed their families on the fruits of honest toil.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday

Leading Article: Televised debates: And about time too

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 650 words


First, some good news. In next year's UK general election there will at last be
televised debates between the main party leaders. What took us so long? There
have been televisions in the majority of British homes since before the Elvis
Presley era. Next year it will be half a century since the United States held
its first presidential debate - two of our three party leaders were not even
born when Kennedy met Nixon. Here in Britain, politicians have too often seen
television as more threat than opportunity. We may be a long way from the 1955
general election, when broadcasters actually observed a complete election
reporting ban during the campaign, allowing only party election broadcasts on
the airwaves. Yet British elections have still been disablingly cautious about
embracing modern communications. Today's party leaders deserve a pat on the back
for taking us across the threshold at last.

Now, some bad news. The deal that has been struck between the political parties
and the broadcasters to hold three debates during the 2010 campaign is in
significant respects neither sensible nor fair. It is not sensible because each
of the debates is to be handed to a separate broadcaster, not carried
simultaneously by all three. Before the debates go ahead we should adopt the
American system in which all the networks and all the cable news channels
simultaneously carry all of the debates.

The debates are not fair to Scotland and Wales. Both nations are represented in
Westminster by four parties, not three, and have been for 30 years. In both
countries, nationalist parties are in government. The SNP and Plaid Cymru are
not aspiring parliamentary parties like Ukip, the Greens or a dozen others even
further to the margins. They are there already. It is inevitable, nevertheless,
that the debates process should make distinctions between the three main UK-wide
parties on the one hand and the nationalists on the other. The three main
parties, after all, are competing in all British constituencies, and their
leaders are competing to be prime minister of the UK.

Northern Ireland is a different situation entirely because the UK parties do not
compete for seats there, but it would be entirely unacceptable to entirely
exclude the nationalists in Scotland and Wales as the current deal proposes.
Quebec nationalists are within Canada's coast-to-coast federal election debates,
and a solution will also have to be found for the UK. So there are details to be
worked through. But suddenly, one way or another, televised election debates are
here to stay. Having allowed them once, we will surely never disallow them in
the future. The debates should therefore be properly and independently
regulated, as they are in the US. It is not good enough for the ring to be held
only by the political parties and the broadcasters, all of whom have vested
interests in the deal. It is very important that the questions to the leaders
are properly probing, not trivial, abusive or self-promoting. Even at this
stage, the Electoral Commission should be given the responsibility to devise and
supervise the debates in the public interest, ensuring that the process is fair,
balanced, robust, comprehensive and independent - and ensuring the presence of a
female face or three among the inquisitors.

Televised debates can be an important part of the re-engagement with politics
that this country needs and that the next election may help to provide. We
should not expect too much of them - experience in many countries suggests that
they rarely change the public's already-half-made-up mind. Despite the
politicians' collective insistence that they will thrash out the issues that
matter, there is bound to be a good deal of cheap point-scoring. Even so, they
should not be so regulated that they become boring. For all the predictable
flaws, the new debates are a step forward. About time too. Bring them on.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Debates could be the tonic our electoral politics needs;
LEADING ARTICLE The ability to make the case on TV is part of being a modern
politician

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 585 words


The next general election, whenever it is held, will bring Britain into the
modern age in one crucial, and welcome, way. The leaders of the three major
national parties have agreed to meet in a series of televised debates, as their
counterparts have done for many years in the US and latterly in Europe.
Electoral politics will finally come into voters' homes in a way it has never
done before.

It could be said that this will not be as revolutionary an experience for
Britain as it has been for other countries. The weekly joust that is Prime
Minister's Questions means the head of the Government is regularly challenged in
the Commons. The BBC's Question Time and the British style of political
interviewing, some of the most aggressive in the world, have ensured a media
presence for undiluted politics.

Yet there is nothing quite like a televised electoral debate. At Prime
Minister's Questions there is a clear order of precedence, in which the Liberal
Democrats very much take third place. Any procedural rules - and reams of them
will be hammered out between now and then - will ensure that all three are
treated equally.

But the main reason why televised electoral debates have no parallel is because
the stakes are so high, and no amount of preparation can guarantee the outcome.
While some encounters can be lively, others tetchy, and others even tedious,
there are also those that have transformed the larger contest. The first US
presidential debate, Kennedy-Nixon, is the most renowned, but it is far from the
only one to have helped determine the result.

Anticipation of a decisive moment is one reason why election debates attract
audiences. But they also communicate something about the candidates that may not
be conveyed any other way. The interest such debates command also offers at
least part of an answer to voter apathy and cynicism which makes Britain's first
election debates particularly well timed.

The current state of political play also explains why all three leaders have
agreed to take part, when even so capable a modern politician as Tony Blair
rejected the idea out of hand. As the underdog, Gordon Brown has nothing to
lose, and perhaps something to gain, from his wealth of experience and serious
demeanour. David Cameron, for the Conservatives, has a chance to show off his
undoubted mastery of the medium, while trying also to prove that he has
substance. And Nick Clegg, for the Liberal Democrats, gains a forum that will
place him before a national audience on an equal footing with the other leaders.

There are always objections that can be raised, and Alex Salmond for the
Scottish Nationalists is first in the queue, threatening legal action against
his party's exclusion. Plaid Cymru, the Greens and Ukip are also calling the
debates undemocratic. But even three participants in a debate can be a crowd,
and the wide gap in national support between the major parties and the others is
justification enough.

More generally, it is argued that televised debates have no place in a
parliamentary system, where voters do not elect a national leader directly, and
only foster an unhealthy personalisation of politics. The response must be that
debates have done no harm to other parliamentary systems and today's politics is
already highly personal. At home and abroad, televisual skill is an asset for a
politician. There is no point in lamenting a supposedly purer form of politics.
Televised debates could be just the tonic British politics, and the jaded
British public, need.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday

BROWN FINALLY AGREES TO A TV DEBATE

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 605 words


DOWNING Street last night bowed to demands for Gordon Brown to take part in
televised election debates with David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

A deal has been struck between news broadcasters and the main parties that will
mean three prime-time clashes in the run-up to the general election.

It is the first time that party leaders have gone head to head in live debates
similar to those that have for so long helped determine the outcome of American
presidential races.

The move has infuriated smaller parties - including Plaid Cymru, the SNP and
UKIP - who have been excluded. A legal challenge which could yet scupper the
debates is expected. Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg have long been calling on Mr Brown
to take part in a live TV clash, but it had been seen as unlikely that the three
main parties would agree on the timing and format.

In 1996, Tony Blair, who was well ahead in the opinion polls, refused John
Major's offer of a head-tohead debate.

The clashes are high risk for both Mr Brown and Mr Cameron. Though not as far
ahead as Mr Blair was, the Tories enjoy a clear poll lead that could be put at
risk if Mr Cameron, normally a confident and fluent media performer, slipped up
on camera.

But Tory strategists believe that the more voters see of their leader, the more
they like him, while the opposite is true of Mr Brown. However, they concede
that the exposure the debates will afford to Mr Clegg could boost the appeal of
his LibDems.

Though his television performances have often been described as faltering and
wooden, Mr Brown's advisers appear to have calculated that he has little to lose
by agreeing to take part.

Downing Street sources said the Prime Minister would aim to highlight his
command of key areas of policy and what they see as Mr Cameron's inexperience.

The three programmes will be broadcast in prime time on the BBC, ITV and Sky and
will be between 85 and 90 minutes long in front of an audience picked as
representative of the whole country.

Around half an hour of each debate will focus on a specific area of policy,
likely to include the economy and foreign affairs.

ITV will host the first session which will be presented by veteran newsreader
Alastair Stewart; Sky News will broadcast the second, to be moderated by its
political editor Adam Boulton; and Question Time host David Dimbleby will chair
the third debate for the BBC.

Downing Street is still pushing for separate debates to be held between
ministers and their shadows on the Tory front bench. Last night Mr Brown said:
'The country needs to debate whether we lock in the recovery or whether we choke
it off; whether we protect the NHS, schools and police or whether we put them at
risk to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy few.

'And to debate whether we continue to put Britain at the top table in Europe or
whether we consign it to the extreme fringes.'

Mr Cameron said: 'I've been pushing for two years for this to happen. I've
always believed in live television debates.

'They can help enliven our democracy, I think they will help answer people's
questions, I think they will help crystallise the debate about the change this
country needs and I'm delighted.'

Former Downing Street aide Matthew Taylor said: 'Labour have got all to gain
from this and the Conservatives have got all to lose.

'It's good news for the Liberal Democrats because Nick Clegg will get equal
billing to the other two.'

Last night a poll suggested Britain is on course for a hung Parliament, with the
Tory lead down to nine points. The ComRes survey for the Independent put them on
38 per cent and Labour on 29 per cent. Some 49 per cent said the Tories were not
'appealing'.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday

Front: Seconds out, round one ... party leaders agree plan for historic live TV
debates: Deal to stage three peak time question sessions: Boulton, Stewart and
Dimbleby to moderate

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words


Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg are to go head-to-head in Britain's
first live prime ministerial TV debates as part of next year's general election
campaign, following an agreement yesterday between broadcasters and the three
main political parties.

The parties and main TV channels have been negotiating on the format of the
debates for months, but yesterday they announced they had reached agreement on
the details and format they will take.

It has been agreed that three programmes will be broadcast in peak time in front
of studio audiences. Each will be between 85 and 90 minutes long. About half of
each debate will be themed.

ITV is to stage the first debate, which will be presented by Alistair Stewart.
Sky will present the second debate presented by Adam Boulton, and David Dimbleby
will present the final programme on the BBC. It has yet to be decided whether
questions will be posed by presenters or members of the public in the audience.
The format excludes Channel Four and parties such as the Greens, Ukip and
nationalists .

The decision represents a risk for Cameron, the frontrunner, and some senior
Tory activists expressed fears last night that he had sent a lifeline to a
flailing Labour campaign.

Labour had been calling for six debates, claiming the Conservatives wanted only
one, but Labour's chief negotiator, Lord Mandelson, agreed to the compromise of
three. The Conservatives said they had always been happy with three debates, but
had opposed a Labour proposal that the debates start before the election
campaign.

The leaders' debates will be staged in the first three weeks of a four-week
campaign with no debate held in the week of polling day. It is expected that one
debate will focus on foreign affairs, one on the economy and one on public
services, but it is possible that the foreign affairs debate will be dropped in
favour of another subject if there is insufficient difference between the
parties on foreign issues.

The agreement gives Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader and the least- known
of the three party leaders, a chance to shine. Previous plans to stage such
debates - notably in 1997 when the idea was backed by John Major - failed partly
over disagreements on whether the Lib Dems should be involved.

Clegg expressed his pleasure last night, saying: "After a terrible year for
politicians because of the expenses scandals, these debates will be an
opportunity to start re-engaging people with politics."

Cameron, seen as a better communicator than Brown, might have most to lose as
the latest poll - by ComRes for the Independent last night - showed the Tories
with a nine-point lead. But Cameron said last night: "I have been pushing this
for two years to happen. I think it can enliven our democracy."

Brown will hope the nearly four-and-a-half hours of TV debate will give him the
chance to show his grasp of the issues. His spokesman said the prime minister
was relishing the prospect, pointing out that commentators thought his
performances in the Commons had improved. But one Labour strategist said: "We
are not naive. We know that physical appearance, demeanour and how our man looks
whilst other candidates talk will be as important to viewers as what he says."

The Labour campaign team has sent officials to the US to talk to TV production
teams and Democratic campaigners. Brown will also have to restrain his temper if
he starts to be attacked by the TV audience. Labour said it was still seeking to
agree high-profile TV debates involving other members of the cabinet and shadow
cabinet, especially one between Alistair Darling, the chancellor, and his shadow
George Osborne.

A Tory spokeswoman said her party was very happy to extend the format to other
senior figures.

Some Tory activists admitted doubts at Cameron's decision, fearing the novelty
of the TV debate means they would become a central focus of the campaign.

Tim Montgomerie, editor of the ConservativeHome website said: "Heading for a
massive defeat, Gordon Brown has been given a lifeline by these TV debates.

"They will also be a big boost for Nick Clegg. I hope the Conservative
headquarters does not live to regret this decision."

The SNP's leader, Alex Salmond, said the decision was an attempt to rig the
election. "The broadcasters have got to meet their public service obligations to
audiences across the UK, and for them to propose debates which signally fail to
do so shows an extraordinarily high-handed attitude and depressingly
metropolitan mindset," he said.

Separate debates will be held in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, which
will be broadcast on BBC Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and on the BBC
News Channel.

Captions:

TV companies have been in talks for months to get agreement for three debates
between David Cameron, Nick Clegg and Gordon Brown. Each will last about 90
minutes

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tories still dogged by 'rich toffs' image;
Analysis

BYLINE: Michael Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 374 words


"Yes, but..." That seems to be the conclusion of voters at the prospect of a
Tory government led by David Cameron in 135 days time - assuming a general
election on 6 May. Voters' responses to the latest ComRes poll for The
Independent show that the Tory leader has still not "sealed the deal" with the
electorate.

The headline lead of 9 points suggests a hung parliament with the Tories five
seats short of an overall majority. The good news for Mr Cameron is that
Labour's rating is precisely the same as the that of John Major's government in
the run-up to the 1997 election. The bad news is that, whereas the Labour
opposition scored between 45 and 50 per cent, Mr Cameron is struggling, on the
evidence of this poll, to reach 40 per cent.

So the country feels as bad about Gordon Brown as it did about John Major, yet
is uncomfortable about the possibility of a Tory government. Voters universally
wanted the Tories out in 1997 - and were universally prepared to vote for the
opposition. The difference now is that Mr Cameron has lost 10 per cent of the
anti-government vote to "other" parties. Their total never exceeded 5 per cent
in 1997. His task is still to persuade the voters who are prepared to vote
green, BNP or Ukip to vote Tory.

So what is the explanation for Mr Cameron's failure to connect with the
electorate? The events of the past year, following on from the expenses scandal,
have taken their toll on the Opposition just as much as on the Government. When
sleaze wrecked trust in the Major government, people still had faith in
politics; and the opposition party was seen as a trustworthy alternative to the
Tories. This time, however, voters have lost trust in politics - not just the
Government. And this hurts Mr Cameron just as much as it hurts Mr Brown.

But it is the unappealing nature of the Tory alternative that should really
worry Mr Cameron. For all the husky and hoody hugging of the past four years,
the perception is still of a bunch of out-of-touch rich toffs who would put
their city friends before the protection of front-line public services. While
this is unfair it is ironic that the issue of "image", which Mr Cameron has
spent most of his four-year leadership trying to change, remains his biggest
problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Speaker's 'two terms' ambition is criticised

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 158 words


John Bercow has surprised Conservative MPs by suggesting that he wants to stay
on as Speaker for two more terms.

His election was so controversial among Tories that there were hints that he
might be challenged at the start of the next Parliament. The MP for Buckingham
has strengthened his position since taking over in June, and such talk has
largely disappeared, but Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP who says he will stand
against Mr Bercow at the general election, said the MP was "living in cloud
cuckoo land". In line with tradition, the Conservatives will not put up a
candidate against Mr Bercow in Buckingham, because the Speaker, although now
politically impartial, was elected as a Tory MP. That has left the way clear for
Mr Farage who believes he can exploit anger over the expenses row and the
party's refusal to hold a referendum on the Lisbon treaty.

Mr Bercow had a majority of 18,129 in 2005. UKIP came fourth, collecting just
1,432 votes.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Speaker's 'two terms' ambition is criticised

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 150 words


John Bercow has surprised Conservative MPs by suggesting that he wants to stay
on as Speaker for two more terms.

His election was so controversial among Tories that there were hints that he
might be challenged at the start of the next Parliament. The MP for Buckingham
has strengthened his position since taking over in June, and such talk has
largely disappeared. But Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP who says he will stand
against Mr Bercow at the general election, said that the MP was "living in cloud
cuckoo land". In line with tradition, the Conservatives will not put up a
candidate against Mr Bercow in Buckingham, because the Speaker, although now
politically impartial, was elected as a Tory.

That has left the way clear for Mr Farage who believes he can exploit anger over
MPs expenses and the party's refusal to hold a referendum on the Lisbon treaty.
Mr Bercow had a majority of 18,129 in 2005.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 21, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 515  words


SINCE Boris Johnson has pledged to his wife Marina that he only intends to
remain Mayor of London for one term, is another former Tory heavyweight eyeing
up the post?

Colleagues say ex-Shadow Home Secretary David Davis, pictured, who was raised on
a south London council estate, could be a contender for the job in 2012.

Davis stunned Westminster last year when he quit David Cameron's front bench to
fight a by-election aimed at highlighting the Government's erosion of civil
liberties.

The one-time party leadership contender has long said he would only be
interested in returning to the political limelight with a "proper job".

Interestingly, Davis could end up facing a formidable, ominous opponent if he
decides to stand. Over the weekend it was being reported that Lord Mandelson was
being mooted as a possible Labour candidate for the post.

WITH John Bercow already facing an uncertain future as Commons Speaker, I hear
talk in the Conservative ranks is already turning to his potential successor.

Despite being a Tory MP, Bercow is known to have few friends on the Conservative
parliamentary benches and was ironically handed the historic post on the back of
Labour votes.

Should he even survive a potentially stiff challenge from ex-UK Independence
Party leader Nigel Farage for his Buckingham seat next year, a growing number of
Tories are still determined to see him removed from the Speaker's chair.

I'm now told veteran Conservative Edward Leigh, chairman of the public accounts
committee, is being touted as Bercow's "ideal successor". One colleague
declares: "Edward Leigh oozes natural authority and gravitas.

The same certainly can't be said for the current Speaker."

OBSERVERS couldn't help feeling less than sympathetic for Gordon Brown's veteran
spin doctor Charlie Whelan when he started bleating about the prospect of his
flight from London to the Highlands being cancelled due to snow.

While Whelan was busy moaning on his Twitter page others were quick to point out
that he's also the political officer for the all-powerful union Unite, which has
been behind the threatened British Airways strike disrupting thousands of
travellers' holiday plans.

NO chance of scurvy in Sir Michael Caine's house this Christmas.

The veteran film star, pictured, says: "I grew up during the war so had six
years of nothing for Christmas. I'm trying to make up for the Christmases I
didn't have.

"During the war we used to have an orange and banana for Christmas; that was the
only time we got them in a year. Needless to say, these days the entire house is
smothered in oranges. I'm a Christmas nut."

DESPITE being a judge on new BBC1 show So You Think You Can Dance, Nigel Lythgoe
isn't one to strut his stuff very often.

"Nasty" Nigel, 60, a dancer in his youth and a choreographer for the Young
Generation dance troupe, admits: "It takes an awful lot of alcohol to get me to
dance at parties but I do sing very quickly!"

As for Christmas, Nigel is jetting off to Barbados to spend the festive season
with X Factor supremo Simon Cowell so maybe there's a chance of them hitting the
dance floor together?

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 21, 2009 Monday

Comment & Debate: Dogged Brown can still upset Cameron's enigma variations: The
Tory leader wants to be all things to all people, but can't. If Labour found a
new energy we could see a hung parliament

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 996 words


We are about to see yet another Dave Cameron, it seems, once the Christmas
decorations are put away. After the original smiley Blair-lite Dave, then
frowning bad-news Recession Dave, the Tories are unveiling Optimistic Dave, the
leader who can see light at the end of the tunnel, after all. At times he seems
less like a politician than a weatherman bringing us "storms with sunny
intervals".

Perhaps Cameron is right to assume the reason he hasn't sealed the deal with the
voters yet is that he doesn't radiate enough optimism. But it's more than that:
there is uncertainty about him because he is the great enigma of British
politics. It would be stupid to deny his fleet-footedness. It's breathtaking
that a Tory party whose members were responsible for so many of the memorable
expenses claims managed to come out on top in that scandal. It's partly because
so much of the media had become signed-up Conservative campaigners. But Cameron
moved faster than Gordon Brown, and scooped victory.

Labour has so far failed to nail him. The "toff" line is amusing enough and true
enough but doesn't resonate enough. People are more interested in what
politicians believe and want to do. It's a wry comment on Labour's record on
social mobility that so many Old Etonians are back at the top.

Nor does the next line of attack work better. It's that Cameron is an extreme
Thatcherite, a man thirsting to slash and hack away at the welfare state, and
who really wants to see us out of the European Union entirely. Really? He may be
foolishly hanging on to George Osborne's inheritance tax pledge, probably
because after the U-turn on a European referendum he cannot afford to further
alienate the Tory right. But he does not look or sound extreme. Again, it won't
wash.

Political attacks that work tend to be those firmly rooted in the truth. And the
truth about Cameron is that he is uncertain. He wants to be all things to all
people. He wants to be a modern, liberal, post-Blair Tory, who's also a
traditionalist defender of the family. He wants to be the kind of prime minister
on easy terms with Merkel and Sarkozy; who also rouses those with Ukip
instincts. He wants to move fast against the deficit, without imposing tax
rises; but he also wants to protect public services, showing he's no 1980s-style
Thatcher.

These hopes are incompatible. You can't dance around for ever. Say what you like
about Brown, he has taken some brutal decisions. Some he has got badly wrong:
pensions, gold, the Gurkhas, delaying the election. But others he has got
spectacularly right. The G20 summit was the conclusion of a noble fight against
financial collapse. Without the decisive actions of Brown and Alistair Darling,
advised by hard-working and intelligent civil servants, we might have lost our
banking system. Millions of people could have lost everything, and thousands of
businesses would have collapsed almost overnight.

Yes, we have been left with massive public debt that at worst threatens the
creditworthiness of the country, and at best confronts voters with a decade of
higher taxes and spending cuts. But disaster was avoided. Looking at the
newcomers on the Tory side, with their hedge-fund friends and unwillingness to
offend big business, you wonder how they'd have coped. And if Copenhagen has
been an utter failure, it wasn't for the lack of trying by Brown and Ed
Miliband.

Alongside this, there is a moral about the public and private sectors to be
drawn. Back in the Thatcher years, leading into the Blair era, we developed a
malign consensus that "public" was inefficient and stupid, while "private" was
shrewd, efficient and wise. That's blown.

The much-maligned bureaucrats of Whitehall led the bail-out and rescue of
spendthrift, greedy and inefficient private banks. Elsewhere in the public
sector, the NHS has improved. Schooling continues to struggle; but it struggles
in better buildings. Those community support officers and extra police have made
some British streets feel safer. Our public transport system creaks, but how
well have the private managers of Eurostar and BA been doing lately?

These are truths Labour has been too shell-shocked to articulate clearly. But
Brown, Darling and the rest have had more hatred, jeering and ordure sprayed
over them than almost any politicians I can remember. Their situation has seemed
worse than hopeless. Yet they have somehow kept going. There is a stoic
resilience, a grim doggedness, that I find myself admiring more and more.

Why? Because I keep contrasting it to the hazy, too-clever-by-half image of the
Cameron Conservatives. There are things about Brown I don't like. I can't stand
the bullying, the class politics or the inappropriate boasting about his moral
compass. But in a world of pygmy politics, he still looms and glooms overhead.
Cameron, confronting him, is no Tony Blair. Back in the mid-90s, Blair came
across as someone who might slide easily into any family gathering. You wouldn't
say that about Cameron, and that's why his pre-election poll ratings are nothing
like Blair's in 1997. This election is not yet won or lost.

I still expect the Tories to form a majority government next spring. Public
anger about the financial crisis, or rather its consequences, and dislike of
Brown should let the Conservatives in. But if Labour found some energy, and won
over more of the media, we could see a hung parliament. The surprise winner from
this year's mayhem could turn out to be Nick Clegg, who has tried valiantly, but
failed, to make his voice heard.

We are promised daily announcements from the Conservatives in January - the
election campaign will get under way as soon as MPs return from their break.
There will be month after month for the public to judge which party leader is
most genuine, most trustworthy, or even most optimistic. For the politicians
there is little time left to prepare. Like half-time in a bitterly fought match,
every minute of this holiday will count.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 21, 2009 Monday

Tory tax allies 'subsidised' by the taxpayer: Taxpayers' Alliance accused of
using charitable arm to claim gift aid

BYLINE: Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words


A campaign group which claims to represent the interests of ordinary taxpayers
is using a charitable arm which gives it access to tax relief on donations from
wealthy backers, the Guardian has learned.

The Conservative-linked Taxpayers' Alliance, which campaigns against the misuse
of public funds, has set up a charity under a different name which can secure
subsidies from the taxman worth up to 40% on individuals' donations. In one
example, Midlands businessmen said they channelled funds through the Politics
and Economics Research Trust at the request of the Taxpayers' Alliance after
they asked the campaign group to undertake research into policies which stood to
damage their business interests. The arrangement allowed the Taxpayers' Alliance
to benefit from Gift Aid on the donations, a spokesman for the donors said.

Labour politicians last night attacked the apparent scheme as hypocritical, and
tax accountants warned it could breach charity law, which states that
organisations may not be charitable if they have political purposes.

Regulators at the Charity Commission have opened several assessment cases and
are scrutinising the arrangements.

"The Taxpayers' Alliance appears to be exploiting the taxpayer rather than
protecting their interests as they claim to do," said John Prescott, the former
deputy prime minister. "This body ought not to be subsidised to pursue its
political goals. They have now become properly the non-taxpayers' alliance."

The Taxpayers' Alliance is one of the most influential pressure groups in the
country and has established close links to the Conservative party frontbench. It
campaigns for less waste in government and lower taxes, and earlier this year it
emerged that it is funded by leading Tory donors. It claims to represent "a
grassroots army of 32,000 supporters" but it has also emerged that a director of
the alliance, Alexander Heath, does not pay British tax and lives in France. Its
chief executive, Matthew Elliott, strongly denies the alliance is "a
Conservative front organisation", but it is influential in Conservative circles.
In October the shadow chancellor, George Osborne, proposed a public sector pay
freeze which had been recommended a month earlier by the alliance, and Elliott
proposed that no public worker should earn more than the prime minister without
the chancellor's approval before Osborne announced it.

The Charity Commission's records show the charitable arm was established as the
Taxpayers' Alliance Research Trust in 2007, before changing its name to the
Politics and Economics Research Trust. Elliott is named as its main contact and
the trustees include leading Taxpayers' Alliance supporter Patrick Barbour, the
founder of Reform, a free-market thinktank which advocates lower tax and public
spending. Until he became leader of the UK Independence party last month, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch was also a trustee.

The trust received donations worth £373,230 in 2008 and approved 29 grant
proposals amounting to £278,520 with the stated aim "to advance the education of
the public" and to "promote for the public benefit research into matters of
public taxation, public policy, applied economics and political science".
Unusually for a charitable trust, the accounts do not name the grant recipients.

The Midlands Industrial Council, a powerful business group which has donated
£1.5m to the Conservatives since 2003 and represents the owners of private
companies in the car, haulage, property and construction industries, said it has
donated both through the Taxpayers' Alliance, which as a company does not
attract tax relief on donations, and the Politics and Economics Research Trust,
which does.

"The charitable arm is where specific projects are being researched on specific
topics," said David Wall, the council's secretary. "We donated for work they
were doing predominantly on congestion charging. When there was talk of it
coming to Birmingham, we asked them to look into road charging to see what the
likely effect would be on the haulage industry. We were asked for funding to the
charity which means they can benefit from gift aid. I know that some
industrialists made donations through the charitable arm."

Asked about the impression that the alliance was in effect benefitting from a
subsidy from taxpayers to carry out work funded by rich businessmen, Elliott
declined to comment. "I will talk about the work of the Taxpayers' Alliance, I
will talk about Christmas, but I don't want to talk about this," he said. "We
are confident that our funding arrangements fall within the law and the guidance
of the Charity Commission."

The Charity Commission's guidelines on campaigning and political activity state
that "an organisation will not be charitable if its purposes are political". It
states that trustees must not allow the charity to be used as a vehicle for the
expression of the political views of any individual trustee or staff member.

A leading tax accountant said it was extraordinary that the alliance appeared to
be benefitting from charitable tax relief. "Donors are typically saving tax on
their contributions and so the government is chipping in between 20% and 40% to
help the Taxpayers' Alliance with its work," said Mike Warburton, a tax
specialist at Grant Thornton. "Your readers may be surprised that an
organisation which argues for lower taxes and lower public spending is asking
the government to do that for its research arm."

The Charity Commission has opened several "assessment cases" prior to a possible
investigation.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 21, 2009 Monday

Feature: Climate change - Addicts taking us to the abyss;
Derek Wall warns that if the oil junkies have their way we're all going to Hell

LENGTH: 1022 words


There is a moment in Malcolm Lowry's novel Under The Volcano that reminds me of
climate change sceptics.

Doomed alcoholic Geoffrey Firmin is on a journey towards death but he insists to
his estranged wife Yvonne and brother that he can drink a beer or two because
beer isn't really alcohol.

For an alcoholic any excuse will do - even one as weak as the notion that
alcohol isn't really alcoholic.

For climate sceptics any excuse is enough to keep on the oil they are addicted
to.

The sceptics, like all addicts, resort to the lamest arguments to deny that
there might be a problem.

For the right, climate denial is increasingly a matter of faith. Listening to
scientists could be an indication of dangerous socialist inclinations.

Tory David Cameron likes to be seen cycling, albeit with the chauffeur carrying
his bags, but climate denial is increasingly dominant in the Conservative Party.

Thatcher's former chancellor Lord Lawson is perhaps the best-known sceptic, but
many of the most prominent Tory bloggers, such as Iain Dale, also reject the
science of global warming.

I suspect that climate scepticism is virtually a membership requirement for
UKIP. For the far-right, suspicion of scientists is nearly as popular as
suspicion of Europeans and migrants.

Yet the facts of climate change are in essence very simple.

C02 in the atmosphere traps heat and leads to warming, temperatures are rising
and this correlates with the highest CO2 for thousands of years. Thousands of
peer-reviewed papers from scientists have established this link.

The arguments posed by the sceptics often lack logic.

David Bellamy, who seems to be an estranged BBC nature correspondent but at
least has a scientific background, argues that CO2 is vital to life and is not a
pollutant.

And? Water is vital to life and is not a pollutant but in large enough
quantities it leads to drowning. CO2 in the atmosphere likewise alters the
weather.

I once listened to Tory rightwinger Lord Monckton argue that the climate in the
past had changed, suggesting that this refuted the role of "man-made" global
warming. It is true that temperatures in the past have changed and a range of
factors have been responsible, but saying that there are other causes of climate
change does not refute the role of CO2.

The creation of huge stores of fossil fuel in the form of coal and oil has made
our planet habitable for animal life.

Millions of years of geological activity have taken CO2 from the atmosphere,
making the atmosphere breathable for mammals and temperate.

Yet in a matter of decades we are burning fossils that have taken millions of
years to be laid down. This has potentially catastrophic results.

The sceptics have been funded by the multibillion-dollar coal and oil companies.
Indeed scientists have been under huge pressure to deny the reality of climate
change, particularly in the US during the Bush years.

It is important to follow the money trail, but listening to their arguments to
see if they hold true is far more valuable when testing the relevance of climate
sceptics.

A close examination of the sceptics' argument is extremely instructive. It
reveals not a theory backed by evidence, let alone peer-reviewed papers, but a
set of paradoxical claims.

Any argument will apparently do. And the sceptics seem to disagree with each
other more than with the scientific mainstream.

Professor Stefan Rahmstorf, from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research, notes that sceptics can be divided into at least three different and
largely contradictory species.

Trend sceptics deny that temperatures are rising. They argue that climate data
is collected in cities where human activity artificially raises temperatures,
climate change is an artefact of flawed data collection. However weather
balloons are just one control that prove this to be false.

The fast-disappearing trend sceptics argue when presented with data that the
scientists concerned are part of a conspiracy and lie.

Then there are attribution sceptics, who argue that warming is occurring but
isn't caused by emissions. Sunspots are a favourite theory, while Piers Corbyn,
the meteorologist brother of left Labour MP Jeremy, has a magnetic theory of
climate change.

But such theories are contradicted by scientific data which provides both a
model of the greenhouse effect and solid data showing that CO2 is rising with
temperatures.

Last are the impact sceptics, who don't deny rising temperatures or reject the
link with C02 emissions but say that warmer temperatures are beneficial.

The published statements of the sceptics are full of spin and internal
contradiction. It is instructive to reflect that sceptics stole 10 years of
emails from climate researchers at the University of East Anglia and dug out one
or two suspect statements about tree-ring data.

Scientists are imperfect and science, especially the science of climate change,
is uncertain. Science is rarely immune from social influences, but scientific
revolutions are propelled by data and the construction of testable alternatives.
The sceptics are certainly not using the data to construct an alternative
theory.

They are killing us with their words and slowing effective action on climate
change. Now they are moving on to a new argument - that it is too late to act
and humanity should do nothing.

Ending the oil addiction requires that we introduce a green new deal to create
clean energy and to take sensible steps to create an economy that works with
rather than against nature.

Sadly the current framework of global climate policy does not provide an
alternative. Its model based on carbon trading has so far failed to cut
emissions.

The most destructive effect of the climate sceptics has been to throw a huge
cloud of dust over the science of climate change. This has distracted us from
the real debate that is required - how to replace the current global framework
with policies that actually work to reduce emissions.

In Lowry's cult masterpiece, the alcoholic Firmin ends up quite literally in the
abyss. The oil-addicted sceptics are taking humanity in the same direction.

- Derek Wall is a former principal speaker of the Green Party.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               December 20, 2009
                                 First Edition

Choose your weapon;
Politicians are used to verbal abuse, but sometimes, as Italy's Prime Minister
discovered last week, they attract stronger protests. Rebecca Buchan reports

BYLINE: Rebecca Buchan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 912 words


That the controversial Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, should be
struck at a public rally was, perhaps, no great surprise. That the missile which
did the damage should be a small replica of Milan's cathedral - leaving him with
a broken nose and a Christmas wish for two new front teeth - is an unpleasant
departure from the usual weapons of choice.

Echoing the traditional means of punishing petty criminals bound in the stocks,
the pelting of politicians with rotten fruit, eggs and vegetables has a long
history. More recent missiles have included custard pies and stress balls. Most
peltings render the high-profile target too shocked to respond. Others,
famously, are provoked to furious retaliation: in 2001, John Prescott, a former
boxer, hit back at a protester who egged him. Pictures of the ensuing brawl went
around the world - and did the reputation of the then Deputy Prime Minister
little harm.

Mr Berlusconi, 73, left hospital after four days of treatment and was taken to
his villa near Milan. He is now under strict instructions to rest for at least
two weeks, and doctors have said his injuries are causing him significant pain.
Sales, meanwhile, of the Duomo di Milano statuette used in the attack were
reported to have increased markedly.

Fortunately, assaults by the disgruntled on public figures are designed chiefly
to humiliate and usually lead to nothing worse than a bruised ego. Cathedral
replicas aside, here are 10 notorious weapons used in such protests, which, of
course, the IoS does not condone.

Custard pie

Phil Woolas

Normally propelled at clowns in the circus, this unexpected dessert failed to
amuse the immigration minister when he was in the line of fire last year during
a visit to the University of Manchester. The assault happened a week after
Woolas made controversial remarks about curbing the number of immigrants allowed
to enter Britain.

Eggs

Nick Griffin

A primary weapon of choice for pelting politicians: small, light and messy, they
can be hurled from some distance and create havoc on impact. The BNP leader,
Nick Griffin, and his colleague Andrew Brons, freshly elected to the European
Parliament, were forced to abandon a press conference outside the House of
Commons after receiving a splattering.

Green custard

Peter Mandelson

Lumpy, sticky, and difficult to pick out of your hair, this leaves the target
humiliated and, in this case, facing questions about his ability to distinguish
between guacamole and mushy peas. Leila Deen, a member of the anti-aviation
campaign group Plane Stupid, scored a splattery bull's-eye on Lord Mandelson in
March this year. The First Secretary of State, Secretary of State for Business,
Innovation and Skills, President of the Board of Trade and Lord President of the
Council, took it on the chin, quite literally, and shrugged off the incident.

Energy drink

Stephen Byers

Has the added advantage of coating the target in sweet, sticky liquid;
irresistible to flying insects in the summer months. The former cabinet minister
got an unasked-for energy boost while at his local surgery in July after it was
revealed that he had claimed more than £125,000 in second-home expenses for a
London flat owned by his partner, where he lives rent-free.

Farm slurry

Robert Kilroy-Silk

Hit your target with this and no one will be able to come within two feet of the
victim without being overcome by a repulsive stench guaranteed to last for days.
Kilroy-Silk was drenched in farm slurry on his way to a BBC radio show in 2004.
The protester emerged from behind a bush and attacked the UK Independence Party
member after he made intemperate remarks about Arabs, whom he had described as
"suicide bombers" earlier that year.

Porridge

Jeffrey Archer Lumpy, sticky, easy to get hold of and works just as effectively
hot or cold. Archer was reminded all too uncomfortably of his time behind bars
when he was pelted with porridge as he arrived for a charity function in
Manchester in 2005.

Flour (with purple colouring)

Tony Blair

Messy; requires effort and imagination, but almost certainly guaranteed to
blanket the target at close range. Two Fathers 4 Justice campaigners disrupted
proceedings and caused chaos in the chamber at the House of Commons in 2004 - at
the height of a public panic about anthrax attacks - by hurling condoms full of
flour and purple paint at Tony Blair.

Shoes

George Bush

Easy to smuggle into high-security meetings, and if you miss the first time you
have a back-up weapon. The then US President had a close escape after shoes were
thrown at him in Iraq in December 2008. His attacker, Muntadar al-Zaidi, was
tackled by security but not before he managed to fire a pair of salvos at Dubya,
only marginally missing his head.

Ink

Edward Heath

A little goes a long way and lasts an awfully long time; particularly effective
on tailored shirts and Savile Row suits. In 1972, the then Prime Minister had a
pot of ink emptied into his face by a disgruntled female protester while en
route to a signing ceremony in Brussels to mark the UK's accession to the
European Economic Community (later the European Union).

Stress ball

George Galloway

If you have a good aim and a target in an open-top bus, this can step over the
line from merely humiliating your subject to causing real harm. Galloway, the
ex-Labour MP famous for his alleged association with Saddam Hussein and affinity
with cats, was rendered unconscious by an angry office worker who relieved his
stress by unleashing the rubberoid ball.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 20, 2009

Shifting lead rests on solid foundations

BYLINE: Sir Robert Worcester

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 548 words


"What's going on? The polls seem all over the place. One says a lead of 6% and
another a lead of 17%." A swing of 5.5% in one month seems implausible. But all
that happened was that five or six people out of a hundred changed their minds.

Part of the answer is "events, dear boy, events". Alistair Darling's pre-budget
report on 9 December was not just an event, it was a big event.

A second part of the answer can be found in the media's fixation on making the
poll lead the headline of the news story. Nine of the last 10 polls show the
Conservatives at or over the 40% level, where they have been since July. Three
leads were 17%, three below 10%. Not one varied in the Tory share by more than
3% from the 40% average.

Third, they all weight their raw data in various ways. If you could see to
compare the raw data, you'd know the impact of their adjustments. All pollsters
except BPIX have detailed explanations on their websites, although some are more
transparent than others.

A fourth explanation is that what the media really want are polls to forecast
the outcome of an election six months or more ahead of polling day, but none of
us reads tea leaves.

Currently the Conservatives are on 43%, while 26% say they would be voting for
Labour if the election were held tomorrow, and 20% say they would vote for the
Liberal Democrats, 4% for UKIP, 2% for the BNP, 3% for the Greens and 2% for
others.

Economic optimism declined sharply after the PBR - from 46% of respondents
saying they felt optimistic to 32%. Last month 41% of the youngest third of the
electorate expected an upturn, and it was the same this month. But among those
55 and over there has been a 20-point drop, from 50% to 30%.

This is a vitally important finding to all the parties, for the over-55s have
four times the voting power of the young. Other big drops came among men (-18),
the working class, and in the Midlands. Those on a mortgage fell by nearly half,
from 50% optimists to 27%.

Satisfaction levels with Gordon Brown fell by 10 points, to just 28%, and the
government by 10 points, to 21%.

Turnout is another key to the next election. Labour has to motivate its
supporters to have a chance. No election from 1945 to 1997saw a turnout under
70%. Yet in 2001 only 59% of electors in Great Britain voted. In 2005 the figure
was 61%. Even a turnout of 60% would require a massive increase in a relatively
apathetic Labour base.

While a turnout of just 50% would return a Tory majority of over 100, a 78%
turnout would see a Labour majority of about 25. At about 60%, a 40% Tory vote,
30% for Labour, and 20% for the Lib Dems, with 10% others, would give the
Conservatives a majority of about 20 seats over all other parties.

Is fear of Cameron and Osborne enough to energise Labour reluctants?

Whatever, last month's poll findings certainly put the frighteners into the
Tories, hope into Labour's minds, and heart into the fond hope of the Liberal
Democrats that they could hold the balance of power in a hung parliament.
Post-PBR it seems that, without a massive and effective effort from Labour,
Cameron is on course for No 10. But a week, never mind a month, is a long time
in politics.

Sir Robert Worcester is founder of MORI. His latest book is "Explaining Labour's
Landslip". For further details go to ipsos-mori.com.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 20, 2009

National: ANALYSIS BY BOB WORCESTER OF IPSOS MORI: Fluctuating fortunes behind
the polls

BYLINE: Sir Robert Worcester

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 538 words


"What's going on? The polls seem all over the place. One says a lead of 6% and
another a lead of 17%." A swing of 5.5% in one month seems implausible. But all
that happened was that five or six people out of a hundred changed their minds.

Part of the answer is "events, dear boy, events". Alistair Darling's pre-budget
report on 9 December was not just an event, it was a big event.

A second part of the answer can be found in the media's fixation on making the
poll lead the headline of the news story. Nine of the past 10 polls show the
Conservatives at or over the 40% level, where they have been since July. Three
leads were 17%, three below 10%. Not one varied in the Tory share by more than
3% from the 40% average.

Third, they all weight their raw data in various ways. If you could see to
compare the raw data, you'd know the impact of their adjustments. All pollsters
except BPIX have detailed explanations on their websites, although some are more
transparent than others.

A fourth explanation is that what the media really want are polls to forecast
the outcome of an election six months or more ahead of polling day, but none of
us reads tea leaves.

Currently the Tories are on 43%, while 26% say they would vote Labour if the
election were tomorrow, and 20% say they would vote Liberal Democrat, 4% for
UKIP, 2% for the BNP, 3% for the Greens and 2% for others.

Economic optimism declined sharply after the PBR - from 46% of respondents
saying they felt optimistic to 32%. Last month 41% of the youngest third of the
electorate expected an upturn, and it was the same this month. But among those
55 and over there has been a drop from 50% to 30%.

This is a vitally important finding to all the parties, for the over-55s have
four times the voting power of the young - there are twice as many of them and
they are twice as likely to vote. Other big drops came among men (18% down), the
working class and in the Midlands. Those with a mortgage fell by nearly half,
from 50% to 27%.

Satisfaction levels with Gordon Brown fell by 10 points, to just 28%, and the
government by 10 points, to 21%.

Turnout is another key to the next election. Labour has to motivate its
supporters to have a chance. No election from 1945 to 1997 saw a turnout under
70%. Yet in 2001 only 59% of electors in Britain voted. In 2005 the figure was
61%. Even a turnout of 60% would require a massive increase in a relatively
apathetic Labour base.

While a turnout of 50% would return a Tory majority of over 100, a 78% turnout
would see a Labour majority of about 25. At about 60%, a 40% Tory vote, 30% for
Labour and 20% for the Lib Dems, with 10% others, would give the Conservatives a
majority of about 20 seats over all other parties.

Is fear of David Cameron and George Osborne enough to energise Labour
reluctants? Whatever, last month's poll findings certainly put fear into the
Tories, hope into Labour and heart into the fond hope of the Lib Dems that they
could hold the balance in a hung parliament.

Post-PBR it seems that Cameron is on course for No 10. But a week, never mind a
month, is a long time in politics.

Sir Robert Worcester is founder of MORI. His latest book is "Explaining Labour's
Landslip". For further details go to ipsos-mori.com.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

MEPs given extra pounds 32,000 allowance on top of pay rise

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 258  words


MEPs are to get an extra  pounds 32,000 a year - phased in over two years - to
spend on staff to help them implement the European Union's Lisbon Treaty. It
will take the total annual allowance for each MEP to  pounds 220,000 by 2011.

The European Parliament was forced to clean up the rules over the payment of
staffing expenses last February after instances of MEPs misusing the allowance.

However, an internal document seen by The Daily Telegraph yesterday proposed a
nine per cent increase in the parliamentary assistance allowance "following the
entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty''. "With more power comes more work,''
said a parliament official.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and a member of the European Parliament's budgetary
control committee, described the extra payment as "disgraceful''.

She said: "When the political class is held in such contempt to be awarding
themselves extra money is incomprehensible.''

MEPs can use the extra cash to employ extra staff or increase the salaries of
existing assistants. At least 17 British MEPs who returned to the parliament
following elections last June use a loophole, known as la clause Anglaise, to
pay close relatives from the allowances. The boost to staffing payments will
come on top of a proposed pay increase taking the annual salary of an MEP to
almost  pounds 86,000.

As well as staff allowances, MEPs receive a "general expenditure allowance'' of
more than  pounds 44,000, plus subsistence payments while working in Brussels or
Strasbourg that add up to another  pounds 40,000 tax-free.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 17, 2009 Thursday

Diary: Why fear Ahmadinejad and Iran's nuclear plans. Isn't there enough to
worry about here?

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 649 words


How to react to this motion, laid before the Scottish parliament and calling on
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency "to fully investigate the
circumstances surrounding the reappearance of part of the 170kg of enriched
uranium that was first reported as being lost and then reported as an
accountancy error in that the material was not missing but never existed in the
first place". And further calling "for those in authority who are responsible
for public announcements on decommissioning at Dounreay to stop spinning stories
after the fact that infer that highly enriched uranium, which is not accounted
for nor can be found, is in any event safe". How to react? OMG! Race you to the
shelter.

After a difficult year, the 84,000 staff of Jobcentre Plus were really looking
forward to a break. On any evaluation, they deserved it. Why last month, in a
civil service competition, they took top prize as team of the year. After the
glory comes the reward, and in their case it is to be told that the half day of
flexitime credits - a present of time off in lieu they have traditionally been
awarded around this time for the past 30 years - is being withdrawn, even though
other staff in the Department of Work and Pensions and elsewhere will still
benefit. Season's greetings. Well done. Now bugger off back to work.

It's rough out there. This, contained within a delightful Christmas tree design,
is the seasonal message on our card from the UK Border Agency. "We have a
tougher enforcement regime within the UK deporting a record number of foreign
national prisoners. We are committed to implementing fast and fair decisions. We
have introduced ID cards for foreign nationals. The points-based system is
controlling the flow of migration into the UK. We are enforcing tough penalties
on those employing illegal immigrants." As for the baby Jesus? Try Yarl's Wood.

Yes it's rough, really rough. Volatile too. And here we have in mind the
designer of Duncan Hamilton's celebrated biography of Harold Larwood. Hats off
to him. Hats off to her. Deservedly, the book was selected a few weeks back for
the William Hill Sports Book of the Year award. And the organisers, while
recognising Hamilton as a master wordsmith (it was his second win in three
years), thought the designer should have some recognition; the presentation of a
frame of the cover plus a £1,000 cheque and a £500 free bet. She did her bit.
Why not? But there's a problem, the publishers told them. We have made her
redundant. Give us her prize. We'll pass it on.

Our item about Viscount Monckton (pictured), former Thatcherite adviser, now
chief climate debunker for the force that is Ukip, provokes reminiscence about
his days as a scribbler at the Yorkshire Post. He would arrive on occasion
riding a push-bike and wearing a straw boater. Even then, he had presence. And
he very obviously had breeding. For one evening, as he toiled in a junior
capacity, he was instructed by the newsdesk to ring the Earl of Harewood, the
Queen's cousin, who resides at Harewood House, a few miles outside Leeds, and
seek a comment on a story. "I can't possibly do that," said Monckton, aghast.
"He'll be dressing for dinner." Newsdesks. They know nothing.

Finally, it occurs that some time ago we asked for all new modern proverbs, and
made grandiose promises of champagne for the best, and so we must make good on
that. So many tilted towards the brutal. "You can never do enough for a good
boss - so when you find one, shoot him before he turns bad," being one sad
example. But John Smith, of Sheffield, seemed to capture the difficulties that
bedevil the NHS and the financial markets, not to mention the war on terror,
with the observation that: "You can't make an omelette without breaking an egg
but you can break an egg and still not make an omelette." We didn't expect
things to get that deep. He is a worthy winner.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

ZAC GOLDSMITH, WOULD-BE MP, GIVES 6264,000 TO HIS LOCAL PARTY

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 628 words


TORY candidate Zac Goldsmith is under investigation after spending more of his
own money than any previous candidate in an attempt to become an MP.

Mr Goldsmith, an adviser on green issues to David Cameron, has donated 6264,000
to his local party since 2007, according to figures released yesterday.

It follows a confession by Mr Goldsmith last week that some of his 6300million
fortune is kept offshore, avoiding full UK tax.

Fresh revelations about the Old Etonian's finances will cause more embarrassment
to the Tory leader, who is fighting to shake off claims, stoked by Labour in the
run up to the general election, that his is a party of 'toffs'.

Two of Mr Goldsmith's donations were apparently illegal since they came during a
month when his name was not on the electoral roll. These are being investigated
by the Electoral Commission, which regulates the electoral system.

Mr Goldsmith, 34, who inherited his fortune from his billionaire father Sir
James Goldsmith, moved from Chelsea to Richmond in Surrey, so he could live in
the constituency, which he is hoping to grab from the Liberal Democrats.

The money went to the Richmond Park Conservative Association. Mr Goldsmith has
established an office devoted to overturning the 3,500 majority of sitting MP
Susan Kramer.

There is nothing wrong with MPs or candidates donating money to a local party,
but the sums involved are unusually large. Once the election is called
candidates will be limited to spending around 612,000.

More troublingly for the Tories, Mr Goldsmith gave a cash donation of 6300 and a
non- cash donation of 67,089.98 on December 31, 2007 while he was not registered
on the electoral roll at either his old or new home.

His house move came at a time when Mr Goldsmith had apparently begun a close
friendship with his sister-in-law Alice Rothschild. He confirmed in August that
he had separated from his wife Scheherezade, with whom he has three young
children.

Electoral Commission officials said yesterday that they are prepared to take
action against the Tories to recover the donations.

A spokesman said the watchdog is waiting for a similar case against the UK
Independence Party to go through the courts before taking up the case against Mr
Goldsmith. A spokesman said: 'Zac Goldsmith wasn't on the register for one
month.

'Where there is an impermissible donation, the party concerned has 30 days to
check that the donor is on the electoral register. If they accept it, or it goes
past 30 days, we can seek forfeiture of the sum.'

UKIP lost a High Court hearing on its donation in October but has appealed to
the Supreme Court. Cash returned goes to the Treasury, rather than back to the
donor.

Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Lord Oakeshott said: 'Zac Goldsmith seems to
think he can buy a seat in Parliament as if he were punting on a roulette wheel
- 6250,000 is 63.50 and counting for every voter in Richmond Park.'

A Tory spokesman said the party would wait to see the outcome of the UKIP case
'and take it from there'. It is likely to return the two donations if the court
rules in favour of the Electoral Commission.

Last week, Mr Goldsmith said he has been 'non-domiciled' for tax on income from
a 6 300million family trust.

But in a letter to local Tories, he said he pays full tax on his UK income.

He added: 'I do not believe family wealth accords any entitlement whatsoever in
democratic politics. But nor do I believe it should be a barrier to my
continuing to work for the things we all believe in.'

Mr Cameron yesterday published an amendment he intends to table to
Constitutional Renewal Bill, which would make it illegal for MPs and peers to
sit in Parliament unless they are domiciled for tax or resident in the UK. Mr
Goldsmith says he had already decided to change his tax status.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

Remember, Mr Cameron - it isn't only Labour that has a core vote;
The party of enterprise is offering nothing to aspirational average earners,
argues;
Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1185  words


Politics is full of puzzles. I have been trying to solve one ever since Alistair
Darling sat down last Wednesday, after his comically inadequate pre-Budget
report. Why is it deemed politically acceptable for Labour to suck up to and
bribe its core vote, but not for the Conservative Party to do the same to its
own?

Execration has been heaped on Mr Darling for his pitiful performance, and I see
no reason not to heap on a little more. Let us recall the facts. Our country is
in its worst economic crisis since the early 1930s. We have a level of debt and
of deficit higher in real terms than at any time since the war. Mr Darling's
response was to promise to spend more, and to tax wealth- creators more highly.
The economic insanity of this has been widely noted. We shall obtain a recovery
by doing two things in particular: cutting spending, and reducing taxation to
stimulate consumption and enterprise. Mr Darling took the opposite course. The
signpost that reads "Hell'' is clearly visible from the road he is taking.

Nothing, one would have thought, could be easier for an opposition party than to
oppose this idiocy. Perhaps that is what George Osborne, the shadow chancellor,
thinks he has been doing since Mr Darling's belly-flop. I fear he is wrong. He
reminds one of the small child who sits in the front seat of a bus and moves his
arms in the motion of a steering wheel, because he thinks he is driving the
vehicle. Or let us glide between metaphors, and look at it another way. Mr
Osborne certainly threw stones at the Chancellor and the Government; but it is
far from clear that he broke any windows. That job was left, almost exclusively,
to the press, which in economic matters has become the only remotely effective
opposition in this country.

One is so used to Mr Osborne's performing dismally in the Commons that one
barely shrugged one's shoulders at last week's effort. Then, however, and having
had four days to think about it, he appeared on television on Sunday to eructate
further. Indeed, in one respect he was worse. Asked what he thought about the
tax on bankers' bonuses, he answered that he would wait and see whether the tax
was effective.

The tax certainly will be effective in one respect: bankers will take
themselves, their companies, their purchasing power, their contribution to the
Treasury and quite possibly the jobs of many of their staff to Geneva, or
Singapore, or anywhere else where wealth creation is not regarded as an activity
on a par with drug dealing or child molesting. One might have thought that such
a loss of revenue generation would be frightening to the party of business and
enterprise, but one would be wrong.

Yet this is a minor point. The core vote is not just a few very rich people, for
whom a bonus is not whether or not they can take their wife and children out for
a decent dinner, but whether they can buy a chalet in Verbier.

The core vote is people on average incomes or just above, who have the
aspiration to earn more, and who want to strive and take risks in order to do
so. Mr Osborne will argue that his party's opposition to the proposed increase
in National Insurance contributions is precisely aimed at helping such people,
and he would be right. Yet that is but a fleabite on the ugly dog of
disincentive that smothers our recovery.

Such people want more disposable income. They need more stimulus to work harder,
do overtime, take on extra responsibilities and, in certain cases, take
financial risks. They need this not just for their own sakes but for the
country's. We need profit for the very simple reason that you don't tax a loss.
The Tories see, or should see, that Mr Darling's entire strategy is about
milking a shrinking productive sector to propitiate his party's client groups.
But do the Tories enunciate a clear alternative that will benefit not merely
their clients, but also the country? Not yet.

More to the point, it is not just that Mr Osborne seems to have no clear plans
to share with the electorate about how he will mastermind our recovery. He also
talks about economics in a way that shows he simply doesn't understand it. There
is a noble tradition of this among Chancellors of the Exchequer. However, if he
really wants to be lumped in with such giants of the profession as Tony Barber
and Reggie Maudling, he would seem to be even less aspirational than we gave him
credit for.

I have written before of my dread I feel at the prospect of one so economically
and financially illiterate as Mr Osborne assuming responsibility for the
nation's money. His conduct over the past week has only exacerbated my gloom.
Economic logic and patriotic duty do not drive his approach any more than they
do Mr Darling's. He seems, indeed, as resolute as the Chancellor is to appeal to
Labour's core vote rather than his own. Since there is a knee-jerk opinion in
the country that we should bash bankers, he makes a point of not objecting when
Labour bashes them.

But then he is the man who never raised a finger against Labour's economic
policies until, to his shock and consternation, Northern Rock started to
disappear down the lavatory; instead he talked mindlessly of "sharing the
proceeds of growth'' long after other rational beings had realised that there
wouldn't be any growth, and that higher public spending was the last thing the
economy needed.

Labour confidently expects to make mincemeat of Mr Osborne in an election
campaign. They know that neither he, nor his boss, grasps the fundamentals. They
know that the few people in the Tory party who see what has to be done - John
Redwood and Michael Fallon, say - are in outer darkness, mainly for the sin of
being cleverer than the amateurs in charge. Given what a disaster Labour has
created, that the party should have any hope of putting up a decent economic
argument during an election campaign is stunningly appalling: and the worst
indictment imaginable of the Tory party.

The Tories should be 20 points ahead in the polls, rather than having a
single-digit lead that causes, understandably, talk of a hung parliament. It is
because they lack clarity, and lack appeal to those who are fundamentally
conservative, that they struggle. Hard-working people want the state to
contract. They want big public spending cuts. They want the public sector to
endure the same pain as the private. They want to see tax cuts, to make their
own jobs safer by reversing the tide of shrinking demand. They understand that
the economy must be restructured. They hear very little of this from the
Conservative Party. As a result, many of them do not propose to vote, or will
support a "proper'' conservative party such as Ukip.

Rather than worrying about Labour voters, and giving them Labour policies to
vote for, the Tories should be getting their own supporters motivated to go to
the polling stations. The promise of a radical economic restructuring would help
to do that, but there is no sign. So I ask again: why is it that it is deemed
politically acceptable for Labour to suck up to and bribe its core vote, but not
for the Conservative Party to do the same to its own?

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 499  words


FOLLOWING Simon Cowell's revelation that he is thinking about an X Factor-style
political show with prime-time debates ahead of the next general election, I
sense growing paranoia in Labour ranks that he might be no friend of their
party's cause.

Former transport minister Tom Harris recalls one encounter with the pop music
supremo. "Since there's been speculation about his political views, I thought I
might as well add my own observations, " says the Labour MP on his blog.

"Cowell asked me once what my job was and which party I represented. When I told
him one of his young female companions cheered, 'Yay!' At which point he
sneered:

'What do you mean, 'yay'?'" Oh dear.

WITH his future in his new post under threat as he faces the challenge of former
UKIP leader Nigel Farage in his Buckingham seat at the general election, Speaker
and previously Tory MP John Bercow, below, chooses now to confess his
shortcomings.

Despite winning his office courtesy of Labour votes earlier this year, Bercow
served as a shadow minister under Michael Howard and then Iain Duncan Smith.

"If I'm brutally candid about it (although I don't think I'm devoid of ability)
I was a pretty lousy frontbencher, " he tells the TotalPolitics website.

Such self-effacement.

Then again, most parliamentarians seem to think Bercow has plenty to be modest
about.

WHILE John Prescott eagerly anticipates his cameo in the popular BBC sitcom
Gavin and Stacey, some Labour colleagues fear the worst.

The former deputy prime minister is due to make an appearance in the comedy as
an "old flame" of leading character Nessa.

After bumping into Prescott in the House of Commons Strangers' Bar and
discussing his showbiz break, Newport West MP Paul Flynn reports: "I got the
impression he doesn't fully understand what he's getting himself into."

Isn't that a lucid summing up of the old blunderer's entire political career?

PLAYING the world-weary and introspective Swedish detective Wallander is getting
to Kenneth Branagh.

Talking about a new series on BBC1 next month, he tells Reader's Digest: "I
understand the frustration of realising that although you've reached this
advanced age, you're probably not going to end up as the wise old Methuselah man
that you imagined.

"You still feel like the pillock you were at 16. Then you look in the mirror and
this old git is staring back at you."

Elsewhere in the interview he talks about how "mortality, which was just
starting to leave a faintly audible message on your spiritual answer phone at
35, is now ringing fairly regularly."

Ken, you're only 48. Steady on.

RAB C NESBITT, pictured, recalls his worst New Year resolution in the latest
issue of Saga magazine, ahead of a new BBC2 series in January.

"One New Year's Day I bounded into the bedroom naked, save for a Santa hat and
promised in future to make love to my wife three times a week.

"The emergency plumber replied: 'That's great news.

" 'I'll let her know when she comes back from the shops - I'm just fixing the
leak in this radiator.'"

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

G2: Rat on a sinking ship Time to face my own Iraq inquiry

BYLINE: Ron Scuttle, MP

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 349 words


Nestyn, Sunday pm. Back early from the carol service. Or "lights of peace
celebration", as the vicar calls it, so's not to offend any member of the
Taliban who might want to drop in. Offending your local MP is a different
matter. Perfectly OK for the vicar to refuse to shake my hand for the sign of
peace, just after he's embraced the nutter from Ukip. Since when did the
established church become the official opposition?

Today, just in case I fail to notice my non-invitation to after-service sherry,
there's a collection for "Iraq's abandoned orphans", a sermon on expenses, a
highlighter pen through "hush the noise, ye men of strife" and a photo of Dr
Kelly on the order of service: "Lest we forget." Not bloody likely. Not when the
Afghan-themed crib has a bomb crater for a manger. Even the Gazette's girl
reporter thinks she's serving on the Chilcot inquiry. She's meant to be asking
me about my favourite carol. So one minute I'm talking about peace on effing
earth, the next she's going, "Why did you vote for an illegal war, Ron?"

Incredible. For the first time in my life I hear myself quoting Prescott. "I do
wonder," I lie, "how did I go along with it?" Girl reporter looks unimpressed.
So I throw in a bit of Ainsworth. "I supported the war in Iraq based on the
arguments that were put at the time." I also had a fluey cold, I tell her, with
a touch of toothache. If I'd had the slightest suspicion that Bliar (!) was a
deceiving sycophant I would have quit rather than participate in such an act of
international aggression. Though not before I'd made a historic resignation
speech from the back benches, saying something like, "Iraq probably has no
weapons of mass destruction in the commonly understood sense of the term," and,
"On Iraq, I believe that the prevailing mood of the British people is sound."

Best be on the safe side. Actually, I say, I've heard someone did mention
something along those lines. "But the member in question was so short, with such
a squeaky voice, that no one could hear him. Especially not me, with my sinus
trouble. What was his name?"

Ron Scuttle, MP

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 14, 2009 Monday

BERCOW'S CALL FOR AN UNELECTED NEW SEAT

LENGTH: 298 words


SPEAKER John Bercow wants to be moved to a 'virtual' Commons seat so he will not
face voters at the next election.

This would allow him to stay as long as he wanted as Speaker, with only MPs able
to unseat him.

While convention dictates that opposition parties do not stand against the
Speaker at elections, there are claims Mr Bercow will face a stiff challenge to
keep his Buckingham seat next year.

The former UKIP leader Nigel Farage plans to oppose him and Mr Bercow could lose
his 18,000 majority if local Conservatives, many of whom he has alienated,
refuse to support him.

The Speaker told Total Politics magazine that he had proposed a virtual seat,
called St Stephen's after the Commons chapel.

He would take up this ' constituency', while voters in his old seat would elect
a new MP.

In the same interview, Mr Bercow also defended the 620,000 refurbishment of his
official Speaker's apartment.

He said he had spent 66,764.30 of taxpayers' money on a new sofa suite because
the old one was 'massively uncomfortable'.

Of his plan for a new seat, he said: 'The House of Commons can always decide
that if it wants. My attitude is that, as such a decision would affect me
directly, it's not right for me to be either an advocate of it or resistant to
it.'

But Mr Farage said the plan demonstrated the ' bumptiousness and arrogance of
the man that is not endearing'. 'He should stand and face the music,' he said.
'I think it's too late to set up a new constituency anyway.'

Mr Farage said he would be helped in his challenge by the news that Mr Bercow's
wife, Sally, has been fast-tracked on to a list of prospective parliamentary
candidates for Labour.

Tory backbenchers are particularly angry with Mrs Bercow after she told an
interviewerthat Tory leader David Cameron was 'a merchant of spin'.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 14, 2009 Monday

pounds 6m for phantom MEPs of Brussels

BYLINE: Martin Banks in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 481  words


EIGHTEEN new MEPs whose seats were created by the Lisbon Treaty will receive
full pay, perks and an allowance worth an annual  pounds 300,000 each despite
being unable to start work for up to four years.

The "phantom'' group, from 12 countries, including one MEP from Britain, will
have no powers but will be entitled to draw staff and office allowances and,
possibly, full salaries at an annual cost of more than  pounds 6 million.

The group, who will initially have "observer'' status, will also be entitled to
tax-free allowances of  pounds 255 for every day of their limbo existence in
Brussels and can claim back business class travel. The treaty, which increased
the number of MEPs to 754, came into force on Dec 1. However, each member state
has to ratify an additional legal protocol before the new MEPs can start work.

A European Parliament source said that ratification process could take between
two to four years.

A source in the EU's current Swedish presidency said it had been proposed that
the MEPs be put on full pay in the New Year.

MEPs earn  pounds 81,745 from their salary alone.

Lorraine Mullally, of the Eurosceptic British think tank Open Europe, estimated
the total cost to the taxpayer of the "phantom'' group, including their
allowances, at an annual  pounds 6.5 million.

"It's typical of the bloated EU institutions to pay 18 superfluous politicians
to do absolutely nothing and for no good reason,'' she said. "We're in the
middle of the worst recession since the 1930s and yet here we are paying for
nobodies to do nothing in the European Parliament.

"It's madness. So much for streamlining things - Lisbon just adds to the
ridiculous waste and bureaucracy, and taxpayers have to foot the bill.''

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader in Brussels, said: "This has to
be the perfect EU apprenticeship - a Euromillions winner at our expense.
Tax-funded wages and expenses but with absolutely nothing to do for at least two
years.''

The additional MEP for Britain has yet to be decided, but sources indicate that
the seat will go to the West Midlands region, with the Conservative candidate
Anthea McIntyre the most likely appointment.

However, Scotland and London are seeking an exception to the existing rules so
their region would receive the new MEP. Amid confusion over when and how the 18
will take up their seats, François Fillon, the French prime minister, asked that
one member of the Paris parliament be chosen as an MEP from the ruling UMP party
and

one from the Socialist opposition.

The treaty increases the number of French MEPs from 72 to 74, but unlike most
other countries, France did not work out a method for determining which regions
would benefit from the extra seats.

Andrew Duff, the British Liberal Democrat MEP, said the French move was against
the 1976 rules on electing MEPs, which ban designating members from national
parliaments.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 14, 2009 Monday

Tory disquiet as Speaker's wife is put on Labour list

BYLINE: Caroline Gammell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 493  words


SALLY BERCOW, the wife of the Speaker of the House of Commons, has won a place
on a list of approved Labour candidates for the next general election.

The mother-of-three, who spoke out against Conservative leader David Cameron
earlier this month, could now be assigned one of the many seats up for grabs
next year.

Her selection will cause disquiet among a number of Conservative MPs who believe
she will put her husband, John, a fellow Tory, in an impossible situation. The
Speaker insisted he was not worried about his wife's foray into politics, and
added that if he did not support her he would be considered "sexist''.

Mrs Bercow, 40, initially said she wanted to stand as a Labour councillor in
Westminster next May. However, her inclusion on the Labour parliamentary list
was approved on Friday night.

If she were to win a seat at the next general election, it is thought it would
be the first time a husband and wife have represented opposing parties at
Westminster.

In an interview just over a week ago, Mrs Bercow called Mr Cameron a "merchant
of spin'' who "favours the interests of the few over the mainstream majority''.

Her husband - who described himself in a newly published interview as a "pretty
lousy frontbencher'' - said that just because he and his wife differed
politically did not mean they could not stand as MPs.

"I can't be an advocate of more women in Parliament, which I was, consistently,
for a number of years, and then try to stop my wife exercising her democratic
right,'' he told Total Politics magazine.

"One thing I do think is quite wrong and unfair is for somebody to say: 'Oh
well, it's improper for the Speaker's wife to be engaged in acts of politics'.
That's wrong. It's a deeply sexist view based on the idea that the wife is my
chattel.''

A number of Tory MPs have voiced their concern. Nadine Dorries, a backbencher,
said Mrs Bercow's criticism of Mr Cameron had placed the office of Speaker "as
low as it can go''. She said: "If Sally Bercow were married to a plumber from
Putney and standing for a council seat, no one on the national political stage
would be remotely interested in what she said, however, she isn't.

"When a new Parliament sits, we MPs, at a strategic moment, have the opportunity
to shout 'No' when the motion to reinstate the Speaker is announced.''

Mr Bercow, 46, is also under pressure from Ukip after Nigel  Farage announced he
was stepping down as leader to challenge for the Speaker's seat of Buckingham.

Convention rules that the main parties do not challenge the Speaker in an
election. Mr Bercow said there had been a suggestion to create a "separate''
seat, known as St Stephen's, for the Speaker, which could not be contested. "The
House of Commons can always decide to do that if it wants,'' he said.

Mr Farage said that Mr Bercow was "panicking''.

"Even his wife, the Labour candidate, won't be supporting him at the next
election and nor will many former

Tory voters in Buckingham,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 14, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tories are too pro-EU to fend off UKIP with a poll

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 158  words


FREDERICK Forsyth is full of misplaced optimism if he thinks David Cameron will
consider a 10,000-strong public opinion poll on whether to hold a referendum on
the Lisbon Treaty ("Here's how Cameron can neutralise UKIP", December 11).

UKIP leader Lord Pearson has already offered to stand aside if Mr Cameron, as
Prime Minister, pledges a referendum on our continued EU membership.

This offer was ignored, proving that the Tories, in common with Labour and the
Liberal Democrats, are very much pro-EU. So what chance of a poll on the treaty?

The only way for those who want a say on how we are governed is to vote for
UKIP. And make no mistake - UKIP is not a small splinter party. It did well in
June's European elections and draws support from across the political and social
spectrums.

It is neither Right nor Left-wing and has a range of common sense,
middle-of-the-road policies that are designed to return power to the people.

Mike Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 13, 2009 Sunday

SPEAKER TO SACK OFFICIAL BEHIND MPS'EXPENSES

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 522 words


THE mandarin blamed for failing to stop the MPs' expenses scandal faces the sack
after the Speaker launched an outspoken public attack on his own parliamentary
officials.

John Bercow wants a clearout of top officials in the Commons Resources
Department, which is responsible for MPs' pay and allowances.

Andrew Walker, the £130,000-a-year director of resources, is expected to lose
his job when the newly created Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority
(IPSA) takes charge of curbing MPs' expenses.

In an interview with Total Politics magazine, published this week, Mr Bercow
says: 'IPSA will be up and running in due course and some staff from the Commons
Resources Department will join it ñ but by no means all. I am not
anticipating-that the most senior staff from the Resources Department will be
joining IPSA. Repeat, I am not anticipating that the senior staff will join.'

Mr Walker, 55, and his team were heavily criticised for rubber-stamping MPs'
expenses claims for everything from bell tower repairs to pornographic movies.

He will be offered a different Commons post. But there are bound to be claims
that he is being made a scapegoat.

Friends say it is wrong to blame him. One said: 'Andrew has administered a
system designed by MPs themselves.

'He received no credit for stopping far worse claims going through. When he did
try to intervene he was often treated very rudely by arrogant MPs who regarded
their expenses as sacrosanct.

'To scapegoat him for the wrongdoing of MPs would be most unfair.'

Mr Walker declined to comment.

BERCOW PLANS TO CREATE NEW SEAT TO DODGE ELECTION DEFEAT

SPEAKER John Bercow wants to switch to a new seat with only MPs as his
'constituents' so he can avoid a humiliating defeat by former UKIP leader Nigel
Farage at the next General Election.

It would mean abandoning his Buckingham seat for the newly created one called St
Stephen's ñ the name of the old House of Commons chapel ñ where, effectively, it
would be impossible to challenge him.

He put forward the idea amid speculation that he may struggle to defeat Mr
Farage, who stepped down as UKIP leader to take on Mr Bercow in defiance of the
custom where the Commons Speaker is not challenged by the main parties. If the
tradition ended, said Mr Bercow, it could be hard for any Speaker to survive for
more than one parliamentary term.

Mr Bercow suggested giving the Speaker 'a separate constituency, known as St
Stephen's, representing a small area around Westminster'. The Speaker's original
constituency would hold a normal election and choose a new MP, he explained.

'The Commons can always decide to do that if it wants,' he told Total Politics
magazine. If MPs supported such an idea, he would not oppose it. Ordinary
members of the public would not be allowed to be 'constituents' of the Speaker's
St Stephen's seat.

Any Election challenge would have to be made on an individual ñ not a party ñ
basis, making it harder to unseat the Speaker.

Mr Bercow said: 'It is both possible and necessary for the Speaker to continue
to be a highly active constituency MP.

I suspect I won't face major party competition ñ but I will face opponents.'

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 13, 2009
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Speaker's wife on Labour's MP list

BYLINE: Jonathan Oliver; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 249 words


THE wife of John Bercow, the Speaker and a Tory MP, has won a place on an
official list of approved prospective candidates for the Labour party.

In a highly provocative move, Sally Bercow has been given the go-ahead to seek a
parliamentary seat, despite her limited political experience.

In normal circumstances she would face a battle to secure a parliamentary seat.
However, from January, Labour chiefs will have the power to "impose" favoured
candidates on safe seats.

The decision, taken at a meeting behind closed doors on Friday night, has
prompted speculation of a plot to parachute her into a safe seat to antagonise
the Conservatives. It is believed the couple would be the first at Westminster
to represent opposing parties.

Last night Tory MPs reacted with irritation, warning that the Speaker's future
was now in serious doubt. Nadine Dorries, the Conservative backbencher, said:
"This makes it impossible for Bercow to continue as Speaker.

"Her adoption as a Labour candidate politicises the Speaker's office and it may
now be that he could be ousted before the general election."

Another Tory MP, normally sympathetic to Bercow, described the move as a
"declaration of war" and warned that Bercow's future as an MP could be in doubt.

Tory activists in Buckingham, where Bercow has a majority of more than 18,000,
were deeply dismayed by an interview in which Sally Bercow lambasted David
Cameron. Bercow himself is facing a challenge for the seat from Nigel Farage,
the former UKIP leader.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               December 13, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Speaker's wife put on Labour candidate list

BYLINE: Jonathan Oliver; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


THE wife of John Bercow, the recently appointed Speaker and a Tory MP, has won a
place on an official list of approved prospective candidates for the Labour
party.

In a highly provocative move, Sally Bercow has been given the go-ahead to seek a
parliamentary seat, despite her limited political experience.

The decision, taken at a meeting behind closed doors on Friday night, has
prompted speculation of a plot to parachute her into a safe seat to antagonise
the Conservatives. It is believed the couple would be the first at Westminster
to represent opposing parties.

Last night Tory MPs reacted with irritation, warning that the Speaker's future
was now in serious doubt.

Nadine Dorries, the Conservative backbencher, said: "This makes it impossible
for Bercow to continue as Speaker.

"Her adoption as a Labour candidate politicises the Speaker's office and it may
now be that he could be ousted before the general election."

Another Tory MP, normally sympathetic to Bercow, described the move as a
"declaration of war" and warned that Bercow's future as an MP could be in doubt.

Tory activists in Buckingham,where Bercowhas a majority of more than 18,000,
were deeply dismayed by an interview in which Sally Bercow lambasted David
Cameron. Bercow himself is facing a challenge for the seat from Nigel Farage,
the former UKIP leader.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

Tempers flare Viscount calls Jewish activist 'Hitler Youth'

BYLINE: Louise Gray and Stephen Adams

SECTION: NEWS; COPENHAGEN SUMMIT 2009; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 178  words


Viscount Monckton, the former Conservative peer, described a Jewish
environmental activist as "Hitler Youth'' in an angry exchange in Copenhagen.

The peer, an ardent climate change sceptic who joined the UK Independence Party
this week, called Ben Wessel a "Hitler Youth'' 10 times despite the young
American telling him that his grandparents had fled Nazi Germany.

Lord Monckton, 57, confronted Mr Wessel, a member of SustainUS, an American
sustainable development group, after activists interrupted an event linked to
the Copenhagen Climate Challenge, a side conference organised by sceptics.

As Mr Wessel tried to shake his hand, Lord Monckton responded: "No, no I'm not
going to shake the hand of Hitler Youth. I'm sorry.''

Mr Wessel replied: "Sir, as a Jew I'm not really sure how I should take that.''

When Lord Monckton told him he should just "take it'', Mr Wessel informed him:
"My grandparents escaped the Nazis growing up in Germany.''

He said later that he did not think Lord Monckton was anti-semitic, adding: "I
think he is confused about the facts of science.''

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

The EU should leave my Aga alone

BYLINE: Gill Hornby

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 230  words


I couldn't care less about funny-shaped sausages or cucumbers. I'm pretty
relaxed about the thought of adopting the euro. National cuisine, national
currency, national sovereignty - these are trifles. But now it's been revealed
that an EU directive on the quality of domestic oil has caused a sudden collapse
in the performance of our Agas, and -whoa! - I've come over all Ukip.

The Brussels directive requires that the oil we use in our homes should have a
lower sulphur content. The aim, which seems quite laudable, is to reduce
greenhouse gases. But the result is that the fuel carbonises more quickly,
creating a thick black smoke - mounting panic here - which clogs the fuel pipes,
which in turn - sensitive rural types, look away now - makes the Aga go out.
Aaaaargh!

Personally, I think the EU doesn't give a damn about sulphur content: it's just
another skirmish in the guerrilla war against Agas. George Monbiot has already
accused them of destroying the planet. Now, here's another dastardly green
scheme: if they keep going out, perhaps we'll give them up.

Ha! It'll take more than that. For, much as we love our trusty stoves, we know
that they do have a tendresse for a little breakdown when they feel like it,
especially on or around the winter solstice. We can live with that. What we
can't live with is Brussels mucking up our kitchens. Mr Farage - where do I
sign?

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

National: Climate: When the sceptic took on the activists: It all ends in
'Hitler' jibes

BYLINE: Adam Vaughan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 237 words


It was a bruising exchange. When Lord Monckton, the climate change sceptic who
has branded Copenhagen a prelude to "a global government" visited the booth of
the climate activism group SustainUS, the peer called the young delegates
"Hitler youth", "Nazis", and "Hitler-ish" in a six-minute long exchange on
Thursday that was posted on YouTube.

Monckton was furious that the group had gatecrashed an event by the climate
sceptic group Americans for Prosperity on Wednesday.

Several dozen activists interrupted a speech with unfurling banners calling for
"clean energy now", which prompted Monckton to take the microphone and accuse
them of being "crazed Hitler youth". He returned on Thursday for a further
discussion.

Monckton said to Ben Wessel, a 20-year-old activist from Middlebury college,
Vermont, and who is Jewish, "I will call you Hitler youth if you ever again
interrupt any meeting at which I am present where we are trying to have a
private conversation."

Wessel said last night: "I was so surprised. I hoped to have a more civil
conversation with the man. It's fine that we have differences, but it's not OK
to pull out such hateful language."

Monckton, the hereditary third Viscount Monckton of Brenchley, is one of the
most prominent climate change sceptics and regularly makes TV appearances on the
subject. He also undertook a lecture tour of US audiences this year and this
week joined the UK Independence party.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Bad case of jitters on Tory bandwagon provides a test of nerve for Cameron;
Inside Politics

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: ADVERTISING; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 829 words


Four years after David Cameron became Conservative leader, his party is having
an outbreak of the jitters. Senior Tories are not yet in a panic about those
opinion polls showing their lead slipping into single figures. But they are,
naturally, wondering why it is happening.

On the surface, the Cameron show goes on and it is an impressive one. Yet behind
the scenes, all is not well. A Tory mole tells me that Mr Cameron has received
about 4,000 letters of protest over dropping his "cast-iron guarantee" that a
Tory government would hold a referendum on the EU's Treaty of Lisbon. At one
point they were running at 300 a day. The only other time he had such a mountain
was after the death of his son Ivan.

The letters were not, it seems, an orchestrated plot by Tory Eurosceptics or the
UK Independence Party. The issue for many correspondents was not Europe but
trust, a promise broken. I suspect we won't hear Mr Cameron use the phrase
"cast-iron guarantee" again.

Trust matters. It is no use offering change if the voters don't believe you will
implement it. Trust in politicians generally seems to be at an all-time low. The
latest episode in the MPs' expenses saga will hardly help. Perhaps the reason Mr
Cameron has never reached the pre-1997 heights to which Tony Blair soared in the
polls is that many people who fell for him then felt let down later. Once
bitten, twice shy.

You can sense a frustration among the Cameroons. Polls which show the Tories
maintaining a lead of 10 points or more are virtually ignored, while those
pointing to a hung parliament make waves. Newspapers which proclaimed Mr Cameron
had sealed the deal have reverted to asking "can he seal the deal?"

What's gone wrong? Labour and Liberal Democrat strategists think the change in
the wind has been created largely by the Tories themselves. Labour's internal
polling detected "vulnerabilities" after George Osborne's bold move to spell out
some spending cuts at the Tory conference in October. Alistair Darling's
reluctance to provide much detail of Labour's inevitable cuts in this week's
pre-Budget report makes the Shadow Chancellor look even more brave. But it seems
that voters do not like the Osborne medicine, such as the pay freeze for public
sector workers earning more than £18,000 a year.

The Liberal Democrats sniffed a change in the air this summer. Their focus
groups found that people saw Mr Cameron as dynamic and brave but he scored less
well on trust and understanding the lives of ordinary people than he used to.
Nick Clegg suspects that, if an election were held now, his party would gain
from the Tories as many seats as it lost to them, while his goal of seizing some
of Labour's northern heartlands may not be as easy to achieve as it looked six
months ago.

Any doubts in voters' minds that Mr Cameron is not "one of us" might well have
been reinforced by recent headlines about Zac Goldsmith, Lord Ashcroft, Tory
plans to cut inheritance tax and the latest offensive by Labour's class
warriors.

There is some frustration in the Shadow Cabinet too. Some members argue that the
Tories need to show the voters they are not a one-man band, yet the Cameron
circle argues the only way to grab media attention for a speech or policy
announcement is for "David or George [Osborne] to do it". A team approach was
tried ahead of the Copenhagen summit with a series of speeches on climate change
by seven shadow ministers. They were excited at the prospect. But only Mr
Osborne got any coverage; the rest were ignored.

The environment, once a winner for Mr Cameron as he hugged a husky, is now more
problematic. The Tories know that Mr Brown will be at the centre of events as
the Copenhagen talks come to a head next week. It is a reminder that, however
weak a government, it can still "do" while oppositions can only talk.

Despite that, the Tories have said nothing about the damaging leaked emails sent
by scientists at the University of East Anglia. Plans for Tory frontbenchers to
call for an inquiry fizzled out. Mr Cameron did not want to be accused of siding
with the climate change sceptics, many of whom are in his own party.

So his boldness has its limits. Allies emphatically deny that he is reluctant to
ditch policies on inheritance tax and rewarding marriage in the tax system for
fear of upsetting Tory traditionalists. They may well be right, but the image
persists of a man who has not yet emulated Mr Blair in taking on his own party
to illustrate that it has changed. When he was gliding to victory, perhaps Mr
Cameron didn't need to pick a fight with his own side, and risk disunity. But as
the Tories' poll lead narrows, some Cameroons believe he needs to remind the
public all over again that his party has changed.

That Mr Cameron has had so few wobbles in the past four years is a tribute to
his success. There was bound to be an outbreak of pre-election jitters at some
point. The Tory leader has steel. He is going to need it now and, more
importantly, to show it.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP vid 'leak' rap

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 91 words


A MAN who wanted to be an MEP for UKIP has won £50 compensation after a video of
his interview was leaked and ridiculed on YouTube. Council worker John West, 42,
was branded a "nutter" by web viewers who watched the mock TV grilling, recorded
during the screening process for potential candidates.

The party claimed it must have been put online by a thief after a laptop was
stolen.

But Ipswich County Court was told the video had been posted as a "punishment"
following a feud between Mr West, of Woodbridge, Suffolk, and senior members of
the party.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Here's how Cameron can neutralise UKIP;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: LEADER; 15

LENGTH: 566  words


SOME fool once said politics is the art of the possible.

He was hailed as a sage but, no, it is first-class administration, the turning
of political theory into smooth- running reality that requires the study of the
possible and that belongs to the civil service.

Politics is about creating the nation of tomorrow and next year, it involves
vision, commitment, imagination. But first you have to win the power and
elections only involve arithmetic. So let me attempt some basic maths.

David Cameron may intend to reduce the number of MPs in the House but he will
fight the election on the present number, which is 646. For a viable majority of
30 over combined opposition (and it will be combined) he needs half that figure
plus 15, I make that 338.

At the moment he has 198. So he has to win back 140.

I say win back because they were all Margaret Thatcher's once. It was the
brilliance of Major, Heseltine and Clarke from November 1990 to May 1997 that
managed to lose 224 seats in 77 months - a British record.

Never mind the average national swing he may or may not need. This is pie in the
sky. Every constituency is different and the voter mood needed to win (or even
lose) each one will vary. But a few things are still crystal clear.

One is that there will be an almost unprecedented number of first-time
candidates. Some will be fighting against a sitting incumbent, other contestants
will see two or even three newcomers going for a vacated seat.

Despite the charming innovation of open primaries in Totnes, the huge majority
of Tory candidates will have been chosen by the constituency association so they
will be clean on the expense-fiddling issue. But so, probably, will be their
equally new opponent. Towards sitting candidates the voter mood is likely to
remain surly which is why I think Labour may lose 100 seats, maybe more.

But over and above all this David Cameron has two headaches. Thoroughly
hacked-off Labour voters, and there are millions, are more likely to switch to
Lib-Dem than right across to Conservative. So DC is being told on all sides at
Headshed: say absolutely nothing to offend absolutely anybody. That was why he
had to hammer Dan Hannan for even hinting the NHS was less than perfect.

There is one exception to this rule: the traditional EU-sceptic wing can be
dismissed, as can the elderly vote. They have nowhere else to go. Oh no? Do not
forget we are 11million.

AND there is more. The Tories are the only major party with a small splinter
party aiming to do nothing else but split their vote and cause them to lose.
UKIP cost the Tories a provable 25 seats in 2005 and it could be 35 (and Downing
Street) in 2010. For if there is a hung Parliament Nick Clegg and the Lib-Dems
will join a coalition with a Milibandled Blairite Labour Party, leaving the
Labour Left to swing in the wind. This Miliband-Clegg alliance would be
passionately EU-fanatic.

Farewell Blighty. Is there nothing DC could do?

Actually there is. If he dare not guarantee us the referendum we deserve he
could at least pledge to authorise a rigorously independent but huge
10,000-strong public opinion poll with one question: do you believe the British
should have a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty?

And then add: if the yes percentage is over 60 I will have no choice but to
grant the referendum.

That would be unattackable as Europhobia but would bring up to a million UKIP
votes streaming back.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 11, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary: They've got the doubts, they've got the emails, and now
they say they've got Mr Titchmarsh

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 668 words


Though understandably our focus has switched to Alistair Darling's budget and
further questionable claims from others at Westminster, the work in Copenhagen
continues. The warnings about a warming planet are being heeded, and not before
time. That said, the sceptics are also in their own way gaining traction. There
is, Melanie Phillips wrote earlier this week in the Spectator, a list of 700
experts determined to resist the liberal view of global warming; and thanks to
the website liberalconspiracy, we see the list - compiled by a Republican
senator - includes economists, journalists and a fair few TV weathermen. For
completeness we might add that it also includes the TV presenter, gardener and
novelist Alan Titchmarsh (pictured), by dint of a few sceptical remarks he made
two years ago to the Telegraph. So there it is. Nicholas Stern or Alan
Titchmarsh? You decide.

No immediate sighting on Phillips' list of Viscount Monckton, who has lectured
on the "Overheated Hype Behind Global Warming". From our check, he certainly
fails to make the top 400. But that can't possibly be the situation for very
long because, just in time, the former Thatcherite adviser, a familiar sight
back then in his bowler hat, is re-entering public life as the climate change
talisman for the climate change-sceptical Ukip - a boon engineered by his friend
and Ukip's new leader, Lord Pearson of Rannoch. "I have been a friend and an
admirer of Lord Pearson of Rannoch. Now that he has become the leader of Ukip,
the nation will take our party very seriously indeed," declares Monckton. Very
seriously indeed. Don't laugh.

For we have always taken Ukip seriously; think Ashley Mote, Tom Wise, Godfrey
"eight pints" Bloom; and over the years we have always treated Monckton with the
utmost seriousness. Our favourite Monckton moment involved his invention of the
Eternity puzzle, a board game he proclaimed to be so fiendishly challenging that
he offered £1m to the first person to solve it. Within 16 months, two
mathematicians from Cambridge had taken his money. I'll have to sell my castle
to pay for it, he had claimed, but later the Scotsman newspaper quoted him -
without subsequent challenge - admitting that there was, in fact, no panic sale;
the desperate claim was just a ruse to get publicity. "History is full of
stories that aren't actually true," he said.

Meanwhile, as time runs out for the status quo at Westminster, signs that
tempers are frayed and things are starting to unravel. The parliamentary
undersecretary of state for communities and local government, Barbara Follett,
steps up to the dispatch box during a debate on council funding. This is what
she says. "I wish that I could say that this had been an interesting and
wide-ranging examination of the local government finance settlement, but it has
not. With one or two honourable exceptions, on both sides of the house, this has
been just the sort of blustering, grandstanding, smug, 'We know better than you
and just wait until our side gets in' kind of exchange that puts most normal
people off politics and, frankly, puts me off listening to you all." The MPs
take this scolding from Supernanny badly. John Redwood gives them voice. "She
comes to the house, insults those of us who did participate in the debate, and
gives us absolutely nothing in the way of argument, fact or consideration in the
light of the many powerful points that have been made today. I hope that she
will reflect on that and apologise." But nanny never apologises. They sulk. They
vote.

Finally, a soft chime heralds an email, and it is from our former colleague
Duncan Campbell, wondering why Funnyosities, the new pocket-sized book
celebrating the world as it was seen by Chic Murray, is not one of our Christmas
gift suggestions. Why should it be, we ask? He offers justification. "You're the
wine waiter. You recommend me a good wine." "Well, why not try the Macon, sir?"
"What? Are you going to pour it over me?" Typical Duncan. Vintage Chic.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Mandelson takes £201 in free postage as peers total £19m

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 304 words


Lord Mandelson, the minister leading Government demands for the modernisation of
Royal Mail, claimed £201 in free postage. But the Business Secretary made only a
modest contribution to the £19 million total claimed by peers in the last
financial year.

Peers' allowances as a proportion of the overall cost of the House of Lords
increased from 15 to 18 per cent in 2008-09, according to new figures.

Other notable claims include that of Lord Ahmed, the Labour peer, who was jailed
in February for sending text messages while driving. He billed for £4,050 in
motoring costs and took up a phone supplied by the House of Lords. His total
claim was £55,549.

Lord Watson of Invergowrie, who was jailed in 2005 for fireraising, attended
Parliament on 128 days in 2008-09 for which he claimed £44,267 in allowances.

Peers are not paid a salary, but can claim expenses for travel to and from
Westminster and on parliamentary business, as well as daily expenses of up to
£174 for staying away from their main home, £86.50 for daytime expenses such as
meals and parking and £75 for office costs.

Among the largest overall claims were £73,206 from the crossbencher Lord Laird,
£66,896 from Labour's Baroness Adams of Craigielea, £65,804 from Labour's Lord
Foster of Bishop Auckland, and £65,447 from Labour's Lord Evans of Parkside. The
biggest payments for overnight subsistence were for the Liberal Democrats Lord
Addington and Lord Razzall, who each claimed £31,073 for staying away on 147
days. The most expensive office claims came from Labour's Lord Hoyle (£15,993),
the crossbencher Lord Elystan-Morgan (£15,885), the Tory Lord Sheikh (£15,502),
the UKIP leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch (£15,346) and Labour's Lord Sewel
(£15,312).

The biggest claim for travel to attend Parliament came from the Conservative
Earl of Caithness (£19,005).

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Race to form EU foreign office 'before Cameron takes power';
Europe

BYLINE: Europe David

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 674 words


With a Conservative Government favourite to take power next year, Baroness
Ashton of Upholland is racing against time to establish a pan-European
diplomatic service before David Cameron can clip its wings.

Some European leaders and MEPs want the new External Action Service (EAS) that
she will oversee to become a federal Foreign Office for the EU with full
consular powers, making it Europe's pre-eminent presence around the world. But
the battle is on to shape it before a possible change of government in Britain.

"We would like everything in place before David Cameron becomes Prime Minister,"
said Andrew Duff, a Liberal Democrat MEP and leader of the Union of European
Federalists. "If he is prepared to be obstructionist, then the establishment of
the EAS is a good target, because the framework has got to be agreed by the 27
member states. It is a form of pressure that David Cameron is putting on us -
but it is very good pressure because it means that we have to press on."

Decisions affecting the EAS will be taken by majority vote, so a future
Conservative government would have to build coalitions with likeminded member
states. The EAS is a creation of the Lisbon treaty, born of the merger of
external relations departments in the European Commission and the European
Council, which also established the post of EU High Representative won by Lady
Ashton last month.

She will take charge of the EU's external budget, set at ¤45 billion (£40
billion) for the 2007-13 period, as well as a network of about 130 EU
"embassies" and 3,000 staff around the world. The British peer, who became the
EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs on December 1, was embroiled in her
first controversy last night when a dozen of the EU's 27 foreign ministers
objected to being replaced by her at the European summit in Brussels.

The decision to ban foreign ministers was defended by Carl Bildt, the Foreign
Minister of Sweden - which holds the EU rotating presidency - who said that,
since the Lisbon treaty came into force, relations between member states were no
longer considered "foreign policy" but were now "domestic policy". Therefore EU
leaders no longer need their top diplomats beside them at EU summits.

It was a clear example of the downgrading of member state foreign ministries in
the post-Lisbon treaty system, and a further erosion of national influence could
come over the question of whether EU "embassies" will go on to offer consular
services - as well as intelligence gathering for the EU.

Guy Verhofstadt, leader of the Alliance of Liberal and Democrat MEPs, said:
"There has to be the possibility for a European citizen, when he has problems in
another country and there is not an embassy of his own country to go to, that he
can go to the EAS. That would be one of the major achievements if we could
create it."

The gradual development of unified EU embassies horrifies opponents of European
federalism. David Campbell-Bannerman, a UKIP MEP on the Foreign Affairs
Committee of the European Parliament, said: "They are talking about creating a
diplomatic ethos, just like the Commission, where Commissioners are not meant to
represent the national interest. If you have EU embassies, this is an EU state."

Lady Ashton must present her proposals for the EAS in the new year, and the
European Parliament hopes to sign if off by the end of April. Javier Solana,
Lady Ashton's predecessor at the European Council, insisted that it was futile
for member states to think they could still act unilaterally.

British diplomats insisted that Hilary Benn, the Environment Secretary, had
received a last-minute invitation to attend an EU meeting in Paris yesterday
from Bruno Le Maire, France's European Affairs Minister (David Charter writes).
They said that Mr Le Maire, the host of the meeting of Farm Ministers, had
telephoned him but Mr Benn had been unable to go. A British official attended
instead. Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg said he was "fed up" with leaders
claiming victory after EU summits.

Business, Tobin tax detente, page 73

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton has irked foreign ministers by banning them from summit

GEORGES GOBET / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

European leaders push for a federal foreign office 'before Cameron comes to
power';
Europe

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 730 words


With a Conservative Government favourite to take power next year, Baroness
Ashton of Upholland is racing against time to establish a pan-European
diplomatic service before David Cameron can clip its wings.

Some European leaders and MEPs want the new External Action Service (EAS) that
she will oversee to become a federal Foreign Office for the EU with full
consular powers, making it Europe's pre-eminent presence around the world. But
the battle is on to shape it before a possible change of government in Britain.

"We would like everything in place before David Cameron becomes Prime Minister,"
said Andrew Duff, a Liberal Democrat MEP and leader of the Union of European
Federalists. "If he is prepared to be obstructionist, then the establishment of
the EAS is a good target, because the framework has got to be agreed by the 27
member states. It is a form of pressure that David Cameron is putting on us -
but it is very good pressure because it means that we have to press on."

Decisions affecting the EAS will be taken by majority vote, so a future Tory
government would have to build coalitions with likeminded member states. The EAS
is a creation of the Lisbon treaty, born of the merger of external relations
departments in the European Commission and the European Council, which also
established the post of EU High Representative won by Lady Ashton last month.

She will take charge of the EU's external budget, set at ¤45 billion (£40
billion) for the 2007-13 period, as well as a network of about 130 EU
"embassies" and 3,000 staff around the world. The British peer, who became the
EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs on December 1, was embroiled in her
first controversy last night when a dozen of the EU's 27 foreign ministers
objected to being replaced by her at the European summit in Brussels.

The decision to ban foreign ministers was defended by Carl Bildt, the Foreign
Minister of Sweden - which holds the EU rotating presidency - who said that
since the Lisbon treaty came into force relations between member states were no
longer considered "foreign policy" but were now "domestic policy". Therefore EU
leaders no longer needed their top diplomats beside them at EU summits.

It was a clear example of the downgrading of member state foreign ministries in
the post-Lisbon treaty system, and a further erosion of national influence could
come over the question of whether EU "embassies" will go on to offer consular
services - as well as intelligence gathering for the EU.

Guy Verhofstadt, leader of the Alliance of Liberal and Democrat MEPs, said:
"There has to be the possibility for a European citizen, when he has problems in
another country and there is not an embassy of his own country to go to, that he
can go to the EAS. That would be one of the major achievements if we could
create it."

The gradual development of unified EU embassies horrifies opponents of European
federalism. David Campbell-Bannerman, a UKIP MEP on the Foreign Affairs
Committee of the European Parliament, said: "They are talking about creating a
diplomatic ethos, just like the Commission, where commissioners are not meant to
represent the national interest. If you have EU embassies, this is an EU state."

Lady Ashton must present her proposals for the EAS in the new year, and the
European Parliament hopes to sign if off by the end of April. Javier Solana, her
predecessor at the European Council, said it was futile for member states to
think they could still act unilaterally.

"I hope very much that people are sensible, and realise that it is a fantasy to
think any EU country can do anything alone," he said. "In the world of today, of
emerging powers, we are forced to co-operate."

British diplomats insisted that Hilary Benn, the Environment Secretary, had
received a last-minute invitation to attend an EU meeting in Paris yesterday
from Bruno Le Maire, France's European Affairs Minister (David Charter writes).
They said that Mr Le Maire, the host of the meeting of farm ministers, had
telephoned him but Mr Benn had been unable to go. A British official attended
instead.

Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg said that he was "fed up" with leaders
claiming victory after EU summits. "We need to ensure that we always act as one
so that the EU is the winner and we have to be aware that we are all losers if
the EU loses," he said. Business, Tobin tax detente, page 73

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton has irked European foreign ministers after they were
replaced by her at a summit in Brussels
OLIVIER HOSLET / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday

Has Ukip got more than it bargained for in recruiting Viscount Monckton?

BYLINE: George Monbiotguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 503 words

ABSTRACT

George Monbiot: If the climate sceptic's own PR is to be believed, Ukip has
landed a Nobel laureate, member of the House of Lords, and inventor of the
universal cure

FULL TEXT

Lucky old UK Independence party. With great fanfare in Copenhagen,  - the man
who believes that action on climate change is a conspiracy to create a communist
world government - announced this morning that he was joining them. He has made
this momentous move, he tells us, because he has "become fed up with the hive
mentality of British political discourse". British political discourse will
doubtless miss him sorely, but does Ukip know what it is taking on?

I know that this party has become the last refuge of a marvellous collection of
cranks and fabulists. In fact this seems to be its main role: care in the
community for political eccentrics. But when even Rod Liddle, who is no friend
of environmentalists, describes Monckton in his , you can't help fearing that
Ukip might be out of its depth.

Liddle linked to a speech Monckton delivered in October to something called the
. In the speech, Monckton maintains that:

· He has read the treaty that will be signed at Copenhagen next week. That's
quite a feat of clairvoyance.

· The treaty says that "a world government is going to be created".

· Greenpeace is "about to impose a communist world government on the world" and
President Obama, who sympathises with that aim, will sign up to it.

These are not the first of Viscount Monckton's interesting statements. He has
claimed, , that he is a member of the House of Lords. He did once put himself
forward for election among his peers. His score? Nul points.

He maintains that he is a Nobel peace laureate,  (the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change won the peace prize with Al Gore in 2007). On the same grounds,
everyone who sent an unsolicited letter to the IPCC could claim a share in the
prize. But in Monckton's case, he got a gold pin made for himself to prove it.

He contends that he won the Falklands war for Britain by .

Now, on the CV attached to his announcement of his Ukip candidacy, he claims to
be "responsible for invention and development of a broad-spectrum cure for
infectious diseases. Patents have now been filed. Patients have been cured of
various infectious diseases, including Graves' disease, multiple sclerosis,
influenza, food poisoning, and HIV."

He spoils it all a little by boasting during one interview about telling "".

But why let a trifling matter like that cast a shadow over Ukip's brilliant
coup? In one new member they have landed a Nobel laureate, member of the House
of Lords, saviour of the British armed forces and inventor of the universal
cure. They should be feeling very pleased with themselves. Or very scared.


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Derby holds key to Tory hopes of election victory;
David Cameron will win a Commons majority if the swing voters of this Midlands
town back him

BYLINE: Andrew Norfolk; Emily Gosden

SECTION: THE DEBTORS BUDGET;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1735 words


Derby North is one of the key Labour seats targeted by the Conservatives as they
seek a return to power at Westminster. The Tories held it between 1983 and 1997.
Bob Laxton, the Labour MP since then, stands down next year.

A uniform 6.8 per cent swing from Labour to Conservative across the country
would, in theory, earn David Cameron victory by the narrowest of margins in
Derby North and an overall majority of one in the next Parliament. The Liberal
Democrats have the majority of councillors in the constituency's local authority
wards and all three main parties are wooing voters in what is a mainly
residential seat that excludes the centre of Derby but includes suburbs in the
north, east, west and south west of the city.

The railway and aerospace industries remain big private sector employers, but
new investment has supported a shift from manufacturing to the service
sector.DerbyNorthalsohasasignificant student population, hundreds of whom are
threatening to vote en bloc to win better funding for higher education.

Some of our voting panel lean towards one party; others are yet to decide. All
watched yesterday's Pre-Budget Report with varying degrees of pessimism to learn
how the Government's economic plans would affect their immediate and long-term
future.

The young couple

Laurence Barnard, 22, vice-president of the University of Derby Students' Union.
Chanette Smith, 25, history undergraduate and mother Previous First-time voters
Intention Mr Barnard probably Lib Dem, possibly Conservative; Miss Smith Labour
or Lib Dem

When his union post ends next summer, Mr Barnard, a media studies graduate, will
be seeking work to support Miss Smith and her daughter, 2. He said: "The
Chancellor needs to give me more hope of a decent job and a way to make it
easier for us to buy a home."

Miss Smith said: "I was brought up to be very careful with my money. I will be
disgusted if they let the bankers keep those bonuses."

Verdict Mr Barnard welcomed measures to stimulate job creation. "I am still not
going to vote Labour, but it has restored a little of my faith." Miss Smith was
pleased with the rise in child benefit , extension of free meals and windfall
tax on banks.

The father and daughter

Sean O'Brien, 47, an IT consultant, and daughter. Calli, 22, assistant buyer at
Boots head office Previous Mr O'Brien usually votes Conservative but chose
Labour in 1997 and Lib Dem in 2001; Miss O'Brien is a first-time voter Intention
Mr O'Brien probably Conservative; Miss O'Brien unsure

They agree that it is time for a change and that VAT should return to 17.5 per
cent to help to tackle the debt but Mr O'Brien thinks that income tax will also
have to rise: "I am expecting pain, the question is how much pain. Do I lose a
hand or a whole arm?" She disagrees: "As a graduate I have a big loan to pay off
and having tax increases is not going to help at all. I would prefer to have
cuts."

Verdict "He's bottled it and not tackled this deficit," Mr O'Brien said. Bonuses
and public sector salary caps would not make a huge impact on the deficit. But
Miss O'Brien supported them. "The main thing I'm impressed by is they haven't
hiked up taxes,"she said.

The estate agent

Sally Timmins, 49, married mother of two children Previous Usually Conservative
Intention Probably Lib Dem, possibly Conservative

"We need a change. I won't vote Labour but I am not particularly enamoured with
the Tories either. I feel very frustrated by what has happened to the economy. I
am the lucky one. A lot of my colleagues have lost their jobs.

"We have got good Lib Dem councillors and I would like to vote for them at the
general election, but I have got to decide whether it would be a wasted vote.
David Cameron is just Blair in Tory clothing: the consummate, glossy PR guy. I
want to see some conviction and the Lib Dems seem more in touch with ordinary
people."

Verdict "It is more or less what we expected. I am disappointed that they
haven't extended the stamp-duty holiday ... and I wish VAT was staying at 15 per
cent. Vince Cable made good sense, as usual."

The pub land lady

KimFox, 48, landlady of TheKingsway PreviousUsually Conservativenservative or
UKIP

"Ourtakingshave dropped 40per cent in thepast 15 months,butwe stillhave
thesamebills topay. Rolls-Royce arebig employers aroundhere. Theyhave beenlaying
off workers andlot ofour customershave lost their jobs so theydon'thave any
moneyto come tothepub for a drink. I am going to look at all theparties'
policies before Idecide this time, buta lotoof the young onesaroundhere say they
aregoing tovoteBNPor notat all. Iwould not vote BNPbecause I think they are
racist, but if Idon'tvote ToryImight voteUKIP."

Verdict "I thoughthe wouldannounce something to help small businesses,but
therewas nothing what so ever that is going tohelpus inthe current
climate.Therewas nocut inbeer tax esandno extension of the 15per cent VATrate."

The retired chartered engineer

Stanley Stevenson, 80 Previous Usually Conservative but once voted UKIP
Intention Conservative, UKIP or not at all

"They should have seen the economic crisis coming. It has hit every investor
hard and it has hit me hard. I have got reservations about the Conservatives,
though. They should have been able to tear Labour limb from limb before
breakfast, but none of them are capable of doing it. I will probably vote
Conservative, but perhaps UKIP because of their views on Europe and immigration.
What really saddens me is that I might not vote at all because I no longer have
faith in any of them."

Verdict "We should be making strenuous efforts to reduce our borrowing, but we
are not, and that may have serious consequences for the way the rest of the
world looks at us. Paying off the debt more quickly would be nasty medicine for
all, but it has got to happen."

The tactical voter

Mair Perkins, 22, student Previous First-time voter; Lib Dem in locals Intention
Undecided

"Ideally I would like the Green Party candidate, but I will vote tactically."
Her second choice is Lib Dem. Labour has "betrayed" its core supporters but she
might still vote for them to block the Conservatives, whom she blames for
unemployment in her family. "I always saw the Tories as the party interested in
keeping the rich people rich." She wants the Chancellor to "keep spending money
on education and the NHS and not keep focusing on boosting the economy and the
business side of things". There should be higher taxes on people who earn more
and cuts in wages, not welfare.

Verdict "Overall I am pleased. It sounds good, but it is a matter of waiting to
see if it works or not. I know a lot of critics are saying it isn't enough cuts
to make up for all the debt, but I don't like the idea of making too many
spending cuts."

The geologist

Rosemary Nye, 32, student and part-time customer service adviser at Homebase.
Living with parents. Previous Labour in 1997; did not vote in 2005 Intention
Almost certainly Conservative

"I am swinging towards the Conservatives because I like what I have seen of
David Cameron and Labour has not managed the country as well as it should have.
The Chancellor should be targeting the banks. When I went £2 over my overdraft
limit for two days, they charged me £60, but they still want to pay themselves
these massive bonuses, on top of their massive salaries, even though the
taxpayers have had to bail them out."

Verdict "The windfall tax on the banks was one of a few good things, but where
was the detail about how they are going to cut spending, how they are going to
get businesses to invest in the UK and how they are going to find jobs for
people made redundant? This is not going to change my vote."

The council tenant

Phil Raff le, 54, former general labourer, retired owing to disability Previous
Labour until late 1980s; Lib Dem since Intention Probably Lib Dem

Once a shop steward and staunch Labour voter, Mr Raff le now believes that the
Lib Dems are "the only ones that tell the truth". As a council tenant for more
than 30 years, he wants more funding for social housing, new council housing and
local councils to receive income from rent and sales directly. He and his wife,
Jane, rely on about £130 a week in benefits and he is concerned about welfare
cuts.

Verdict "I'm very definitely more unlikely [to swing back to Labour] with what I
have heard today. It is not good for anyone, and especially people in the public
sector. He wants to cap wage increases at 1 per cent but he is putting NI
contribution up so that pay rise is almost wiped out. I am glad [disability
benefit] is not being cut, but there's not a great deal in there."

The student campaigner

Jack Clemson, 21, student, hopes for career in higher education Previous
First-time voter Intention Labour or spoilt ballot

"I have flirted with the idea of voting Labour, but its higher education policy
will determine how I vote. None of the parties are being particularly
forthcoming about the direction they would take universities and that is
insulting to students. They need to openly declare their stance on tuition fees.
Right now, I am thinking of spoiling my ballot paper as a protest. This year
400,000 students graduated and joined a pool of 40,000 graduates from last year
who still have not managed to find a job."

Verdict Welcomed financial support for 10,000 undergraduates from poor
backgrounds to take up industry internships and extra help for unemployed people
under 24. "It has given me a bit more confidence in Labour. Osborne accused
Darling of electioneering but he was electioneering himself."

The mother of two

Jenny Merriman,, 45, looks after her two children and works part-time Previous
Labour Intention Labour or Lib Dem

Mrs Merriman might consider the Lib Dems, who "speak a lot of sense about social
welfare", as a change from her usual Labour vote. "Their money man, Vince Cable,
he is always worth listening to." She is very unlikely to vote for the
Conservatives because she believes that David Cameron lacks integrity. "I like
Gordon Brown because he is not particularly slick. I think that shows that he
believes in things." The Tories are "old-fashioned, white men, middle-aged". To
win her over they would need people who are more representative of women, less
advantaged people and ethnic minorities.

Verdict The national insurance and VAT rises "will make a bit of an impact, but
we all have to tighten our belts". The tax on bonuses "seems a good idea" and
she supports public sector pay caps.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photography Paul Rogers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Eurosceptics have clear choice at general election

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 126  words


RECENT developments should leave us in no doubt that David Cameron is a closet
Europhile. His criticisms of the EU have always been rare and muted, and he
continues to sit on the fence, trying to please both sides of the argument.

That won't do, as it means none of the major political parties will satisfy the
fast-growing number of Eurosceptic voters at the next general election.

Only some minor parties offer a truly tough stance on Europe, and UKIP is the
best of these; but with limited resources, it carries a huge handicap. Voters
should set their traditional allegiances aside if they hold Eurosceptic views
and get behind UKIP, because only it can halt the process of Britain becoming a
mere province of the EU superstate.

Geoffrey Woods, Watford, Herts

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

National: Political briefing: The outcome of this election is as uncertain as
any since 1974

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 478 words


Rory Bremner was around Westminster yesterday, joking that the newly-green
Gordon Brown is the kind of politician who goes about switching off Christmas
lights. Not at all, reply the Brownites. After eight recent opinion polls have
shown him closing the gap on David Cameron (38% to 30%), the PM is looking
forward to a jollier festive season.

When reading yesterday's Populus poll for the Times, the 8th in 12 since early
November that has put the Conservatives below the crucial 40% bar, sharp-eyed
professionals remain sombre enough to notice that the smaller parties have again
increased their share of the poll. With the Liberal Democrats up 2% to a healthy
20% the micro-parties are on 12% (2% down on October); the Greens and SNP on 3%;
the BNP on 2% and Ukip, both unchanged, on 4%, albeit on very small voter
samples.

That is still almost one in three votes not going to the old duopoly, though
macro-party pros confidently (never complacently) insist that hard work will
squeeze that slice of pie chart: in 2005 the small, mostly nationalist parties
took just 8%. The overall result was a Labour majority reduced to 66 seats on a
37%:33%:22% share of the pie.

Why so? Tory chairman, Eric Pickles, points to tactical voting in last June's
elections. The Tories won the Euro-elections with a modest 27.7%. Ukip narrowly
pushed Labour into third place (16.5% to 15.7%) with the Lib Dems on 13.7%, the
Greens on 8.6%, the BNP on 6.2%. But, locally, Tories performed better and made
244 gains because supporters did not cast protest votes in marginal seats that
mattered.

So Pickles says he does not mind the race tightening: it will be good for
turnout and party discipline. Labour veterans such as Ian McCartney, a party
chairman in his day, say much the same. At Labour constituency dinners up and
down the country, the mood has been transformed. "We can win after all,"
activists tell him. "It's for Cameron to lose," McCartney says, more cautiously.

Nick Griffin's higher profile since Question Time does not seem to have
benefited the BNP, though on Afghanistan, climate change and Europe he
articulates the doubts of many voters. More respectable Ukip does better,
apparently the chief beneficiary of protest over the MPs expenses scandal -
"Moatgate" - which will not go away this side of polling day. Tomorrow, 40,000
more tasty documents will be released to embarrass them.

Labour loyalists all say the same thing; that Cameron has failed to "seal the
deal" and that up to one third of Lib Dem voters could be persuaded to vote
Labour, equal to 5%. Economic optimism is growing, Brown is showing leadership
on Afghanistan and climate change, he's even making better jokes. Under
pressure, Cameron's one-man band is unconvincing.

Labour sceptics still remain unconvinced but, in truth, the outcome of the
coming election is as uncertain as any since February 1974.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Resist the urge to throw the voters red meat;
The Tory lead is shrinking, but that's no reason to change course. Don't forget
how much the old Tory brand put voters off

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1096 words


Some years ago, a friend of mine secured a job as the head of marketing for a
large chain of record stores. He had a huge campaign budget and a simple
objective - to inform the public that these traditional, well-known shops now
sold records at a discount, just like their younger competitors.

My friend and his colleagues made quite a splash with their ad material. You
really couldn't miss it. But at the end of the campaign the results were
disappointing. The vast majority of potential customers still didn't associate
the stores with discounting.

He told me this story because he was incredulous. Why, he asked, do politicians
and pundits believe that a couple of speeches and a policy announcement or two
are enough to change a brand's image? Don't they realise how hard it is? At the
top of the Conservative Party, recent opinion polls are inducing a slight
anxiety and a faint air of bemusement at the moment. I wouldn't put it stronger
than that. David Cameron himself doesn't really do bemusement and anxiety, and
most of his circle is little more than quizzical. But they wouldn't be human, or
real politicians, if they didn't look at the tightening in the polls over the
last couple of weeks and wonder: are they doing enough? But the bemusement is
not necessary - for really the answer is pretty straightforward. Changing the
Conservative Party's brand image is a very big job and it's not complete yet.

Let's eliminate a couple of suspects from the opinion poll inquiry. The Tory
lead has not been trimmed by the Prime Minister's class attack. There have been
a couple of stories suggesting that the Eton references have rattled the Cameron
team. They haven't. "We love this attack," confided one senior Conservative
player. "We want them to keep going." The Tories' polling, and The Times's for
that matter, shows that talking about Mr Cameron's schooling is a total flop.

Voters think that all politicians are out of touch, but - surprise, surprise -
they don't distinguish much between Harriet Harman's posh school (St Paul's
School for Girls) and George Osborne's (St Paul's School for Boys).

The Eton attack doesn't work even when linked to the policy on inheritance tax.
The Conservatives conducted intensive polling when they launched the policy and
now they have done so again. All the polling confirms the earlier finding.
People dislike inheritance tax, they think it is unfair in principle. And
there's a twist. Even when pressed on the dire state of Britain's finances and
the need to set priorities, they still want the Tory cut. They strongly back a
high threshold.

What about the opposite theory? It's not Labour attacks that are undermining the
Tory lead, it's the core vote turning to UKIP. The problem with this theory is
that it is, er, not true. Voters aren't turning to UKIP. The Tory vote dipped
slightly in The Times Populus poll published yesterday, but UKIP stayed steady.

Hang around Tory party members a bit and you will find out that they are
obsessed with UKIP. They actually know someone who delivers leaflets for them -
that guy who quit as Conservative Party branch secretary a couple of years back,
for instance, you remember him. But only 3 per cent of voters name Europe as an
important issue to them. In other words, even one quarter of the people planning
to vote UKIP don't think Europe matters. UKIP is the reddest of red herrings.

Which leaves us with the real suspect. The Conservative vote has never been high
enough or deep enough. Huge leads were produced by Labour's sudden and
calamitous collapse in support after Gordon Brown's lamentable response to the
expenses affair. Most of the trimming has been done by Labour's slow recovery as
memories of that event recede. It then only takes very small variations in the
Conservative vote to make things a little uncomfortable.

In his new, rather good book The Conservative Party from Thatcher to Cameron,
the academic Tim Bale provides a history of the Tories in the 15 years that
preceded Mr Cameron's ascent. Read it and it isn't hard to work out the party's
problem. For years it was speaking in a tone people didn't like, about issues
they didn't care about, advancing policies they didn't trust. When this didn't
work, the party simply tried it again.

Do this long enough and you make an impression that is hard to shift.

People have built up a view of Conservatives as unfeeling, out of touch,
opportunistic and uncaring about public services. This goes deep. It isn't so
much about policy as about the character of Tories. To win an election
convincingly, that view needs to change and it hasn't changed enough.

If you prefer figures to Dr Bale's historical analysis, try this. The first ICM
poll after the 1992 election, which Labour lost, showed it on 36 per cent. Five
years later it had gone up to 44 per cent. The first ICM poll after the 2005
election showed the Conservatives on 31 per cent and ICM now has them on 40 per
cent. In other words, modernisation has brought a massive gain, slightly greater
even than Tony Blair's. But the task was, and remains, bigger.

So the Tories need to show strategic discipline and return to the modernising
work they did in the early days of Mr Cameron's leadership. Talking about the
environment and posing with huskies was not an embarrassing PR stunt, it was a
masterstroke. Show Mr Cameron as a family man, talk about liberal social issues,
give surprising speeches at surprising events. These things work.

Strategic discipline also means talking about public services - the NHS, schools
- all the time. The public have to be sure the party cares, really cares.
Policies only matter to voters in so far as they demonstrate the character of
the future government. Emphasising that on the deficit "we are all in this
together" - the bit of George Osborne's conference speech that many right-wing
pundits hated - was precisely the bit that mattered most.

And it means broadening the leadership. A major vulnerability for the
Conservatives is dependence on David Cameron. Almost all the gain the party has
made has depended on public acceptance that he, personally, is a different kind
of Conservative. Other top figures need to be seen as Cameron Conservatives too.

Such discipline will be hard. For the Tories are about to be tested. Inside the
party and out they will be urged to turn away from all this image nonsense, to
get out there and champion populist issues, give voters more red meat. And if
they do that? They are sunk.

daniel.finkelstein@thetimes.co.uk

UKIP is not undermining the Tory lead. It is the reddest of red herrings

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terrible stunt? No, David Cameron's husky picture was a masterstroke

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 534  words


SHE may have well and truly put the cat among the pigeons courtesy of
revelations concerning her alcohol-fuelled, promiscuous past but I'm assured
Commons' Speaker John Bercow's other half Sally, pictured, is gaining cult
status in the UK Independence Party ranks.

Despite the fact that she's controversially due to stand as a Labour council
candidate in Westminster, Mrs Bercow has earned a growing army of fans over at
UKIP, whose former leader Nigel Farage will be challenging her husband for his
Buckingham seat at the general election.

As one UKIP stalwart explains: "The more Sally Bercow speaks the more she
inadvertently becomes one of UKIP's most potent political weapons in recent
memory."

WITH Radio 2 bosses having confirmed that Sir Terry Wogan will be fronting a new
live Sunday morning show from February, I'm reminded he runs the risk of losing
his two most famous listeners.

The Queen and Prince Philip are known to regularly tune in to Sir Terry's
breakfast show, which will come to an end when the Irishman makes way for Chris
Evans in the new year.

Indeed, just recently Her Majesty reportedly insisted on sitting next to Wogan
during a Windsor Castle dinner.

However, with Sir Tel's Sunday show scheduled to be broadcast from 11am to 1pm,
experts are quick to point out that this is less than ideal for his royal fans,
who as regular Christian worshippers, traditionally attend services at one of
their royal chapels at Buckingham Palace, Windsor or Balmoral at that time of
the day.

Perhaps he can arrange to have a weekly recording sent their way?

WHEN BBC political pundit Andrew Marr discussed with Chancellor Alistair Darling
whether it mattered that the likes of David Cameron and Zac Goldsmith went to
ultra-posh Eton College - after jibes by the Prime Minister that Tory tax
policies were devised "on the playing fields of Eton" - was it in fact a case of
the pots calling the kettle black?

Marr forgot to mention on his Sunday morning show that he and Darling are old
boys of the equally exclusive GBP 24,000-a-year public school Loretto, near
Edinburgh, which is Scotland's oldest independent boarding school.

ADVICE to those meeting TV presenter Vernon Kay, pictured - don't ask him if he
is related to fellow Boltonian, comedian Peter Kay. It is apparently a sore
subject.

Following the umpteenth enquiry from a fan, Family Fortunes host and DJ Vernon,
who is married to Strictly Come Dancing presenter Tess Daly, has Twittered in
exasperation that people keep asking him: "Is your brother Peter Kay? How many
times! ! ! ? ? ? ! ! ! ? ? ? ! ! ! ? ? ?"

For the record Vernon, 35, and Peter, 36, are not to our knowledge brothers.

JOHN PRESCOTT was quick to weigh in yesterday when viewers watching Sky's
coverage of Gordon Brown's live speech from The Royal Society in London had to
endure a sudden loss of sound.

A smug Prezza, who is embroiled in a feud with Sky's political correspondent
Adam Boulton, declared on Twitter:

"Watching Gordon's speech and Sky lost sound. Why trust them to do a Leader's
Debate? Thank God for the BBC."

Had the hapless former deputy prime minister actually been watching the Beeb's
coverage, he would have seen that it lost the sound at exactly the same time.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Diary: What do they want? Justice! Who do they want it for? Well, Conrad Black
for a start

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 641 words


The news is good - no, great - for all who campaign for the wronged and for
justice. Today Conrad Black will have another go at overturning his fraud
conviction in the US. His lawyers appear before the supreme court to argue
prosecutorial misconduct. Fingers crossed. Jeffrey Skilling, the former boss of
Enron, will also challenge his own conviction for so-called "honest services
fraud". And the trusty sword of truth is just as sharp here, for we learn that
our friend Ashley Mote, the former MEP for South East England who was disgraced
and jailed for nine months for benefit fraud, has had his case accepted for
examination by the Criminal Cases Review Commission. There is, regrettably, a
long way to go before exoneration. Indeed it may never come; the court of appeal
rejected his bid in 2007. But that was then. The man who apparently sought a BNP
endorsement when cruelly dumped by Ukip and who sat with the far-righters in the
now defunct Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty group, needs to know we support
him. We do, don't we?

More from the badlands of the European parliament, and a conversation overheard
in a lift in Brussels. "How are you enjoying your new group?" asks a friendly
type of one of David Cameron's allies in the Conservatives and Reformists
faction. "Half of them are mad," replies the MEP ruefully. "And that's just the
Tories."

With Copenhagen under way, the question must be asked: what is it about Labour
and motoring analogies? Last week, as we said, it was Paul Richards, the former
adviser to Hazel Blears, erroneously advising the party not to take its foot
"off the brake" on NHS reform. (And Paul, your retort about the Guardian and
typos did you no credit.) Then it was Ed Miliband warning that we "need to have
our foot on the gas all the time" to tame carbon emissions. Is Top Gear now the
source for Labour policy?

Yes, the truth will out, as it has with George Bush. For we now know - courtesy
of disclosures at the Iraq inquiry and an early-day motion tabled by Dai Davies
MP - that before the war Bush addressed the United Nations about US intentions
and UN resolutions - armed with the wrong speech. Left high and dry, he
ad-libbed the whole thing. We attacked Iraq, but it could so easily have been
Ethiopia. It was that close.

Thought for the day concerns HM Prison Albany on the Isle of Wight, where
pastoral types complain that in the run-up to Christmas, with so many sex
offenders serving their sentences, they have been cautioned against references
to the baby Jesus. Those so advised think the caution a little silly and have
apparently resolved to ignore it. Even if we are, as Richard Littlejohn
suggests, going to hell in a handcart, we are not there yet.

A feisty mob these health administrators. Baroness Young, who has left the Care
Quality Commission has been accused by the Mail on Sunday of having been beastly
to the staff. And Niall Dickson has left the building at the King's Fund (off to
run the General Medical Council). But it wasn't easy jumping ship. Oh, the
memories, he told his leaving party. There was the visit of Prince Charles, who
chairs the King's Fund and discovered the force of the jet from the taps in the
charity's bathrooms. It's "just like Mr Bean", he told Dickson, who didn't quite
understand. As they descended the main staircase to a waiting audience, the heir
to the throne re-enacted Mr Bean's soaked trousers sketch to general amazement.
The Goons, Bean, Norman Wisdom. Charlie can apparently do them all.

Yes, memories, memories. And who was the secretary of state (presumably health,
but not necessarily) whose office called ahead of a visit to the King's Fund to
warn the assembled pointyheads that the minister "doesn't do policy"? That one
will have to wait for Dickson's memoir. But in the meantime, they had better not
cross him.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

G2: A long road ahead: It was all looking so good for the Tories: an assured
leader taunting a government in tatters. But recently, criticisms of David
Cameron's background and his party's political inconsistency have hit home. Now
the prospect of a Conservative landslide seems to have disappeared. John Harris
reports

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3059 words


Seventeen miles south of Bath and a half-hour drive from Glastonbury, the
Somerset town of Frome is one of those English settlements that rather suggests
the country in microcosm. Bits of the townscape have a pinched, austere aspect,
though close by there are cafes and clothes shops brimming with chichi affluence
- walking around the place, you occasionally get the sense that you can traverse
the entire social spectrum in less than 50 yards.

The town forms the core of the constituency of Somerton and Frome - number 11 on
the Conservatives' target list, and currently held by the Liberal Democrats with
a majority of 812. On a swing of only 0.56%, it would fall to the Tories and be
represented by a new MP: 30-year-old Annunziata Rees-Mogg, daughter of the life
peer and establishment mainstay William Rees-Mogg and sister of the
Eton-educated Jacob, who just happens to be favourite to win the neighbouring
seat of North East Somerset.

Thus far, Rees-Mogg has crashed into the national headlines only once: last
week, when, with the rising noise of class warfare coming from Westminster,
there were reports of David Cameron bemoaning the number of Conservative
candidates with double-barrelled surnames, and suggesting - as a joke, his
people later claimed - she change her name to the altogether more approachable
"Nancy Mogg".

Frome, then, seems an appropriate setting for a thoroughly non-scientific
exercise: trudging the streets with an A4 picture of Cameron, and attempting to
find out what people make of our probable next prime minister. Who is he? What
words does he bring to mind? And what might he do with all that power?

"He's like the young Tony Blair," says 34-year-old Sean Kirtley, whom I grab as
he leaves a kitchen shop with his young daughter. "Politicians are all very
smooth these days, aren't they? Would I vote for him? I haven't made my mind up.
But he's obviously talented. And he's got more charisma than the man in power at
the moment."

Over the next hour or so, I make my way through the uncertain tangle of feelings
that will decide the next election. People talk about Cameron as an assured,
on-the-up kind of figure - and routinely contrast his skills with a sitting
prime minister who, true to recent reports, prompts a kind of sad sympathy. The
more malign stuff I hear about the Tory leader includes "no substance", "too
much of an opportunist", and "he's trying to get across that he's the common
man, but he isn't". Those with a more positive opinion mention his credentials
as a "family man", his air of winning confidence - and I have no great
difficulty finding people who think he should soon be in 10 Downing Street.

"I hope he gets in," says a thirtysomething mother who talks for England but
won't give me her name. She says she voted Liberal Democrat in 2005, but having
opted for the Tories in the past, she's now going to revive the habit. "He comes
across as an honest family man. I work in education, and I hope he'll make some
changes. I think education's underfunded, but I also think there's far too much
bureaucracy and paper-pushing. I know we're in massive debt, and he's probably
going to put taxes up. I don't want to pay more tax, but I'd rather pay tax
that's well spent. At the moment, it isn't."

At the top of the cobbled Catherine Hill, however, I get a rather more swingeing
verdict. The Little Red Cafe is the kind of small business that would surely
cause your average Cameroon to swoon - all beautiful coffee, home-made cakes and
retro-look fittings - but Liz Andrew, the co-proprietor, may not be their
easiest quarry. Her answers, in fact, would gladden those Labour politicians who
are currently trying to portray Cameron as Lord Snooty-gone-Thatcherite.

"What do I think?" she wonders, half-glaring at Cameron's portrait. "Slimeball.
He represents the kind of smarmy upper-middle-classness I don't like, really.
I've never been a fan. I wouldn't put my trust in him, put it that way."

I wonder: can she think of one story that sums up what puts her off?

"Probably the cycling to work thing," she says. "You know, with his limo driver
behind him."

As is now a Westminster cliche, the occasion in spring 2006 when the Daily
Mirror caught Cameron cycling to work while his chauffeur brought up the rear
with that day's paperwork has long been established as one of his biggest
mistakes. More than three years on, it still haunts him, and the fact that it is
fixed in some people's minds as a byword for chicanery and insincerity
crystallises another modern political commonplace: the Tory leader's supposed
failure to "seal the deal".

November was not exactly a glorious month for the Tories. First, Cameron bowed
to the inevitable and binned his supposedly "cast-iron guarantee" of a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty - to howls of protest from the Eurosceptic
right. At around the same time, some voices suggested that the Sun's shrill
noises-off about Gordon Brown's letter to the mother of a dead Afghanistan
veteran had tainted the Tories by association.

There were also ongoing mutterings about how the new Conservative emphasis on
cuts and austerity was backfiring, those revelations about Zac Goldsmith's
non-dom status, and Labour's attacks on Tory plans to effectively raise the
threshold of inheritance tax to a cool £2m. Small wonder, perhaps, that seven of
last month's 10 British opinion polls gave the Conservatives less than 40% - the
figure they need if they're to achieve a majority of Westminster seats.

Two weeks ago, moreover, the Observer ran an Ipsos MORI poll that put only six
points between Labour and the Tories, and it all went off: endless media chatter
about the rising chances of a hung parliament, and the possible dashing of all
kinds of Conservative hopes.

And so to the big question. In the summer of last year, when Brown's woes over
the abolition of the 10p tax rate fed into Tory poll leads of more than 20
percentage points, the great Conservative dream of a Blair-esque landslide
seemed within their reach. Why has that prospect now seemingly disappeared?

When I speak to Ipsos MORI's chief executive, Ben Page, he says he was surprised
by their last poll, and is at pains to remind me of Cameron's enviable personal
approval ratings - but eventually he explains some of what might be eating away
at the Tories' popularity.

First, Page mentions rising optimism about the state of the economy - according
to Ipsos MORI's research, the gap between positive and negative feelings about
the economy's prospects for next year is at its highest level for 12 years.
Next, he focuses on a general unease that seems to distance the Tories from some
of their potential supporters: "I think there are still issues about the fact
they haven't been tested in office. There are lots of people who don't like Old
Etonians, though a lot of them are concentrated in Labour seats. And there's
maybe a nagging anxiety about public services. None of those things are killer
factors, but there's a slight queasiness about the fact that 'These posh people
don't really understand real lives, and they're coming in to run to the
country.'"

Up at the University Of Strathclyde, the psephologist John Curtice talks about
the share of people who describe themselves as "Tory identifiers" - not just
Conservative voters but, in their own eyes, essentially Tory people. As things
stand, the numbers of Tory and Labour identifiers seem to be pretty much equal,
meaning that the Conservative poll lead is classically "soft" - made up of
people who, as he puts it, "have at least the potential to disappear".

Curtice continues: "The reason the Conservative party looks to be in a strong
position is, frankly, not because they're doing particularly well. It's just
that the Labour party is doing so badly. In terms of shares of the vote, no
government at this stage of a parliament has been as unpopular as this one. The
fact that Conservatives often have a double-digit lead is simply down to them
being on around 40 and the Labour party coming in under 30. And 40%, by
historical standards, is nothing."

Cameron, as Curtice acknowledges, has problems that Tony Blair never
experienced. Most fundamentally, unlike New Labour, the Tories are faced with an
electoral system with an in-built bias against them: it must seem particularly
cruel that Labour got a majority of seats in 2005 on a mere 35.3% of the vote.
Consider also the seismic impact of the expenses crisis, and how it has squashed
the prospect of any vast outpouring of enthusiasm for mainstream politicians. In
1997, Labour was able to wage war on so-called Tory "sleaze" and trade on the
expectation of politics somehow being redeemed, which contrasts sharply with the
across-the-board cynicism that represents one of Cameron's biggest obstacles.

And then there is the problem posed by all those increasingly popular "other"
options, in particular the UK Independence party. When I call Nigel Farage - who
recently stepped down as his party's leader, but remains a zealous Ukip
mouthpiece - he does exactly what you'd expect, revelling in his party's current
status as troublemakers to Cameron's right.

"I spent some time last weekend in Norfolk," Farage tells me. "I stayed at a
country house, and went shooting with seven land-owning, farming-stroke-business
Norfolk types. One of the people I shot with gives the party a very large sum of
money every year. That's just one segment of England, but it's what you would
call classic Tory territory.

"For them, the breach of the promise on a treaty referendum is pretty
fundamental stuff. They're also becoming increasingly uncomfortable about the
whole issue of global warming. Cameron's encouragement and support for wind farm
projects, a belief in increasing green taxes - well, that's the second area
where they find themselves at total variance to him. The third is tax, where the
acceptance of the 50p band links into the idea that there's no real difference
between him and Labour. The fourth I would go with, which came through very
strongly in Norfolk, was education: the fact that Cameron has turned his back on
the principle of selective education."

He finishes with a menacing flourish: "Over the last few years, there are
Conservative sources who have said the Ukip intervention at the last general
election cost the Tories 28 seats. There are signs that with Ukip where it is in
the opinion polls today, we might cost them 50. And that could mean Cameron will
not get a majority."

If Farage sounds characteristically full of himself, it may be some token of
these strange political times that you do not have to try too hard to find a
similar fighting spirit among Labour party insiders. For all Labour's miseries,
some pizzazz has returned to their campaigning, as seen in last month's online
wheeze, whereby Cameron and Osborne were done up as The X Factor's
joke-cum-phenomenon John and Edward, with the words: "You won't be laughing if
they win." The idea came from Labour's ad people at Saatchi & Saatchi -
according to one Downing Street insider, approving it "was a no-brainer; there
was no research involved, but even we were surprised at how much it took off".

There is, of course, a you-would-say-that element to Labour people's views of
Cameron's alleged weaknesses - but it's hard to doubt at least some of what they
say. Their essential charge is that many of the undecided voters Cameron needs
to seduce are not convinced the Tories have undergone any kind of
transformation. This chimes with a recent Populus poll, in which only 28% of
people agreed the party has "really changed".

There is also, they claim, a palpable unease about the Tory leader. "People kind
of like Cameron; in lots of ways, his scores would be pleasing," says Deborah
Mattinson, Gordon Brown's personal pollster. "But underlying that is a sort of
scepticism. Put it this way: the car and bike thing really sticks. Even now, I
rarely do a focus group where that isn't mentioned spontaneously by somebody.
It's one of those things that's stuck, and the reason is it speaks to a truth
that people identify about him. There's something about him that doesn't quite
ring true. That's very clear, and he's never managed to make it go away."

On the proviso that the observation is completely off-the-record, one Labour
high-up tells me that Cameron's self-appointed role as the supposed heir to
Blair may be working against him: "When people kind of fell in love with Blair,
they hadn't really seen a politician like that before. Cameron is positioning
himself in quite a similar way, and you know what? They've seen it before, and
in the end, they didn't like it. It became very toxic, and I think there's a
halo effect from that which is personally contaminating for Cameron."

Then there is this season's great political hoo-ha: class, the Tory leader's
elevated background, and the fact that Labour has lately decided to start
talking about it. There may be more of an appetite for this tactic than some
people would like to think: according to last week's Sunday Times, 47% of people
polled agreed with the assertion that Cameron is "too wealthy and privileged to
represent ordinary people", and 52% endorsed the idea that the Tories are "still
the party of the rich".

At the weekend, the privately educated Alistair Darling and the work and
pensions secretary Yvette Cooper attempted to ratchet down the political attacks
focusing on Cameron's Eton schooling, which points up an interesting unease
among most of the Labour people I talk to. There again, echoing Ipsos MORI's Ben
Page, one Labour pollster I speak to says that among the voters they meet,
Cameron's background is undoubtedly an issue: "What it plays to is, 'Are they in
touch with me? I'm a mum living in Harlow, working for £7.50 an hour and getting
my kids to the childminder - what does he know about my life?'"

What's perhaps most telling is that it is not just archetypal lefties who point
to the political salience of all this. "We did really heavy-duty polling over
the summer," says Chris Fox, the Liberal Democrats' director of policy and
communications. "One of the things we did was take 20 or 30 people in the
south-west who said they were thinking about voting Conservative, and spent four
hours with them. The overriding thing that came out was even people who were
thinking about voting for them weren't doing it because of any real endorsement
of their values. And as soon as you got them to pick imagery for the Tory party,
it was all about class, looking after one part of society, and all those things.
That's in the south-west; further north, it becomes even more ingrained."

So what can the Tories do? "It would be much better, psychologically and in
campaigning terms, to be above 40%," says a high-ranking member of the shadow
cabinet and Cameron ally. "But you can spend forever checking your pulse. The
important thing is to be match-fit."

Among other things, he tells me that the Tories should be worrying far more
about "aspirational centrists" than disaffected voters on the right, and agrees
that with six months or so until the general election, there is much work to do
on the kind of clear and punchy message that New Labour managed 12 years ago.

Having said that, he agrees a Tory version of 1997 would be unthinkable,
pointing to the expenses crisis - and the damage done to the Westminster elite
by the financial crash and recession - as the key reason why the outcome of the
next election will feel altogether more equivocal. "It's very, very rare that
you've had an opposition leader who has exercised the kind of supremacy that
Blair did. The crucial thing there was, while the Tories were deeply tarnished
and compromised, the opposition was fresh and untainted. The problem now is that
all politicians are tarnished and compromised, and therefore the idea that you
would invest hope in any politician is a lot more difficult."

The essential message coming out of the highest Tory circles is simple enough:
in such hard and doom-laden times, you bin your expectations of a landslide,
assume a much more realistic view of the world, and understand that only power
will allow you to seal any kind of deal. Comparing an Old Etonian with British
history's most famous grocer's daughter isn't the easiest business, but there
are Conservative voices who point to Margaret Thatcher's uncertain place in the
public's affections as leader of the opposition, and hold out the idea that
Cameron and his people may be able to approximate the route that eventually led
to her dominance of politics in the 1980s.

Still, there is a twitchiness around the Tory leadership - partly reflected in
the way Cameron seems to be hyperactively bouncing all over the political
spectrum, and from issue to issue. A fortnight ago, he was endorsing the Tory
guru Phillip Blond's expansive vision of "Red Toryism", only to then expend no
little energy bemoaning the bog-standard Daily Mail straw man that is Health and
Safety. Towards the end of November, the Tories went on the offensive over the
decline of marriage; yesterday, Cameron spoke to the single-parent pressure
group Gingerbread. Underneath just about everything they do, perhaps, is an
unresolved personality-split between their cuddly "progressive" side, and the
part of them that cannot let go of the crabby, moralistic politics that are
still threaded into the Tories' DNA. The upshot: none of the choreographed
consistency that New Labour showed as they glided towards power in the
mid-1990s.

So, the Conservatives may well take Somerton and Frome, and Crawley, and Harlow,
and Cardiff North, and plenty of their other target seats, but even some of
their own people think they might not get a majority at Westminster - at which
point, we will plunge into a scenario we have not seen in well over 30 years.

Last week, I asked a high-ranking shadow minister what they thought was the most
likely outcome of the next election. "A minority Conservative government," he
told me. "But then again, I'm the most pessimistic person I know."

Captions:

David Cameron is still haunted by the day he was caught cycling to work, with
his driver following behind

Photograph: Scott Barbour/Getty

Is he really a younger, bluer Tony Blair? Photograph: Jonathan Buckmaster

Tory candidate Annunziata Rees-Mogg - or Nancy Mogg, as Cameron would have her.
Photograph: Karen Robinson

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

National: Simon Hoggart's sketch: Ukip's leader is a ghost of Tories' past

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 500 words


The Tories must be glad that the new leader of Ukip left their party years ago.
At a time when David Cameron is trying to shorten the names of any Tory who
sounds even slightly toffish, the last thing he wants is another old Etonian,
especially one named Malcolm Everard MacLaren Pearson, Baron Pearson of Rannoch.
I suspect that he would be even less willing than Annunziata Rees-Mogg (Nancy
Mogg) to have his name shortened to, say, Mal Pearce.

What's more, M.E.M.P.B.P.O.R has a set of views - being anti-gay, anti-Muslim
and pro almost any form of hunting - which would curl the neck hair of Tory
frontbenchers such as Georgie Oz, Andy Lans, Frankie Maude and others, some of
whose names have been conveniently pre-shortened, such as Tess May, Bill Hague
and Eric Pickles. And Lord Pearson received £100,000 over six years by claiming
that his £3.7m house in London was his second home. And he owns 12,000 acres in
Scotland. In short, he is everything Davy Cam is trying to get rid of, or at
least brush under the carpet.

Anyhow, Lord Pearson is now in office, and has annoyed many in Ukip by saying
that if the Tories ever promised a referendum on our continued membership of the
EU he would disband his own party. Yesterday in the House of Lords he asked the
government whether they would hold a referendum.

The answer, from Glenys Kinnock, was "no". She added that his offer to liquidate
his own party was a "rather original approach to leadership".

In fact, everyone patronised him, and once you have been patronised by their
lordships, you stay patronised. Lord Tomlinson announced gravely that Lord
Pearson had shown "a standard of leadership which screams that the other party
leaders do not have a great deal to worry about". Lord Dykes, a peer who
believes we will be better off governed by Belgians and Luxembourgeois, who know
better than we do how to govern ourselves, said it was an eccentric state of
affairs. Lord Pearson qualified for the Guinness Book of Records as the only new
party leader who had caused a mass resignation three days after he had taken
office. Lord Pearson will not, I suspect, fret too much about this criticism.

Back in the Commons, Liam Byrne, who is number two at the Treasury, was making a
statement with the risky title of "smarter government". This seemed to involve
cutting the deficit by saving money. But no member of this government could ever
say anything so simple. Instead, Mr Byrne, who collects jargon like Madonna
collects babies, told us his plans would "make it easier for civic society to
contribute to public life by pressing ahead with the new social investment bank
and by testing social impact bonds". He would also "free up the front line to
innovate collaborate (sic) by cutting back on ring-fenced budgets and national
targets . . . joint ventures and regulatory flexibility".

The low droning sound of Mr Byrne describing his incomprehensible plans was
suddenly cut by an agonised cry from Sir Patrick Cormack: "Can you PLEASE speak
English?"

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

The new 45-minute claim - it's all about timing

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 850 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Tory MP Adam Holloway's assertion that the 45-minute WMD claim
came from an Iraqi taxi driver is an interesting detail but not much more

FULL TEXT

In politics, as in life - or email leaks ahead of the Copenhagen climate
conference - timing matters. With another opinion poll closing the gap between
Labour and the Tories we can expect plenty more like this morning's ".

What? You haven't heard? Tory MP Adam Holloway has talked to a chap who has
talked to other chaps. Lots of these chaps now believe that one of the chaps
from whom they used to get information in Saddam Hussein's Iraq may have got
some of it from a chap who was, professionally speaking, a taxi driving chap in
Iraq's western desert.

Well, I never. Intelligence culled under pressure for results from the boss
class, obtained from doubtful sources. The Beast's account of the process
reminds me of working for the kind of newspaper where the news the newsdesk
wants to fit the headline is what gets printed. They know all about that at the
Beast.

The purpose of this morning's cabbie exercise is to prime the public for ex-M16
and joint intelligence committee (JIC) chairman Sir John Scarlett's evidence
today at the Chilcot committee's inquiry. I expect you can follow that train of
thought too. The target, as ever, is Tony Blair.

Since most of the reporting of the inquiry so far has been firmly located within
the same parameters I'm trying to carve out some time to read the evidence for
myself. In that miracle of our times it is mostly on the inquiry website.

Meanwhile what of ? He's a typical Cameroon Tory, private school at Cranleigh,
Cambridge, the Grenadier Guards and - whoops - a stint as an ITV and World in
Action journalist in the investigative branch of the trade. He became an MP
after taking Gravesham in Kent from child poverty expert, Chris Pond, in 2005.

That background would explain the cloak-and-dagger stuff about Iraqi cabbies
(journalists abroad rely a lot on cabbies) and also why Holloway has written a
good piece () in today's Daily Beast.

As I've argued before, none of it tells us much we didn't know before, any more
than  tells us much: the prewar planning for the occupation was a shambles.

Why? Because the dominant faction in Washington, the arrogant neocons at the
Pentagon and White House who didn't think there would be a problem, prevailed
over the state department, Colin Powell in tandem with Tony Blair.

No 10 couldn't plan much here either, albeit for different reasons: the
unpopularity of the coming war with many people in Britain and the need to keep
stressing a negotiated solution until the last minute.

So the Iraqi cabbie's tip about those famous weapons of mass destruction (WMD),
is a good detail, if true, of course, but not much more.

Where Holloway - a bit of an action man among fellow-MPs - goes astray is in
suggesting that few senior military men were willing to jeopardise career and
promotion by disagreeing over policy with each other or the politicians about
the war or the British occupation of the four southern provinces of Iraq.

He gives the impression that what he calls "the good news only culture" is a New
Labour development. It's a common mistake among Tory analysts for obvious human
reasons. In Peter Oborne's The Rise of Political Lying he claims that Margaret
Thatcher only lied twice, bless her.

If only life were that simple. The chiefs of staff, who can waste public money
as well as any town hall chief executive, were always complaining about
financial shortages under the Tories. After all, it was Tory defence cuts which
triggered the Falklands War of 1982 - quite directly.

But it's not all the Tories' fault either. It's endemic and I am surprised that
a bright chap like Adam Holloway hasn't read Andrew Gordon's The Rules of the
Game - isn't it obligatory at Sandhurst?. It brilliantly sets out in magnificent
detail the time-serving, bureaucratic misery that was the late Victorian Navy.
At the Battle of Jutland (1916) it almost cost Britain the first world war.

Never mind, there's an election looming and a young thruster, Holloway is 44,
must do what a chap must do to get a job from Prime Minister Cameron. Yes, I
still assume Cameron will prevail, though  Labour has squeezed the gap to
38:30:20 % - not bad for a "beaten" party.

That translates as Tories down 1%, Labour up 1%, Lds up 2%. But the significant
figure, as Peter Riddell points out, is surely the rise of other parties - the
Nats, Ukip, BNP etc - as the main parties' appeal erodes. That's the one to
watch with its unpredictable consequences.

Footnote: the poll also widespread disdain for Eton-bashing (that doesn't mean
it doesn't work, mind you) and a public broadly split over the decision to
reinforce British troop levels in Afghanistan.

Women and the unskilled are more sceptical than men and the educated. No
surprise there either then.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Ian Plimer's uncritical coverage in the hacked emails row is frustrating

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 727 words

ABSTRACT

Bob Ward: The 'expert sceptic' is a mining geologist whose academic credibility
is based on a book riddled with dodgy graphs

FULL TEXT

One of the many frustrations for climate change researchers arising from the
current  has been the way that so-called sceptics have been given so much
uncritical coverage by journalists who are not properly scrutinising their
misleading and inaccurate claims.

Take , for instance, who is now wheeled out by many sceptic groups who are
seeking a veneer of academic credibility.

Prof Plimer helped the UK Independence party last week to launch its declaration
of climate change denial and is a member of the academic advisory board of Lord
Nigel Lawson's new lobby group, .

Plimer is gaining lots of new publicity as an "expert sceptic" from parts of the
UK media, with numerous TV and radio interviews,  and even a .

The trouble is that Professor Plimer is not a climate researcher and has not
published any scientific papers on the change in climate that we have been
witnessing over the past century. He is an Australian mining geologist who
gained fame in his native country for publicly tackling creationists over their
denial of the evidence for evolution.

But Prof Plimer has published a book,  which has become the bible for many
climate change sceptics. His book is riddled with inaccurate information about
climate change.

The very first graph in the book, for instance, purports to show temperature
observations and projections between 1990 and 2025. One of the lines on this
graph is labelled "HADCRUT", indicating that the data source was, allegedly, the
and the .

However, almost none of the data points accurately reflect the official records
from the source, and 2008 is completely misrepresented as the coldest year since
1993. Elsewhere in his book, Professor Plimer claims 2007 was the coldest year
since 2005, contradicting his own graph, and also disagreeing with all of the
official records of global temperature.

But perhaps the most staggering inaccuracy is in the third graph in his book,
which is supposed to show global average temperature between 1880 and about
2002. It appears to show that the amount of global warming prior to 1945 was
much bigger than that since the late 1970s. This is in complete contrast to the
official records maintained by the Met Office, Nasa and the US National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, which all show that the warming since the 1970s
has been much greater.

So what is the origin of Prof Plimer's alternative record of global
temperatures? The book does not cite a source and Prof Plimer has so far refused
requests to reveal its provenance.

But  that it was identical to a graph used in the very first broadcast of the
discredited UK TV programme . Soon after it was broadcast in March 2007, the
programme-makers admitted that the graph had been altered by taking an original
graph (posted on a website to collect names on a petition against ratification
of the Kyoto protocol by the United States), purporting to show global
temperatures up to the mid-1980s.

They had wanted a more up-to-date graph and so had simply stretched the bottom
axis and relabeled it as if it extended up to the present. As a result they
missed out all of the warming that has occurred since the mid-1980s, giving the
false impression that more warming had occurred before 1945.

When a , the programme-makers dropped it from repeat broadcasts and the DVD
version. But Prof Plimer appears to have revived it.

Now he is being interviewed around the world as an "expert sceptic" on climate
change with some newsworthy alternative views to "balance" the mainstream
consensus among researchers. And his dodgy graphs and inaccurate claims about
global temperatures are being portrayed by some parts of the media as a
"different side of the story", when really they are just mistakes presented as
fact.

· Bob Ward is policy and communications director at the

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 594 words


Time to give our MPs a break, says Iannucci

Quick! Call Malcolm Tucker - we've got someone going seriously off-message.

As creator of the cult Westminster-based satirical comedy The Thick Of It,
Armando Iannucci has spent the past few years making the lives of our Honourable
Members uncomfortable. Now, however, he appears to be having a change of heart.

The Scottish screenwriter, who won the best screenplay gong at Sunday's British
Independent Film Awards, claims he has started to feel a little sorry for MPs,
who are top of everyone's hitlists following the summer's expenses revelations.

"We expect them to work 24 hours a day," Iannucci pleads. "They should run the
country from nine until five, five days a week. There should be a half-day
closing on a Saturday and all day Sunday.

"The problem is that they can't function any more because they haven't had time
to think. It's the Government advisers and the Treasury that run the country
now."

Still, his newfound remorse isn't enough to deter him from further mischief.
"Oh, I'd like to do some more [of The Thick Of It]," he insists. "I've got
thoughts about where it could go next year."

No sighs of relief from the Westminster village just yet, then.

Obama reveals an iPod favourite

* Perhaps Barack Obama isn't quite the pop-culture savvy young hipster we had
him down to be.

The Beyonce-loving commander-in-chief appears to have an unlikely soft spot for
middle-of-the road dad rocker Sting. The pair met earlier this year, when the
former Police frontman played at Obama's inauguration ball. "He said to me,
'You're on my iPod'," gushes Sting in this month's MOJO magazine. "I said, 'I
bet you say that to everybody!' He said, 'No, really - you are'." Oh, say it
isn't so!

Caine's World Cup mutiny

Possibly the only football fan in Britain not to celebrate England's place in
the World Cup draw is Sir Michael Caine. "They're playing a match up in the
mountains where there's no air," the veteran actor grumbles. "They've all got to
sleep in a oxygen tent so they can go out on the field. I mean, we thought we
had a great thing - but suddenly they're up a mountain playing football."

Not that he will be in attendance. "Actually I went to the final in Berlin and
everybody said to me afterwards, 'What did you think about that thing with
Zidane?' We never knew anything about it because he hit the guy up the other
end. So I'm staying at home with the television in the future."

Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice...

* Congratulations to Vic Matcham, Ukip's new election candidate for Dover.
Matcham, an ex-boxer who once fought Frank Bruno, is sure to keep local wags
amused. As a Dover town councillor, he once had the dubious honour of being
duped by a fake Francis Rossi. Matcham was persuaded to lay on a lavish display
of hospitality for a conman imitating the Status Quo star, who explained his
lack of trademark ponytail by saying "a fake one is stuck on three hours before
a gig". Just the sort of safe hands we need to run the country.

Silverton's got the X Factor

* The festive season is upon us, and it is time for Pandora's very own Christmas
appeal - namely, to get Kate Silverton a record deal. The well-groomed BBC
newsreader stunned us with her tuneful renditions at Children In Need (we
thought only Fiona Bruce could sing).

"I always love singing," Silverton, pictured, tells us. "That performance was
the product of many years' singing into a hairbrush. I was constantly trying to
prove to my sisters that I could do it." Hottest unsigned act in Britain, we
say.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories on track but it's a bumpy ride

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words


David Cameron is still the most likely occupant of No 10 in six months' time,
but it may be a nerve-racking ride before then. The latest Populus poll,
undertaken over the weekend, confirms the recent trend: 8 of the 12 polls
published since early November have put the Tories below 40 per cent, against
only one of the previous 25.

The tightening should not be exaggerated. These are still only one-point shifts
and the Tories are well ahead, but the average Labour vote has firmed up from 23
to 29 per cent on average since March.

The Populus analysis knocks down some explanations. First, the narrowing Tory
lead does not appear to be because fewer Labour voters are switching to the
Tories. Second, Labour supporters are not becoming more likely to vote.
Certainty to vote among Labour supporters has fallen in the past two months.
Third, while the proportion of 2005 Tory voters saying that they would back the
party has fallen since early this year, there is no clear link with voting
intentions.

The biggest change since the spring has been in Liberal Democrats and others, up
from 27 to 32 per cent. The Tories may have suffered from Mr Cameron's decision
to abandon a referendum on the Lisbon treaty. Support for the UK Independence
Party is about 4 per cent, double the level of the early autumn.

There has also been a pick-up in economic optimism. The number of people
thinking that the economy will do well over the next year has roughly doubled to
35 per cent, while the proportion believing that it will do badly has dropped
from 79 to 62 per cent. Views on personal and family prospects have shifted
less, but are now positive.

Not surprisingly, the number expecting a Tory overall majority has fallen from
50 to 47 per cent this month, against 57 per cent in October. The number
thinking that a Labour majority is likely has risen this month from 16 to 19 per
cent. Over the past month expectations of a hung Parliament have dropped from 26
to 22 per cent, but this is still up from 17 per cent in October. And don't
knows are up from 8 to 12 per cent.

Nevertheless, despite all these movements, three fifths of voters still think
that the Tories will be the largest single party after the election. Labour
believes/hopes that it is back in the game, but it is still four to one down.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

Speaker may lose his seat after wife criticises Cameron

BYLINE: Rosa Prince Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445  words


JOHN Bercow, the Commons Speaker, may struggle to hold his seat at the next
election as Conservative voters, angry at outspoken comments made by his wife,
threaten to defect to the UK Independence Party.

It emerged that if he does survive, a number of Tory MPs are considering trying
to topple him as Speaker after Sally Bercow, who hopes to become a Labour
candidate, gave an interview in which she criticised David Cameron in highly
personal terms.

By convention, Speakers are elected unopposed, and both Labour and the Liberal
Democrats have agreed not to field a candidate in Mr Bercow's Buckingham
constituency.

But Nigel Farage, who stood down as Ukip leader last week in order to
concentrate on fighting the seat, said that he was attracting the support of
Conservatives angry at Mrs Bercow's comments.

As well as her attack on the Tory leader, the Speaker's wife irritated many in
the constituency by saying that it would be against her principles to send the
couple's three children to be educated in local grammar schools, which are
prized by many in the area.

She also raised eyebrows with a frank account of her promiscuous youth, in which
she described drinking heavily and engaging in one-night stands with men she met
in bars.

Her remarks about Mr Cameron, whom she labelled a "merchant of spin'', have led
Tory MPs to discuss challenging Mr Bercow when he is required to seek
re-election as Speaker following the poll.

It is customary for sitting Speakers to be returned unopposed.

But one backbencher, Nadine Dorries, said: "When a new parliament sits, we MPs,
at a strategic moment, have the opportunity to shout 'no' when the motion to
reinstate the Speaker is announced. I reckon it's going to be a fairly loud
chorus.''

Having started out on the Right of his party, Mr Bercow is said to have become
increasingly liberal since meeting his wife.

His election as Speaker was secured largely with the backing of Labour MPs.

Although the Speaker's seat is one of the safest in the country, with a Tory
majority of more than 18,000, Mr Farage said that he was hopeful he could topple
Mr Bercow.

"Voters here feel that it is wrong that under convention there is no contest,
and that effectively their vote wouldn't count, so they are glad that Ukip is
standing,'' he said.

"Even though it's a safe Conservative seat, a majority of people didn't vote for
him last time, and hopefully we can do well.

"They are a bit cautious, but we are starting to see Tories defecting to us.''

Yesterday, The Daily Telegraph spoke to four Conservative voters, including two
party activists, who said that they would vote for Mr Farage at the general
election, which must be held by June.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 7, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

France's new camps for migrants sneaking to UK;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: LEADER; 15

LENGTH: 418  words


A NETWORK of new camps has been set up for immigrants trying to sneak into
Britain from France, the Daily Express can reveal.

Three centres offering a range of services for migrants hoping to make their way
to the UK have been established close to major transport routes to the Channel
ports over the past six weeks.

And a facility has opened in Calais within yards of the busy ferry rminal that
provides Britain's main transport link to the Continent.

The camps at Steenvoorde, Bailleul and the latest at St Omer, are equip ped with
tents providing beds, cooking facilities, clothing stores, medical care and
advice on how to claim asylum.

The centres at Steenvoorde and Bailleul, next to the A25 motorway leading to
Calais and Dunkirk, opened last month. The centre at St Omer, next to the A26
Paris to Calais motorway is set to open this week.

Yesterday as migrants queued for a midday meal in Calais, one helper said: "We
are here to help them on their way. They don't want to stay in France. They want
England because they want a passport, a house and a job."

All the centres have been approved by the French authorities and have a licence
to provide a place for the migrants to "rest and recuperate".

Other unofficial camps continue to spring up along the coast and there have been
outbreaks of violence. At Dunkirk one migrant was killed last week in a knife
fight with a people trafficker.

The camps have opened despite pledges from Paris to crack down on illegal
immigration and make Calais "watertight".

Every night migrants leave the camps to try to break into lorries going to
Britain.

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "Unless we introduce tough controls
on immigration and a proper border police force Britain will continue to be a
magnet for people trying to smuggle their way into this country."

Ukip Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "France's commitment to dealing with migration
is looking increasingly like Napoleon's commitment to the continental system. To
all intents and purposes they are rebuilding a series of forts along the Channel
to prepare for an invasion."

The Home Office said France was sharing the burden in keeping illegal immigrants
out of Britain. Brodie Clark, head of UK Border Force, said: "UK Border Agency
officers work day and night alongside French counterparts to keep the border
secure.

"We have also invested in technology to boost searches of vehicles and goods
heading for Britain.

Last year we stopped 28,000 attempts to cross the Channel and searched one
million lorries."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigrants in Calais at the weekend. 'They don't want to stay in
France. They want England, ' said a helper

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 7, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP can help us wrest power from EU's elite;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 47

LENGTH: 163  words


THANK you for publishing the article by Lord Pearson, leader of the UK
Independence Party ("I believe UKIP is the best party to rescue our nation",
December 4).

Voters are increasingly turning to UKIP, such is the lack of choice offered by
politicians of other mainstream parties. UKIP faces an uphill struggle, but is
our only hope if we are to escape French and German control.

We survived before Edward Heath moved Heaven and Earth to get us into the former
Common Market and we can easily shift into reverse gear if UKIP gets elected (or
David Cameron can find the courage).

We have our own treaty in place, Magna Carta, which has existed for hundreds of
years. It took power away from the monarch and placed it with the people;
clearly, our politicians do not like it but it is still in force.

A citizens' uprising would be met head-on and put down by the Brussels special
elite. But it can do nothing if we vote for a fresh start at the election in
2010.

J Bodkin, Whitland, Dyfed

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VISIONARY: Lord Pearson, the leader of UKIP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 7, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

All Darling has left to gamble... our future

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words


ALISTAIR DARLING, never a betting man, will sit down this week and play poker
with the world's biggest card sharks.

Stakes are terrifyingly high. The Chancellor is gambling with our jobs, our
homes and the future prosperity of the United Kingdom.

And it is all bluff. He has no aces, no trumps - no chips.

There is just one last precious heirloom the Chancellor can throw on the table -
the reputation of Great Britain plc.

His task is to persuade international money markets our word is still our bond.

When he reveals his hand in Wednesday's Pre-Budget Report, he must do more than
show Britain is good for the £800BILLION it has already borrowed - the biggest
black hole since the Second World War.

He must also convince creditors they can safely carry on lending to the UK at
the shocking rate of £180billion this year alone - up from £35billion last year
- and endless billions more in years to come.

To make matters harder, the Chancellor is playing two poker games at once.

He must soothe money lenders by cutting spending, while simultaneously trying to
stem a mutiny among the victims of those cuts - six million Government workers,
many of them Labour voters.

His best card is a freeze on public sector pay, saving almost £40billion over
the next three years.

But is that enough to reassure the big institutions we rely on to prop up our
debt? Or too little too late to stop them walking away and taking their
much-needed money with them?

Swipe

If they walk, they will wreck our triple-A credit rating and we will have to pay
much more interest on future borrowing, with devastating consequences for the
already creaking economy.

While Mr Darling takes on the high rollers, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is
trying to distract our attention with a popular swipe at bankers' bonuses,
including a possible windfall tax.

That might take the punters' minds off all the bad news, but it will cut little
ice with giant institutions who live by the bonus culture.

Meanwhile, the really tough decisions - tax hikes and even bigger spending cuts
- will be left until after the elections next May.

The risk is that the roof could fall in before then.

Mr Darling is gambling he won't go down as the Chancellor who put Labour's
electoral chances ahead of the nation's economic interest - or snuffed out a
fragile recovery by pruning too savagely now.

Tough medicine is already on its way. After a year at 15 per cent, VAT will
shoot back to 17.5 per cent in the New Year. Some believe it will rise even
further, perhaps to 20 per cent, whoever wins the election.

The car scrappage scheme is about to dry up, putting the motor industry back on
the rack.

Top tax rates will jump from 40 per cent to 50 per cent - and the Tories have no
plans to reverse them.

None of this is enough to address the real problem - Britain will soon be
borrowing as much each year as we earn. The gap next year will be the biggest in
the Western world. We are the last country in the G-20 richest nations to still
be in recession.

And having once enjoyed a lofty position as the world's fourth largest economy,
we have now fallen to seventh and are likely to drop out of the Top Ten
altogether in three years. Once-proud Britain now ranks alongside discredited,
near-bankrupt economies such as Ireland, Spain and Greece.

Bank of England governor Mervyn King, who has printed an extra £200billion of
funny money, warns we cannot carry on like this.

Unless we carry out far more serious spending cuts, including an attack on the
public sector's gigantic £1.4TRILLION pension liability, the rest of the world
will lose faith and plunge Britain into a full-scale Sterling crisis.

Others fear turning off the tap too ruthlessly could plunge us into a "double
dip" recession, with high inflation and a generation of permanently unemployed
young people.

As he takes his place at the green baize table, "Lucky" Darling is not the only
one entitled to look around and ask: "Who dealt this rotten hand?"

'A TORY Government can't dump another Speaker so soon after Michael Martin -
despite the weirdness of John Bercow and his wife Sally, who admits smoking pot
at school.

She revelled in drunken one-night stands while he, despite being elected as a
Conservative, is widely regarded as a Labour sympathiser. Voters in Buckingham
may have the solution. They could dump Bercow at the next election and vent
their feelings about Brussels at the same time by picking UKIP's Nigel Farage in
his place.'

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 7, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

All Darling has left to gamble... our future

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1555 words


ALISTAIR DARLING, never a betting man, will sit down this week and play poker
with the world's biggest card sharks.

His best card is a freeze on public sector pay, saving almost £40billion over
the next three years. Britain will soon be borrowing as much each year as we
earn. The gap next year will be the biggest in the Western world. We are the
last country in the G-20 richest nations to still be in recession.

Stakes are terrifyingly high. Meanwhile, the really tough decisions - tax hikes
and even bigger spending cuts - will be left until after the elections next May.

The Chancellor is gambling with our jobs, our homes and the future prosperity of
the United Kingdom. The risk is that the roof could fall in before then.

And it is all bluff. He has no aces, no trumps - no chips. But is that enough to
reassure the big institutions we rely on to prop up our debt? Or too little too
late to stop them walking away and taking their much-needed money with them? Mr
Darling is gambling he won't go down as the Chancellor who put Labour's
electoral chances ahead of the nation's economic interest - or snuffed out a
fragile recovery by pruning too savagely now. There is just one last precious
heirloom the Chancellor can throw on the table - the reputation of Great Britain
plc. And having once enjoyed a lofty position as the world's fourth largest
economy, we have now fallen to seventh and are likely to drop out of the Top Ten
altogether in three years. Once-proud Britain now ranks alongside discredited,
near-bankrupt economies such as Ireland, Spain and Greece.

His task is to persuade international money markets our word is still our bond.
Swipe If they walk, they will wreck our triple-A credit rating and we will have
to pay much more interest on future borrowing, with devastating consequences for
the already creaking economy.

Tough medicine is already on its way. After a year at 15 per cent, VAT will
shoot back to 17.5 per cent in the New Year. Some believe it will rise even
further, perhaps to 20 per cent, whoever wins the election. Bank of England
governor Mervyn King, who has printed an extra £200billion of funny money, warns
we cannot carry on like this.

When he reveals his hand in Wednesday's Pre-Budget Report, he must do more than
show Britain is good for the £800BILLION it has already borrowed - the biggest
black hole since the Second World War.

The car scrappage scheme is about to dry up, putting the motor industry back on
the rack.

While Mr Darling takes on the high rollers, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is
trying to distract our attention with a popular swipe at bankers' bonuses,
including a possible windfall tax. Unless we carry out far more serious spending
cuts, including an attack on the public sector's gigantic £1.4TRILLION pension
liability, the rest of the world will lose faith and plunge Britain into a
full-scale Sterling crisis.

Top tax rates will jump from 40 per cent to 50 per cent - and the Tories have no
plans to reverse them.

That might take the punters' minds off all the bad news, but it will cut little
He must also convince creditors they can safely carry on lending to the UK at
the shocking rate of £180billion this year alone - up from £35billion last year
- and endless billions more in years to come. None of this is enough to address
the real problem - A TORY Government can't dump another Speaker so soon after
Michael Martin - despite the weirdness of John Bercow and his wife Sally, who
admits smoking pot at school. {To make matters harder, the Chancellor is playing
two poker games at once. Others fear turning off the tap too ruthlessly could
plunge us into a "double dip" recession, with high inflation and a generation of
permanently unemployed young people.

She revelled in drunken one-night stands while he, despite being elected as a
Conservative, is widely regarded as a Labour sympathiser. Voters in Buckingham
may have the solution. They could dump Bercow at the next election and vent
their feelings about Brussels at the same time by picking UKIP's Nigel Farage He
must soothe money lenders by cutting spending, As he takes his place at the
green baize table, "Lucky" Darling is not the only one entitled to look around
and ask: |while simultaneously trying to stem a mutiny among the in his place.
"Who dealt this rotten hand?" ALISTAIR DARLING, never a betting man, will sit
down this week and play poker with the world's biggest card sharks.

Stakes are terrifyingly high.

The Chancellor is gambling with our jobs, our homes and the future prosperity of
the United Kingdom.

And it is all bluff. He has no aces, no trumps - no chips.

There is just one last precious heirloom the Chancellor can throw on the table -
the reputation of Great Britain plc.

His task is to persuade international money markets our word is still our bond.

When he reveals his hand in Wednesday's Pre-Budget Report, he must do more than
show Britain is good for the £800BILLION it has already borrowed - the biggest
black hole since the Second World War.

He must also convince creditors they can safely carry on lending to the UK at
the shocking rate of £180billion this year alone - up from £35billion last year
- and endless billions more in years to come.

He must soothe money lenders by cutting spending, while simultaneously trying to
stem a mutiny among the { To make matters harder, the Chancellor is playing two
poker games at once.

victims of those cuts - six million Government workers, many of them Labour
voters.

His best card is a freeze on public sector pay, saving almost £40billion over
the next three years.

But is that enough to reassure the big institutions we rely on to prop up our
debt? Or too little too late to stop them walking away and taking their
much-needed money with them?

Swipe

If they walk, they will wreck our triple-A credit rating and we will have to pay
much more interest on future borrowing, with devastating consequences for the
already creaking economy.

While Mr Darling takes on the high rollers, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is
trying to distract our attention with a popular swipe at bankers' bonuses,
including a possible windfall tax.

That might take the punters' minds off all the bad news, but it will cut little
ice with giant institutions who live by the bonus culture.

Meanwhile, the really tough decisions - tax hikes and even bigger spending cuts
- will be left until after the elections next May.

The risk is that the roof could fall in before then.

Mr Darling is gambling he won't go down as the Chancellor who put Labour's
electoral chances ahead of the nation's economic interest - or snuffed out a
fragile recovery by pruning too savagely now.

Tough medicine is already on its way. After a year at 15 per cent, VAT will
shoot back to 17.5 per cent in the New Year. Some believe it will rise even
further, perhaps to 20 per cent, whoever wins the election.

The car scrappage scheme is about to dry up, putting the motor industry back on
the rack.

Top tax rates will jump from 40 per cent to 50 per cent - and the Tories have no
plans to reverse them.

None of this is enough to address the real problem - Britain will soon be
borrowing as much each year as we earn. The gap next year will be the biggest in
the Western world. We are the last country in the G-20 richest nations to still
be in recession.

And having once enjoyed a lofty position as the world's fourth largest economy,
we have now fallen to seventh and are likely to drop out of the Top Ten
altogether in three years. Once-proud Britain now ranks alongside discredited,
near-bankrupt economies such as Ireland, Spain and Greece.

Bank of England governor Mervyn King, who has printed an extra £200billion of
funny money, warns we cannot carry on like this.

Unless we carry out far more serious spending cuts, including an attack on the
public sector's gigantic £1.4TRILLION pension liability, the rest of the world
will lose faith and plunge Britain into a full-scale Sterling crisis.

Others fear turning off the tap too ruthlessly could plunge us into a "double
dip" recession, with high inflation and a generation of permanently unemployed
young people.

As he takes his place at the green baize table, "Lucky" Darling is not the only
one entitled to look around and ask: "Who dealt this rotten hand?"

'A TORY Government can't dump another Speaker so soon after Michael Martin -
despite the weirdness of John Bercow and his wife Sally, who admits smoking pot
at school.

She revelled in drunken one-night stands while he, despite being elected as a
Conservative, is widely regarded as a Labour sympathiser. Voters in Buckingham
may have the solution. They could dump Bercow at the next election and vent
their feelings about Brussels at the same time by picking UKIP's Nigel Farage in
his place.'

address the real problem - plunge recession, and permanently young A TORY
Government can't dump another Speaker so soon after Michael Martin - despite the
weirdness of John Bercow and his wife Sally, who admits smoking pot at school. {
She revelled in drunken one-night stands while he, despite being elected as a
Conservative, is widely regarded as a Labour sympathiser. Voters in Buckingham
may have the solution. They could dump Bercow at the next election and vent
their feelings about Brussels at the same time by picking UKIP's Nigel Farage in
his place. money spending, trying the | "

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 6, 2009 Sunday

THE ZAPPER

BYLINE: BY MILES GOSLETT

LENGTH: 579 words


Bad news for James Corden and Mathew Horne, co-stars of Gavin & Stacey. Their
BBC3 comedy sketch show has been axed after only one series. Thousands have
already been spent on pre-production fees for the second series but, according
to a programme source, this loot may as well have been set on fire. Critics were
never wild about the Horne & Corden stock material, which included skits about
fat people and gay war reporters. One rated it 'excruciating - as funny and as
puerile as a sixth-form revue'. That's why it was on BBC3.

Channel 4 newsreader Krishnan Guru-Murthy, pictured, keeps some pretty
interesting company in cyberspace these days. Among those he's been using
Twitter to correspond with are Labour MPs Harriet Harman, David Miliband and
James Purnell. That's in between making digs at Tory candidate Zac Goldsmith and
UK Independence Party leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch. In the interests of
political balance shouldn't 'Krish', as he is to friends, be more careful about
this sort of thing?

Last week I mentioned that comedienne Miranda Hart used the word s*** during her
BBC2 sitcom and got away with it. For those who think this is no big deal, it
is. The show is broadcast before the 9pm watershed, suggesting the BBC is no
longer paranoid about bad language. In this week's episode of her sitcom, Hart
also made a crack about Prince Philip being 'racist' - only days after making
rude comments on the BBC1 panel game Have I Got News For You about the Queen.
Can we assume that Hart, who resembles both MP Margaret Beckett and the late
Bernard Bresslaw, is not a monarchist?

There was plenty of talk about another four-letter word - Eton - during The
Daily Politics on BBC2 on Wednesday. Host Andrew Neil surmised that Gordon Brown
is about to wage a class war on the Tories. Reminding voters that David Cameron
went to the public school, Neil pointed out that this could be a key part of
Brown's strategy. One man in the studio who didn't take part in this discussion
was BBC deputy political editor James Landale. He attended Eton at the same time
as Cameron. Could this explain his silence?

Peter Mandelson, who's always enjoyed appearing on television, can strike a line
through any plans he had to appear on Channel 4 quiz Countdown. On Monday, host
Jeff Stelling mentioned that he, like Mandelson, has just been made a freeman of
the city of Hartlepool and said he'd be attending 'a special ceremony along with
Lord Mandelson' to mark the fact. Cue sustained boos from the normally docile
Countdown audience. 'That went down well, didn't it?' said Stelling. 'The
everpopular Lord Mandelson.'

Sounds like Honeysuckle Weeks, pictured below, has had enough of appearing in
ITV1's resurrected wartime drama Foyle's War. The actress, who's played the role
of Samantha Stewart since 2002, tells me the next three episodes are the last
she'll make.

When asked how she felt about reaching the end of filming she says: 'It felt
rather bathetic, if you know what I mean. That's bathetic, spelt with a "b", as
in bathos.' Heard you the first time, clever clogs.

Recently I pointed out the BBC's bizarre decision to spend thousands of pounds
on 'trails' to inform viewers it broadcasts news programmes. Last Saturday,
after midnight, it ran one such trail - about children's programme Newsround.
Proof, if it were needed, that this campaign has less to do with news and more
to do with advertising budgets which, if not spent in time, are cut.

thezapper@mailonsunday.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                December 6, 2009

Labour's City supporters need to be united behind industry

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 980 words


It is a commonplace that many people found Gordon Brown more impressive when he
was in opposition, and as chancellor (mark one) than he was as chancellor (mark
two) and than he has been so far as prime minister. As is also well known, in
the second phase of his chancellorship he lost his reputation for prudence by
not controlling the budgetary finances during the boom, thereby making a
laughing stock of his once admired fiscal rules.

If it is true that the prime minister recovered his old Parliamentary form last
week (I did not see it and am a bit of a doubting Thomas, but the reports were
good), then perhaps this reflects the fashionable view that this is a tired
government the public cannot wait to throw out. In which case Brown in effect
sees himself as already being in opposition and his fighting spirit has
returned.

Or perhaps not. Leading pollster Sir Robert Worcester is of the view that an
interesting trend has developed: the Conservatives cannot be certain of victory
if their share of the vote is less than 40%, and in four of the last six polls
(at the time I spoke to him) the Conservatives were below that, thanks to
defections to Ukip. There is also the consideration that dissident Labour
supporters tempted to defect to the Liberal Democrats may be put off by Nick
Clegg's apparent willingness to support the Conservatives if they emerge as the
largest single party.

Personally, I think the mood of the country is anti-Labour but not very
pro-Conservative. At least, sadly, it is anti a Labour government led by Brown,
notwithstanding the international recognition of the prime minister's role in
saving the banking, and hence the capitalist, system. The implication could be
that people want a "hung parliament", possibly as a way of saying "a plague on
both your houses".

Now, in the hallowed tradition of trying to put oneself in the other person's
shoes, I have been trying to understand why New Labour did what they did. They
had been out of office for 18 years, and were deeply wounded by their failure in
1992. By the time they came in, the Berlin wall had come down, the Soviet union
had collapsed and globalisation and "finance capitalism" were all the rage, not
least with Bill Clinton and Alan Greenspan, towards each of whom Tony Blair and
Brown behaved like adoring bobbysoxers.

New Labour were so nervous about opposition from the City of London that they
embraced it with open arms; indeed, bankers could do no wrong. Perhaps the nadir
of New Labour's inferiority complex occurred when Brown felt it necessary to
justify higher spending on the health service by reference to a report the
government had commissioned from a leading banker. I seem to recall christening
the relevant budget "the Wanless budget" after the genial author of the report,
Sir Derek Wanless, formerly of NatWest.

Blair loved the City but did not understand it, although it loved him. Brown was
as suspicious of the City as it was of him, though he was given credit for
handing over decisions about changes in interest rates to the Bank of England.
But he placed too much faith in finance capitalism, with results that are all
too apparent, not least to Nicolas Sarkozy.

New Labour tolerated an overvalued £ for far too long, with the result that
manufacturing industry, without which no modern economy can survive, continued
to decline. What is more, the decline was not only relative, but absolute;
manufacturing output has recently been running below the levels it was when New
Labour came to power, and not entirely because of the recession.

It is amazing, truly amazing, that it has taken this government so long to wake
up to the importance of manufacturing - and this in a country which was once the
workshop of the world. When I last saw Lord Mandelson I congratulated him on the
work he was putting into the revival of British manufacturing and he told me he
was "passionate" about it.

It was therefore somewhat disappointing to learn that this formidable politician
was prepared to give it all up for another job in Brussels (or perhaps the
Foreign Office) when, with his talents, he could make a real difference on the
home front. But, given the outcome of No 10's bizarre behaviour over recent
appointments in Brussels, perhaps Mandelson will realise one's hopes after all.

As I have pointed out before, this country does not deserve its reputation for
pragmatism. At least our rulers - of both major parties - do not. Over the years
they have lurched from one dogma to another, whereas the hated French have, on
the whole, run a balanced economy, with a confident public sector, but more
support for entrepreneurs than their "statist" image might indicate. It is not
for nothing that entrepreneur is a French word and that half our public
utilities seem to depend on the French. (By the way, whether it is apocryphal or
not, I love the story that George W Bush once complained that the French did not
have a word for "entrepreneur".)

At all events, New Labour have discovered rather late in the day that the
industrial base is important, indeed vital, and that our future does not lie
entirely in financial services - although we must not go from one extreme to the
other: hence the official annoyance over Sarkozy's gloating about the supposed
demise of Anglo-Saxon capitalism and his implied threats to the future of the
City.

The City will survive, but the usual suspects should certainly feel chastened.
Without taxpayer support they would have sunk and dragged the rest of us down
with them.

But back to manufacturing: it is going to take time for the low £ to benefit
manufacturing and the trade balance, but in the end it should. Meanwhile, I
cannot help noticing that London stations are jammed packed with foreign
visitors pulling those suitcases on wheels behind them. Could it possibly be
that the suitcases are filled with goods that seem cheap to them?


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                December 6, 2009
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Enemies eye chance to dethrone Speaker

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words


JOHN BERCOW faces attempts to oust him as the Commons Speaker immediately after
the general election amid crossparty anger about his conduct. Tory and Labour
backbenchers are devising an extraordinary plan: to object to his automatic
reappointment if there is a change of government.

MPs from both parties accuse Bercow of bringing shame on the office of Speaker
by allowing his wife, an aspiring Labour councillor, to give a highly party
political interview attacking David Cameron.

Bercow has also alienated MPs on all sides with his handling of the expenses
row, triggering accusations of selfinterest and inconsistency over his failure
to support penalties for "flipping" properties.

He legally avoided paying thousands of pounds in capital gains tax on the sale
of two homes by declaring them as his main residence to the taxman despite
nominating them as his second homes for the purposes of his expenses.

In a sign of the scale of discontent, many MPs are openly questioning his
judgment and preparing to move against him at the first opportunity.

Nadine Dorries, the Tory MP who has been one of Bercow's most vocal critics,
said: "When a new parliament sits, we MPs, at a strategic moment, have the
opportunity to shout 'no' when the motion to reinstate the Speaker is announced.
I reckon it's going to be a fairly loud chorus."

Denis MacShane, the Labour former Foreign Office minister, lambasted Bercow for
failing to support MPs against inaccurate demands for expenses repayments after
a review by Sir Thomas Legg.

"I voted for John and he has freshened up debates," said MacShane. "But the
Speaker is there to defend backbench MPs, not act as the echo of retired
mandarins or party leaders outbidding each other in sanctimonious declarations
on MPs' pay."

Bercow, the MP for Buckingham, has one of the safest seats in the country with a
majority of more than 18,000. Under parliamentary conventions, he will stand for
re-election as Speaker, rather than as a Tory candidate, and only independents
will be allowed to stand against him.

As he has been in office less than a year, his reappointment to the post after
the general election - expected next spring - would normally be a formality.
However, he is deeply unpopular among Tory MPs, who regard him as too left-wing
to be a Conservative. They will attempt to oust him if they win a majority at
the election.

In a personal attack, Bercow's wife Sally last week labelled Cameron a "merchant
of spin", accusing him of favouring the wealthy over the "mainstream majority".
Backbenchers saw the interview as a serious breach of the convention that the
Speaker remains politically impartial.

In her interview, Bercow's wife also described a battle with drink and a
fondness for one-night stands when she was in her twenties with men she picked
up in bars. "I liked the excitement of not knowing how a night was going to
end," she said.

The Tory MP Mark Pritchard warned that the Speaker, dubbed "Red John" by his
critics, was on probation.

"John is a very able politician and he will know he is living in a de facto
trial period as Speaker," he said. "A large part of the future is down to his
own actions between now and the next election."

Bercow's conduct has also raised eyebrows in his constituency, where he faces a
challenge from Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP.

However, supporters of the Speaker point out that parliamentary rules are
weighted in favour of retaining the incumbent after the election.

Boozy, sexed-up Sally, the sinner we all need, India Knight, page 22

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bercow plants trees at Stowe school in his constituency. He has
alienated some MPs
PAUL HOWARD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                December 6, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Minister's husband wooed by KGB;
Peter Kellner, the pollster married to the EU foreign representative, tells Jon
Ungoed-Thomas of a Soviet bid to court him

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed-Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 693 words


THE husband of Europe's new foreign minister has disclosed that he was targeted
by the KGB as a source in the 1980s.

Peter Kellner, the pollster and political commentator who is married to Baroness
Ashton, spoke about the encounter as his wife faces scrutiny over her previous
role at the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND). Kellner said intelligence
documents from the 1960s showed that the British police as well as the KGB had
incorrectly fingered him as a communist sympathiser.

Kellner said he was cultivated as a contact by Yuri Kudimov more than two
decades ago. The Russian was subsequently expelled from Britain for alleged
spying.

"He approached me at the Labour party conference in 1984," said Kellner, a
Labour supporter, who was then working at the New Statesman, the political
magazine. "I was known to be quite close to [Neil] Kinnock and expect he was
after some insight into Labour's thinking. He never asked me for any documents
or anything and I wouldn't have given him anything if he had."

Kellner said the two men dined in a Blackpool steak house and met again on at
least two other occasions. He declined more regular contact. "I actually found
him quite tedious," Kellner said.

Kudimov, who worked in London for a Soviet newspaper, denied the accusations of
espionage, although he was expelled from Britain for alleged spying in September
1985, along with 24 Soviet officials. Kellner revealed the approach by Kudimov
in a newspaper column shortly after the expulsion was announced.

Since their meetings in the 1980s, the careers of both men have flourished.
Kellner is president of YouGov, the influential pollster, and Kudimov is
chairman of Russia's National Reserve Bank. The bank is owned by Alexander
Lebedev, who is a good friend of Kudimov and is now the proprietor of the
Evening Standard, the London newspaper. Lebedev worked in London for the KGB.

Kellner spoke of his cold war meetings as Ashton, the EU high representative for
foreign affairs, faces questions over whether the Communist party had provided
any funds for the CND while she was treasurer.

Ashton joined the campaign as an organiser and was CND's national treasurer in
the early 1980s. She is reported to have represented the organisation at
Communist party meetings, including one in Oldham in 1977, at a time when the
party was under surveillance by British intelligence.

Even while she was treasurer the CND faced questions over whether it benefited
from communist funds. Ashton said at the time that such suggestions were
"smears" and she introduced greater financial scrutiny with audited accounts.
David Campbell Bannerman, a UK Independence party MEP, said last week that 40%
of CND's funds from a 1980s audit could not be linked to any donor. UKIP wants a
European commission investigation.

Hynek Fajnon, an MEP for the ODS, the centre-right party in the Czech Republic,
said last week: "There is no doubt the Kremlin supported CND activities.

If Ashton as treasurer had played any role in that, it would be a great
scandal."

CND says a large proportion of its funds came from street collections and so it
is not possible to identify the donors. Kate Hudson, its chairwoman, has said
there is "not a shred of evidence" that money was ever received from Moscow.

Kellner, who married Ashton in 1988, said he was identified as a communist
sympathiser in the police surveillance operation of an anti-apartheid meeting in
1969. "Special Branch tagged me as a fellow traveller [communist sympathiser],"
he said. "Anyone who knows me would know it's completely laughable."

He said the police surveillance emerged in a freedom of information request.
"There was a little cross against my name," he said. "It said 'communist or
pro-communist'. It was in a six-page account of an anti-apartheid meeting on
October 26, 1969."

At that time Kellner was working for The Sunday Times as a business news
journalist. He said it was "pathetic and ludicrous" that his wife's role in CND
was being used by her political opponents. He said neither he nor his wife had
ever tried to conceal their past.

"We are both completely open and I wear my past record as a badge of pride," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton, circled top right, was the CND's national treasurer in
the 1980s when her busband Peter Kellner, right, was approached by the alleged
spy Yuri Kudimov, left
HOMER SYKES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 6, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MPs plan secret ballot to oust scandal"hit Bercow

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 213  words


A SECRET ballot to force out scandal-hit Speaker John Bercow after the General
Election is "almost certain", a leading Tory revealed last night.

Douglas Carswell, who spearheaded the campaign to oust former Speaker Michael
Martin, said changes to the Parliamentary rule book made it much easier for MPs
to depose someone they did not like.

Under the new standing orders, if there is discontent among MPs about the
Speaker in new Parliament there has to be a secret ballot.

"You only need one person to put themselves forward as a stalking horse and that
will start the process, " said Mr Carswell. He predicted such a ballot would be
held if Mr Bercow survived an election challenge in his Buckingham constituency
from former Ukip leader Nigel Farage Mr Farage's action was prompted by
questions about Mr Bercow's expenses.

Last week revelations about the booze-fuelled, sex-obsessed past of Mr Bercow
and his wife Sally have reduced the office of Speaker to a laughing stock in the
eyes of many MPs. There are now doubts whether Mr Bercow has the required
dignity for the job.

Before becoming Speaker last June, Mr Bercow was a Tory MP. He was disliked by
many in his party for his sympathies towards Labour.

Then last month Mrs Bercow announced that she wanted to become a Labour MP.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER THREAT: John Bercow REVELATIONS: Sally Bercow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 3957 words


SQUEAKER BERCOW'S TROUBLE AND STRIFE

WE BEGIN with a news flash. Even if John Bercow MP retains his Buckingham seat,
he will now face a vote on his Commons Speakership at the start of the next
parliament.

Speakers are by custom confirmed without demur after a general election, but
such are the all-party doubts about Mr Bercow -- accentuated this week by his
wife's I-was-a- drunken-trollop admissions -- that tradition will be ignored.

Tory MP Nadine Dorries has told friends that if no one else does so, she will
definitely shout 'no!' in the Chamber when the Speaker motion is put to the
House. That would force a division and quite possibly a fatal vote.

Mrs Bercow's confessions of heavy drinking and horizontal PT, made to the
Evening Standard, are not the problem. She looks like a lap- dancer and it is
now plain she has behaved much like one. Oh well. At least one can now report
that in her Young Conservative days she was known as 'Sally the Alley'.

What caused mayhem this week was her political attack on David Cameron and
grammar schools. She speculated about where the Camerons would in future educate
their children (at present in state schools).

Top politicians and their spouses have seldom intruded on such matters,
particularly in so gossipy a way. In the Commons tea room on Thursday, one MP
was so engrossed while reading the interview that he managed to stab his Kit-Kat
into his cheek, having missed his mouth.

Buckingham is perhaps the greatest redoubt of grammar schools in England. UKIP's
Nigel Farage, who is standing against Mr Bercow in the constituency, will seize
hungrily on Sally the Alley's antigrammar remarks.

Modern wives may be independent women, but will voters in Buckingham see it like
that?

I hear rumours that Labour and the LibDems may quietly support Mr Farage's
campaign, because having him in the Commons would make Mr Cameron's life far
more difficult on Europe.

Meanwhile, it is my grievous duty to disclose that the Squeaker's spin doctor,
Tim Hames, whom we pay some 685,000 to protect the Speakership, did not sit in
on the Standard's interview with Mrs B. That would have been normal practice for
most political minders. Is Hames worth his money?

THE Speaker, as top Commoner in the kingdom, is invited to all the state
banquets, wife included. It might be an idea to seat Prince Andrew well away
from Mrs Bercow next time there is a dinner at Buck House.

Were there to be a coronation while Mr Bercow was Speaker, by the way, Mrs
Bercow would be prominent in proceedings, riding in the Speaker's horse-drawn,
gilded state coach. Do we want wolf whistles on Coronation Day?

OLD colonial hands usually had a decent smattering of the languages spoken in
the territories where they served.

It used to be common to encounter Raj matrons (my grandmother was one) who spoke
Hindi like Calcutta rickshaw drivers, and Sarawak veterans who could jabber away
in Malay.

Is this still the case? The MoD will soon have 10,000 people in Afghanistan, but
hardly any of them speaks the lingo. Whitehall says that last year a mere 76
personnel from Land Forces, including Royal Marines, took a course in Pashto.
The current year's figure is just 70. We might find it easier to 'interact' with
Afghans if we could converse with them in their tongue.

STATISTIC of the week comes from Lord Bates (Con): 'We have now overtaken India
as the country with the longest tax code in the world. In 1997, Tolley's Yellow
Tax Handbook ran to 5,000 pages, which was the result of nearly two centuries of
tax legislation. In 2009 the handbook ran to 11,500 pages.'

DAME PEGGY OF THE QUEEN VIC

ARISE, Dame Barbara? The workings of Whitehall's honours committees are secret,
but a little mouse tells me of a proposal to give actress Barbara Windsor
(pictured) a damehood.

She is already an MBE, so has passed muster as far as officialdom is concerned.

Now she is stepping down from EastEnders, the time could be right for promotion.

I am told the award has been proposed by Roger Lewis, arts biographer and author
of a disgracefully funny book called Seasonal Suicide Notes which torpedoes
various stuffed shirts of the arts world.

Mr Lewis could not be reached yesterday, but if he's that way inclined, what
about knighthoods for fellow stars Ronnie Corbett and Ian 'Private Pike'
Lavender?

EVANS AND TEL ON HEAVEN AND HELL

SIR Terry Wogan's successor at BBC Radio 2, Chris Evans, has outed himself as an
atheist. During an interview with the peerless Steve Wright, Mr Evans said he
did not believe in any afterlife. This is tricky. Sir Terry's morning show,
which Mr Evans inherits presently, has a religious slot called 'Pause for
Thought'. Gingernut Evans (right) may face accusations of falseness if he gushes
over 'Pause for Thought' contributors. These include Rabbi Lady Neuberger, Fr
Brian D'Arcy and Canon Roger Royle. The Archbishop of Canterbury has even done
it in the past. Radio 2 promises that the show's religious spot will continue.
Perhaps Mr Evans will eventually be converted by all those pulpiteers.

A PAST TO BE PROUD OF?

SIR Christopher Kelly, the ex-Whitehall mandarin who recently ran an inquiry on
MPs' allowances, has been summoned to a dicey encounter in January. He has been
called to give evidence to the Commons Public Administration Committee, which
examines official life. What a pity it would be for Sir Christopher if he is
asked, say, about his own (perfectly proper) pension arrangements from his long
time as a civil servant. Or about the way he ran the show at the not always
entirely estimable Department of Health. Could happen, y'know.

PETER OBORNE

ON POLITICS AND POWER

A RUDDERLESS ECONOMYAND A ONCE GREAT TREASURY THAT'S NOWNOT FIT FOR PURPOSE

FOR MORE than a century the British Treasury has been by far the most feared,
powerful and respected of all government departments. It has wielded
near-dictatorial powers, and its superbly trained officials have been famed for
their intellectual ferocity and rigour.

The tradition of Treasury excellence has been of inestimable value to Britain,
meaning that we have been unusually well equipped to cope with financial
disasters such as the secondary banking collapse of the mid-1970s when dozens of
small banks faced bankruptcy, or with Black Wednesday in 1992 when all looked
lost as sterling was driven out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism.

Today, however, Britain faces economic and financial crisis on a scale that far
outweighs even these catastrophes of the 1970s and 1990s. This time the Treasury
is utterly unable to cope. Indeed, it is facing the greatest crisis of
confidence in its history.

This week two glaring examples of Treasury ineptitude have come to the surface
courtesy of a National Audit Office report into last year's banking crisis. The
first of these is the revelation that during the crisis the Treasury paid no
less than 6150million for advice from large city firms such as Goldman Sachs.

For instance, the Treasury spent more than 680 million on consultancy fees
relating to the bailouts of HBOS and the Royal Bank of Scotland.

In all previous financial crises it would have been unthinkable for the Treasury
to contract out this kind of highly sensitive work to the private sector. Apart
from the conflicts of interest involved, it would have been regarded as
insulting to the highlytrained Treasury officials whose job it is to sort out
financial problems.

But such is the degradation of Treasury competence and morale under Gordon
Brown, Alistair Darling and the department's supine Permanent Secretary Nick
Macpherson that it is now considered normal to sub-contract out this kind of
work, which ought to be meat and drink to Treasury mandarins.

THE National Audit Office report contains a second, and equally devastating,
example of Treasury ineptitude. It reveals that just a week before the collapse
of the Royal Bank of Scotland in October last year 'internal papers prepared by
the Treasury suggested that RBS's capital position was reasonably strong'.

In other words, even as late as October 2008, and therefore after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers, Treasury officials were clueless about what was going on in
financial markets. This is quite simply terrifying -- and it shows that
something has gone fundamentally wrong at the heart of British government.

But Treasury naivety and incompetence does not stop there. For the fact is that
the department seems to have lost any notion of what is happening to the real
economy.

When he stands up to announce his Pre-Budget Report in the Commons next week,
Chancellor Alistair Darling should be forced to own up to the Treasury's
consistent failure to grip the nature and scale of the economic recession.

This failure is on such a scale that it amounts to negligence -- for what it
shows is that Mr Darling has been in no position to make the hugely important
economic judgments that the country desperately needs at a time of crisis.

To understand the depth and seriousness of the problem, it is necessary to go
back 18 months to the Budget of March 2008. This was in retrospect a dangerously
complacent event.

Neither Darling nor his Treasury officials showed even the remotest awareness
that the UK was starting to plunge into the gravest economic recession since
World War II. The hapless Darling blithely -- and inexcusably -- predicted
comfortable growth rates of 2 per cent or more for years ahead.

Incredibly Darling had still not woken up six months later, when he delivered
last year's Pre-Budget statement in December 2008. This statement, made in the
wake of the global financial collapse, can only be described as an act of the
purest fantasy. Everything about it was wrong.

He predicted that economic recovery would begin this summer and that the overall
downturn in growth for the year would therefore be limited be 'between minus 3/4
and minus 11/4 per cent'. As we all know, the recession has in fact lasted well
beyond the summer, and the IMF is forecasting the British economy to contract by
a mammoth 4.4 per cent this year. The OECD, which predicts a contraction of 4.7
per cent, is even more gloomy.

Darling was just as far out of his depth when he discussed future borrowing. For
instance, in last year's Pre-Budget Report he predicted a shortfall of just 6118
billion for the current financial year -- the true figure is likely to clock in
at nearer 6200billion.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown has been even more misleading. A year ago he told us
ebulliently that 'the Chancellor is leading the rest of the world in taking us
out of the recession.' Today we are the only G20 nation that remains in
recession. To sum up, the Treasury has consistently proven that it hasn't the
faintest idea of what is going on, either when it comes to the health of the
financial system or the wider British economy.

So it is incapable of giving wise or even sensible policy advice, because the
premises which would govern such advice have been shown to be fantastical and
wholly incorrect.

The sorry truth is that, at a time when we are facing the most desperate
economic crisis in living memory, the Treasury has been unable either to
understand what is going on or to come up with an adequate response.

I believe there are two primary reasons for this national disaster. The first is
the legacy of Gordon Brown's ten-year period at the Treasury, which ended in
July 2007. Brown was certainly an intellectually dominant Chancellor and he made
some sensible decisions, of which the granting of independence to the Bank of
England was the most astute.

BUT his modus operandi has proved to be a disaster. He insisted on surrounding
himself with a small, closed group of trusted cronies, such as his economic
adviser (and now Children's Secretary) Ed Balls and that appalling Brownite
favourite, the overbearing and shouty Baroness Vadera.

Meanwhile, Treasury officials who did their constitutional duty by giving
impartial advice or telling the truth about Britain's economic position were
frozen out. In some cases their careers were ruined.

Over a period of years Brown's suppression of original thought, and
encouragement of a tiny clique, destroyed the Treasury esprit de corps. By the
time that Alistair Darling took over the Treasury just over two years ago,
morale was at rock bottom and this once great national institution had been
hollowed out to become a shadow of its former self.

Matters have been made worse by Alistair Darling's sheer cowardice as
Chancellor. Senior Treasury officials have told me that he has succumbed to
pressure from Gordon Brown in 10 Downing Street to project a more optimistic
outlook than is justified by the facts.

In recent months, however, they say that Darling has become more assertive and
that there have been some bruising rows. This is all to the good.

Nevertheless, a grave problem persists. The Treasury is no longer 'fit for
purpose', to return to the damning phrase once used by the Cabinet Minister John
Reid about the Home Office.

This would be a matter of grave concern at any time, let alone a moment of grave
economic crisis. The most urgent priority facing George Osborne, if he takes
over as Chancellor after next year's General Election, is to rebuild the British
Treasury as a formidable force in British government and undo the immense damage
inflicted on this once great institution by New Labour.

CAMERON PUTS HIS HANDS UP

CRITICS have mocked David Cameron for getting his facts wrong when mounting his
attack on Islamic influences in British schools at Prime Minister's Questions
this week.

But how refreshing that, having made his mistake, Cameron instantly corrected
himself.

I have a very long list of misleading statements made by Gordon Brown and Tony
Blair (an even worse offender) which were made on the floor of the Commons and
have since been left uncorrected and on the official record. Indeed, only this
week Gordon Brown falsely stated, in an attack on the Tories, that Spain was a
member of the G20 group of nations, and yet we have no correction from him.
Cameron's apology is a welcome sign that, as Prime Minister, he may bring back
some desperately needed integrity to government.

HARRIET'S GRUESOME HYPOCRISY

ONE of the infallible signs of a collapsing government is the disappearance of
Cabinet responsibility as ministers begin to fend for themselves. A gruesome
example of this occurred thisweek with Harriet Harman's attack on 'reckless' and
'irresponsible' banks such as the Royal Bank of Scotland which have been bailed
out by the State and yet still expect to 'award themselves massive bonuses'.

Many people, and not just those on the Left, will agree with Harriet Harman's
verdict.

But the fact remains that RBS is owned by the taxpayer, and its decision to pay
these grotesque bonuses is, therefore, sanctioned by Alistair Darling and is
official Labour policy. Harriet Harman is being deeply hypocritical -- as well
as disloyal -- by attacking a policy which, as a Cabinet minister, she formally
supports.

peter.oborne@dailymail.co.uk

RICHARD TODD, WHO DIED YESTERDAY, CAPTURED THE COURAGE OF A GENERATION

BY PETER EVANS - TO BE ADVISED -

DAM BUSTERS STAR WHO NEVER GOT OVER THE SUICIDE OF HIS TWO SONS

ON SCREEN, Richard Todd played stoical, reallife heroes -- Wing Commander Guy
Gibson in The Dam Busters, Major John Howard in The Longest Day, Commander John
Kerans in the Yangtse Incident.

In real life, however, he was a selfeffacing hero who could be moved to tears by
personal tragedies, of which he experienced many, including the tragic suicide
of two of his sons. Casting a shadow over his later years, the deaths of these
two beloved children would haunt him until his death yesterday, aged 90.

'I wish I had half the courage of some of those chaps I've played on the
screen,' he told me during the making of the jungle war film, The Long And The
Short And The Tall, in which he starred with Laurence Harvey and Richard Harris.

He was explaining why he had never complained when his co- stars, both strapping
six-footers, made fun of his diminutive stature. Once, during the lunch break,
they scooped out a hole where Todd was to stand opposite them in the next scene,
making him appear even smaller than his 5ft 8in.

When I reminded him that he had been one of the first paratroopers to drop into
Nazi-occupied France on D-Day -- his assignment as a captain in the Parachute
Regiment was to prevent a German counter-attack by seizing and holding the
Pegasus Bridge over the River Orne -- he said: 'That was wartime. You behave
quite differently in war. You don't have much time to dwell on what you're doing
when the bullets are zipping around.

'I put all that stuff behind me once the war ended. Anyway, how can you take
seriously a bunch of actors playing silly buggers? If the prank amused them, it
was fine with me. Elstree studios isn't exactly war-torn France, is it?'

Always a gentleman, he never mentioned that neither of his tormentors had ever
fought in a real war.

Born Richard Andrew Palethorpe-Todd in Dublin in 1919 into an aristocratic,
Anglo-Irish family, he was the son of an army doctor. Todd studied acting at the
Italia Conti drama school, and was a founder-member of the Dundee Repertory
Theatre.

He first appeared professionally as an actor at the Open Air Theatre, Regent's
Park, in a production of Twelfth Night in 1936.

Ever the hero, he volunteered for the army the day after the outbreak of World
War II in 1939.

He was commissioned in 1941 and distinguished himself during D-Day as part of
Operation Tonga, Britain's airborne assault of France.

TODD was one of the first British officers to land in Normandy and his unit
joined glider forces that had landed earlier to take the Pegasus Bridge.

It was on this bridge that he met Major John Howard, who led the glider assault
-- a character he would later play in the classic 1962 war film, The Longest
Day.

On leaving the army in 1945, a veteran of 25, he returned to Dundee to resume
immediately his stage career. 'I have no idea why but acting was in my blood.
God knows how I managed it, but none of it was spilled in the war,' he said --
although the loss of so many of his friends, he admitted, was sometimes
difficult to bear.

Much later in life would come more terrible losses, this time far closer to
home.

Todd was 78 when he learned that Seamus, his 20-year-old son by his second
marriage to Virginia Mailer, had committed suicide at the family home by
shooting himself in the head.

A shotgun from the family gun cupboard was beside his bed. The actor wept in
shock and disbelief as he struggled to comprehend the tragedy, but it was
typical of him to respond with love, not anger.

'When I went to see his body I gave him a kiss and told him he'd been a silly
boy,' he said. 'It's such an appalling waste. None of us can understand why he
did it. He was so popular and loved.'

An inquest found that Seamus's suicide could have been prompted by depression
caused by an acne drug he was taking.

But Todd, devastated, could not help but blame himself, fearing that a row
between father and son had helped to push his beloved boy over the edge.

'I will never forgive myself. I was too hard on him. I gave Seamus an awful
rollicking for crashing a little car I'd bought him. But I was too gruff, too
military.

'He left a note saying he'd never be able to cope. In reality, he was a dazzling
boy. He appeared to have the world at his feet.'

Later, he wrote that his son had been driven to suicide by the 'predicament that
so many young people find themselves in nowadays, forced to live miserably,
unhealthily, and in debt in order to achieve a university degree that is no
longer even a fairly sure guarantee of employment at any level'.

The death of a child by their own hand is a dreadful thing for any parent to
live with. But eight years after losing his Seamus, Todd had to cope with a
second tragedy when Peter, his eldest son by his first marriage to actress
Catherine Grant-Bogle, also shot himself aged 53, following the break-up of his
marriage.

This time, Todd's response was less robust. 'After that, you saw Richard visibly
wither,' a mutual friend told me. 'I suppose even heroes have their Achilles'
heel.'

But there were happier times. Returning from military duty after the war, Todd
was signed up by the film studio Associated-British, and in 1949 he was cast as
a dour young Scot corporal in The Hasty Heart.

The film won him a nomination for an Academy Award as best actor. Overnight, he
had become a star.

But he is best remembered for his role as Wing Commander Guy Gibson in the 1953
blockbuster, The Dam Busters, a heroic role that perfectly reflected his own
wartime pluck and courage.

'It was a most wonderful start,' he once explained to me. 'I wasn't the
highest-earning matinee idol of the period. But it was much better than being
shot at, for God's sake. I always reminded myself of that whenever I was in
danger of feeling hard done by.'

He was handsome, had plenty of sex appeal -- and was even Ian Fleming's first
choice to play James Bond (although producer Harry Saltzman considered him too
short and vetoed him). But Todd was never an outstanding actor.

'I let myself become a willing workhorse. The roles were good, bad and
indifferent, but I always gave a part my best shot and tried to enjoy it,' he
said. He had his fair share of turkeys. Alfred Hitchcock cast him as the villain
opposite Jane Wyman in Stage Fright, but the film was a boxoffice disappointment
because, as Hitchcock later admitted, 'the villain was a flop'.

He also played Raleigh to the ageing Bette Davis's Elizabeth I in The Virgin
Queen. But that was a flop, too. 'Maybe if I'd played the queen,' he later told
me ruefully.

But he was always game -- and Todd revealed an engagingly boyish sense of
enthusiasm when Disney cast him as Robin in The Story Of Robin Hood And His
Merrie Men. Perhaps predictably, the film was not a patch on Errol Flynn's 1938
version.

His first wife was Catherine Grant-Bogle, who he met when they appeared together
at the Dundee rep. They were divorced in 1970, and shortly afterwards Todd
married Virginia, who he divorced in 1992.

Although he wasn't a hellraiser in the mode of Peter Finch and Robert Mitchum,
Todd 'had an eye for the ladies. My God, he didn't miss many,' according to
Robert Lennard, ABPC's casting director. 'He took some hairraising risks
sometimes.'

On one occasion, his philandering was nearly exposed when he was set up to
appear on the television programme This Is Your Life.

The subject of the show was always tricked into appearing by some ruse to get
them to the studio. On this occasion, Todd was asked to appear on an unrelated
show.

LIVING in the country -- he had become a successful dairy-farmer -- he saw it as
an opportunity to slip his marital ties for the evening and entertain a
girlfriend overnight at his London pied-a-terre.

Meanwhile, his wife, aware of the ruse to get him to London, had made
arrangements to stay at the same London flat to spend a romantic evening with
her husband after the show.

'It was a close shave,' recalled Lennard, who heard at the last minute of Todd's
plan and was able to hustle him out of the apartment before Mrs Todd arrived.

As the Sixties faded, his days as a big star were over.

Nevertheless, he continued to work regularly in B-movies and on television in
such much-loved series as Midsomer Murders, Holby City and Murder, She Wrote. He
was appointed OBE in 1993.

But his two sons' deaths haunted this hero as terribly as the war did. 'Richard
was a survivor, but felt that he shouldn't have survived,' a mutual friend told
me last night.

It was cancer that killed Todd, who faced his illness with the courage and
dignity with which he had conducted the rest of his life. But then this brave
actor of the old school wouldn't have had it any other way.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

National: Special report: Countdown to Copenhagen: Hellbent on sabotage or just
misguided? Meet the climate sceptics: Scientists fear oddball coalition may
influence Copenhagen talks

BYLINE: James Randerson

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1426 words


As climate sceptics began unwrapping the package of illegally hacked emails sent
by scientists at the University of East Anglia, they could have been forgiven
for thinking that Christmas had come early. Just when even the US government had
come round to the view that climate change was a serious man-made problem that
needed radical international action, here apparently was the ammunition the
sceptics needed to sway public opinion and again begin poking holes in the
science of global warming.

The climate scientist at the centre of the row, Prof Phil Jones, stepped down
temporarily as head of the university's climatic research unit on Thursday while
an independent inquiry into the emails is carried out. He denies any suggestion
that he manipulated or withheld data, but people on all sides of the debate
agree that the affair has dented the public's trust in climate scientists.

The early gifts for the sceptics have not stopped there, though. On Wednesday,
Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd's cap and trade bill was defeated in the
senate by conservatives who are sceptical about global warming and greens who
thought it was not radical enough. Rudd's opposition counterpart, who had
supported the bill, was forced out in a sceptic-led coup.

In the UK, leading figures in the Conservative party came out on Thursday
against David Cameron's stance on climate change and his "vote blue, get green"
strategy. David Davis denounced what he called the green movement's "ferocious
determination to impose hairshirt policies on the public". In response, the
energy and climate change secretary, Ed Miliband, branded Davis and the former
chancellor Lord Lawson "saboteurs" and "profoundly irresponsible" for
endangering the chances of a deal at the UN climate summit at Copenhagen, which
starts next week.

It is tempting to see all this as a rise in sceptical thinking as the world
contemplates the economic consequences of massive cuts in its carbon emissions.
But that is too simplistic, says Bob Ward, communications and policy director at
the Grantham Research Institute at the London School of Economics, which is
headed by Lord Stern. "I don't think there's been a rise in scepticism," he
said. "All that's happening is that the sceptics are now down to a small enough
group that they are able to band together and gloss over their differences."

The differences are huge. Some, like Christopher Monckton, a hereditary peer and
former policy adviser to Margaret Thatcher, believe that climate change and the
Copenhagen summit are part of a global conspiracy whipped up by former
communists. "They are about to impose a communist world government," he told an
audience in St Paul, Minnesota, during a tour of the US in October. "You have a
president who has very strong sympathy with these points of view and he'll
sign." Monckton has also been advising Ukip on its stance on climate change. The
BNP leader, Nick Griffin, who will be part of the EU delegation to Copenhagen,
also equates environmentalists and communists. "Climate change is their new
theology . . . but the heretics will have a voice in Copenhagen and the truth
will out. Climate change is being used to impose an anti-human utopia as deadly
as anything conceived by Stalin or Mao."

Dr Benny Peiser, director of Lawson's sceptic PR outfit, the Global Warming
Policy Foundation (GWPF), agrees that many on the sceptic and denial side of the
global warming debate are politically motivated. They oppose many policy
measures being proposed to tackle global warming on ideological grounds and that
is why they attack the science. "I think that's a fair observation, at least for
many," he said. "People are indeed concerned about the whole government
intervention - what we eat, what we do, how we spend our holidays."

That does not apply to the GWPF though, he said. "We are certainly not taking a
critical stance on the basic science of the greenhouse effect or the fact that
CO2 emissions in the atmosphere are having an effect on the climate." He said
the foundation exists to help restore a less "hysterical" and "emotional" debate
on the subject and promote what he calls a more "flexible and long-term
approach" to the problem.

But Ward says the GWPF has not stayed aloof from the science. On its website is
a graph showing the global temperature record since the beginning of the
century. It showed a decline in temperature since 2003 which Ward said was
contrary to the true measurements, and he said that by leaving out the
temperature trend during the 20th century the graph obscured the fact that eight
of the 10 hottest years on record have occurred this century. The GWPF blamed a
"small error by our graphic designer" for the mistake which would now be
changed, but said that starting the graph earlier would be equally arbitrary.

Lawson's foundation has also faced criticism over its funding. It is set up as a
charity that receives donations from individuals and charitable foundations.
Peiser said it did not take money from people with links to energy companies or
from the companies themselves. But he would not reveal how many donors there
are, what the maximum donation is or the identity of the donors.

Those who have been the target of attacks from climate sceptics for years argue
sceptics' arguments, funding and motivation should be subjected to the same
level of transparency that the climate scientists at the heart of the email
hacking row are now receiving.

One sceptic who has come in for a lot of criticism from mainstream scientists is
the Australian geologist Professor Ian Plimer. His book, Heaven and Earth -
about what he calls the "missing science" of global warming - has been reprinted
six times in the UK since its publication in March and has sold more than 30,000
copies in Australia. In July, the Spectator ran a cover feature about the book
under the headline Relax: global warming is all a myth. The influential
backbench Tory MP Douglas Carswell has said that reading the book overturned his
belief that climate change is a man-made phenomenon, while Plimer says that the
new Australian opposition leader, Tony Abbott, was converted to the sceptic
cause by reading it.

Plimer, who has been in the UK this week promoting his book, says that climate
change is not caused by human activities. He denounces mainstream scientists as
behaving like a "mafia organisation" who try to squash dissent.

His book has been criticised by mainstream scientists as riddled with errors and
misrepresentations of climate data. The first graph in the book purports to use
temperature data from the Met Office's Hadley Centre and the Climatic Research
Unit at the University of East Anglia, but many of the data points are in the
wrong place.

Another graph in the opening pages shows the global temperature record during
the 20th century. Plimer does not give a source in the book but it looks
remarkably similar to a graph used by Martin Durkin in his documentary The Great
Global Warming Swindle. The programme was castigated for its inaccuracies by
Ofcom and the graph was subsequently withdrawn by Durkin.

Potentially more damaging - because geoscience is his specialist field - is his
claim that volcanoes are responsible for more CO2 emissions than human
activities. The US Geological Survey says that humans in fact create 130 times
the CO2 volcanoes do. Plimer now claims that the USGS figure only includes
volcanoes on land, not undersea eruptions at mid-ocean ridges. But Dr Terrence
Gerlach of the USGS said the 130 figure includes the underwater volcanoes.

The real question, though, is whether any of this matters. China and the US have
now announced their opening bids for curbs on carbon emissions. At least in
their rhetoric, most of the world's governments agree on the need for action at
Copenhagen, so will the row over the East Anglian emails and the blogosphere
punch-ups have any effect?

There are already signs that the row is gaining traction in the US and
Republicans are likely to try to use the emails as a reason to further delay
President Obama's energy legislation, which is stalled in the Senate. Diplomatic
squabbles over the extent of cuts and funding for adaptation in the developing
world are likely to be big enough stumbling blocks on their own at Copenhagen
without revisiting the science. Even a meaningful "political agreement" at the
talks looks touch and go. If that fails to materialise it will be the sceptics'
biggest Christmas present of all.

Captions:

The Spectator and Express this week ran sceptical stories on their front page

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The past comes back to haunt John Bercow - and his other half;
She was a 'ladette'. He penned a politically incorrect dating guide. It's not
been a good week for the Speaker, says Andy McSmith

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 874 words


NOTHING IS, or should be, less controversial than the annual Hansard Society
lecture given by the Speaker of the House of Commons. When the Speaker assumes
office, he or she sheds all old political loyalties and thereon steers clear of
any divisive issues. Once a year, he delivers a talk to the great and good about
the importance of maintaining high standards of public service in Parliament.

Last week, this task fell to John Bercow, the 105th Speaker of the Commons. Mr
Bercow took care to explain - in case anyone present did not already know - that
his role did not allow him to venture into party politics. Yet in the question
and answer session, he faced aggressive questions from the audience about his
attitude to Britain's future in Europe - a reminder that people who think EU
membership is a conspiracy against the British people by the political class are
gunning for John Bercow.

Controversy has hovered over the head of the diminutive Mr Bercow ever since he
was elected to succeed Michael Martin in June. No previous Speaker has gone into
a general election fearing that he might lose his seat, because they are
protected by a convention that none of the main political parties puts up a
candidate against the Speaker. Fringe parties have not signed up to the deal,
but they have never yet posed a serious threat to any Speaker, since it is one
of the greatest offices in the British parliamentary system.

But Mr Bercow became Speaker at a time when the public's respect for Parliament
is at an all-time low, which makes the past an uncertain guide to the future. He
is being challenged, in his Tory seat of Buckingham, by the former leader of the
UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage, a clever and energetic campaigner who looks
and sounds more like a middle class Tory than Mr Bercow does. This is not
surprising, because Mr Farage's father was an eminent City trader, whereas Mr
Bercow is the son of a minicab driver from Essex.

To add to the danger, the bundle of right wing prejudices that Mr Farage will
bring to the campaign trail are very similar to those that fired Mr Bercow when
the Buckingham Tories first chose him as their candidate, 13 years ago. He is
from the generation of working-class Tories who idolised Margaret Thatcher and
despised those who preceded her. His patron was that implacable Thatcherite,
Norman Tebbit. When Mr Bercow arrived in the Commons in 1997, Labour called him
"Tebbit the Younger".

But he has since been on a political journey that has taken him so far from the
Tory right that it was widely though incorrectly rumoured that he was going to
defect to Labour. His support in the election for Speaker came principally from
Labour MPs. And although Mr Bercow has not joined the Labour Party, he has in a
sense, married into it. His wife, Sally Illman, is from a very different
background. He went to a state school in Finchley; she went to Marlborough
College, one of the country's most-expensive boarding schools. She was a Tory
once, but campaigned for Tony Blair in 1997.

Tory wives are usually expected to help their husbands by attending party
functions, such as coffee mornings - but Sally Bercow is now standing as a
Labour candidate for a council seat in Pimlico. She is unlikely to win it, but
she hopes it will be a step towards a Labour seat in the Commons.

This week, she gave a startling interview to the Evening Standard, in which she
opened the cupboard to show the world the skeletons it contained, to head off
the risk that they might be uncovered later. In the interview, she praised
Gordon Brown as "peerless", dismissed David Cameron as "a merchant of spin" and
the Conservative Party as the "party of the privileged few". But what made the
headlines was her frank statements about drink and casual sex.

"I was an argumentative, stroppy drunk," she said. "I would end up sometimes at
a bar and someone would send a drink over and I'd think, 'Why not?' and we'd go
home together. I liked the excitement of not knowing how a night was going to
end. It was all very ladette."

It has now emerged the Speaker also has form. A comic article he wrote when he
was a 23-year-old Tory councillor in Lambeth has come to light, in what must be
an excruciating reminder of the youth he once was. "The John Bercow Guide to
Understanding Women" includes such observations as "women will settle for
anything that breathes and has a credit card".

One section was headed "How to pick up virgins". Another was "How to get rid of
a girl after sex". He also suggested "Maybe we could go back to your place and
name your breasts" as a chat-up line. The Tory MP Nadine Dorries has said openly
that Mr Bercow and his wife have shown such "poor judgement" that he ought to be
removed from the Speaker's chair. If the Tories win the next election, they may
put that threat into action, if Mr Bercow is still there. But that is not his
immediate worry. Before that, there is the question of how this week's
revelations will go down with the Conservative voters of Buckingham.

Speaker Martin was the first in more than 300 years to be sacked by his fellow
MPs. Speaker Bercow is in danger of being the first to be sacked by the voters.

"This week has shown that the election is far from over"

Editorial, page 40

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

Speaker's wife tells of one-night stands;
I was a stroppy, argumentative drunk ... someone would send over a drink and
we'd go home together, confesses Sally Bercow

BYLINE: Stephen Adams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 663  words


SALLY BERCOW, the wife of the Speaker of the Commons, has admitted to having a
string of one-night stands in her twenties and being "a big binge drinker''.

The 40 year-old, who has three children with John Bercow, said she was an
"argumentative, stroppy drunk'' who "had no stop button'' when she was younger.

She said she would sometimes drink two bottles of wine a day while behaving like
a "work hard, play hard'' ladette.

Explaining why she was giving such a graphic account of her twenties, she said
she wanted all her "skeletons'' to come out before she entered politics.

She is to stand as a Labour councillor in Westminster next May and hopes to
become an MP.

Last month it emerged that Mrs Bercow was sacked from her job with the London PR
firm Consolidated Communications in 1994. It said she had misled them about her
Oxford qualifications.

She neglected to include that she had not completed her degree, but left Keble
College after two years.

She said of her past: "I was a big binge drinker in my twenties.

"In the mid-Nineties I was working in advertising and I would drink wine at
lunch then go out and drink a bottle in the evening: most evenings really. I had
no stop button,'' she said.

Mrs Bercow admitted that sometimes she drank so much "I would end up falling off
the bar stool''. At her worst, she was "an argumentative, stroppy drunk''.

She also had several "flings''. She said: "I would end up sometimes at a bar and
someone would send a drink over, and I'd think, 'Why not?' and we'd go home
together. I liked the excitement of not knowing how a night was going to end. It
was very ladette - work hard, play hard.

"I would lose my judgment and put myself in danger. I'd fall asleep on the Tube
and end up in Epping or Heathrow. And I'd get unlicensed minicabs: all the
things we'd tell our daughters not to do.''

Mrs Bercow said she stopped drinking nine years ago "because it wasn't fun any
more''.

"I went to AA for a couple of meetings. It was very helpful at first. But then I
thought I could give it up myself - and I did. Never touched a drop since.''

Of the incomplete CV, she said: "In hindsight, maybe I should have done it
differently, but I wanted a job and didn't tell any lies.''

She said there were frequent arguments in the Bercow household over politics.

Mrs Bercow said David Cameron was "a merchant of spin'' and "an archetypal
Tory''. She said: "He favours the interests of the few over the mainstream
majority.''

The Conservative Party was "not really interested in opportunity for all''. Mrs
Bercow claimed that Mr Cameron might well send his children to private secondary
school when they reached that age. She said: "I don't even want to send the
children to the grammars in John's constituency. I'm strongly against selection
because it entrenches privilege.''

This drew a sharp response from Buckinghamshire Conservatives. David Rowlands, a
county councillor, said: "Our very high standards in GCSEs and A-levels show how
well our kids perform.''

Mrs Bercow said she tried to convince her husband to defect to Labour, but he
was "a Tory through and through''. Mr Bercow was elected to replace Michael
Martin, now Lord Martin of Springburn, as Speaker in June after the former
Glasgow North East MP was forced to stand down for his handling of the MPs'
expenses scandal.

The then Sally Illman first met her future husband at the age of 19 through the
Oxford University Conservative Association, which she joined "for social
reasons''.

Last month, the couple, who married in 2002, came under scrutiny for spending
pounds 45,000 of taxpayers' money refurbishing the Speaker's grace-and-favour
Palace of Westminster apartment, where they live. Mrs Bercow said half the money
was spent on maintenance. They redecorated because their son Oliver, who is
autistic, was disturbed by the red decor.

Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader, is to break with convention by standing
against Mr Bercow in his Buckingham constituency at next year's general
election.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 4, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

I believe UKIP is the best party to rescue our nation;
LEADER

BYLINE: Lord Pearson

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 862  words


AT midnight on Monday Britain ceased to be a sovereign nation in full charge of
its own destiny. That is when the fully ratified Lisbon Treaty came into effect,
giving Brussels the ability to accrue new powers over our lives whenever it
feels like it.

This betrayal of 1,000 years of British history was planned and implemented by a
Labour regime that promised voters a referendum in order to keep the issue of
Europe out of the last general election but cynically withdrew the offer once
that election was won.

But the entire professional political class of this country is culpable. The
Liberal Democrats also supported a referendum but would not vote for it in
Parliament. Then they moved the goalposts, backing a referendum on "in or out"
of the EU.

Now they have withdrawn that offer too because they fear the answer they would
get.

The Conservatives may have opposed Lisbon in Parliament but once it had been
ratified their "cast-iron" promise of a referendum was withdrawn as well. A
stunned electorate finally learned what David Cameron meant when he had told
them he would not let matters rest if Lisbon was ratified under Labour.

He meant that he would let matters rest because keeping in with the European
elite mattered more to him than defending British sovereignty.

N O WONDER so many voters have come to regard these parties as much of a
muchness. The "Lib Lab Con" is not a bad collective description. That is why I
am today asking the readers of this great newspaper to support a different
political approach.

A week ago I had the honour of being elected leader of UKIP.

My task is to build on the groundbreaking results of June when what is
essentially an amateur, grassroots army of volunteers was able to beat the
Government in a national election. It was a turning point.

Our headline policy, the one which unites us with the majority of people in
Britain, is our desire to govern ourselves.

We believe the decisions that govern our lives should be made not by faceless
Eurocrats and foreign politicians but by those we elect, and that we can throw
out at the ballot box.

This of course is at odds with the political elite who govern us today, those
who, safe with their tax-funded salaries and pensions, wish upon us a life of
technocratic rule. They are absolute in their belief that they know how to live
our lives better than we do ourselves.

But it is not only on Europe that we have policies to break the cowardly,
politically correct consensus of the Lib Lab Con.

We are also deeply sceptical of the new religion of man-made global warming.
It's the focus group favourite. It is also the most catastrophic misuse of
dubiously collated statistics yet unleashed upon the world.

That climate changes is not in doubt. That we must conserve, protect and care
for our environ ment is a must. But to pillage the public purse and come over as
moral superiors takes a special talent and establishment talent at that.

As always with science the jury is out. UKIP takes the scientific method
seriously.

Then there is the issue of tax.

All parts of the Lib Lab Con are planning yet more tax rises for after the
election. We beg to differ. This summer the Chancellor of the Exchequer charged
the taxpayer to employ an accountant to sort out his own taxes that he didn't
understand. When you have a taxation system that taxes those on the minimum wage
it's time for change. No tax system should be too complicated for us to
understand.

To that end UKIP proposes of the personal allowance and an end to the fiction
that national insurance is different from income tax.

All will gain but those who gain most roportionally will be those who work hard
for modest pay.

O N EDUCATION I believe in parental choice and rigorous academic standards. I
support the creation of new grammar schools so that bright children from modest
backgrounds can fulfil their academic potential.

Such an opportunity should not be the sole preserve o children of the wealthy as
is increasingly the case.

The family in a council estate deserves the chance to have the best education
that this country has to offer, not to be condemned to accept what the local
council deems they must have. Parents in the state sector should have
taxpayerfunded vouchers so the onus is on schools to compete for pupils and not
the other way round.

Finally I can give this personal pledge: I will never pretend to be something I
am not. Like David Cameron I had the good fortune to be educated at Eton
College. Unlike him I will not resign my membership of my London club on the
advice o spin doctors.

I will not stop taking part in country sports. I do not cycle to the Houses of
Parliament but if I take it up I will not have my briefcase transported in a car
following behind me and when I am next at the Field o along a personal
photographer to turn the occasion into rather than a precious chance to reflect
on the supreme sacrifice made by so many Britons for the country they loved.

The great Eurosceptic Labour leader Hugh Gaitskell once promised to "fight,
fight and fight again" to save the party he loved from extremism.

With your help I pledge to fight, fight and fight again to save the country that
we all love so much.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BETRAYAL: Gordon Brown signs the Lisbon Treaty BETRAYAL: Gordon Brown
signs the Lisbon Treaty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

G2: Voters doesn't seem to care about class, but they do hate phoneyness - as
David Cameron may find to his cost

BYLINE: Alexander Chancellor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 988 words


There are now two old Etonian party leaders in Britain. The first is David
Cameron. The second is Lord Pearson, the newly elected leader of the United
Kingdom Independence Party.

Cameron has called the members of UKIP "fruit cakes, loonies and closet racists
mostly", and he may well be right. But Lord Pearson has one thing that Cameron
hasn't got, and that is total contentment with his station in life. Although he
was at Eton, he made his own money and used it to acquire a large grouse moor in
Perthshire and all the other appurtenances of an old-fashioned country grandee.
Furthermore, he could not be more delighted with his new status. "Unlike David
Cameron," he said in his first interview after being elected UKIP leader, "I am
not going to give up (deer) stalking, nor am I going to resign from White's"
(White's, in St James's Street, being the ultimate toffs' club, of which
Cameron's father Ian was once chairman). Lord Pearson seems to have
authenticity; Cameron, by contrast, appears not to.

It is not Cameron's class background that Gordon Brown is now seeking to
exploit, but his perceived phoneyness. When Cameron says that what matters is
not where a politician comes from but where he is going, most people probably
agree. The huge swing to the Conservatives in last year's Crewe and Nantwich
byelection was achieved despite (or even because of) Labour's unconvincing
attempt to portray the Tory candidate, Edward Timpson, as a snooty, upper-class
twit. This, and the great popularity of Cameron's Eton and Oxford contemporary
Boris Johnson, suggests that the electorate nowadays doesn't care much about
class. But above all, voters want their politicians to be themselves, and they
are quick to pick up any sign that they may be

dissimulating in some way.

Hence the force of Brown's attack on Cameron during Wednesday's Question Time -
"The voice may be that of a modern public relations man. The mindset is that of
the 1930s." This is probably unfair: Cameron may, for example, be genuine in his
concern for the poor, his love of the NHS, and his support for women's rights.
But his decisions to give up hunting and shooting and other things he used to
like (such as belonging to White's), his environmentally fashionable bike-riding
with his car following furtively behind, and his cultivation of the image of an
ordinary middle-class bloke, lay him open to suspicions of

insincerity. Tony Blair could also have been accused of being like "a modern
public relations man"; but, strangely, he came across as a genuine PR man,
whereas Cameron seems to be putting even that on. People may therefore be ready
to believe Brown's claim, whether true or not, that Cameron is secretly on the
side of the rich against the poor.

His reported advice to Annunziata Rees-Mogg, the Tory candidate for Somerton and
Frome, that she change her name to "Nancy Mogg" - thus making her sound more
like one of

Tiger Woods's alleged girlfriends than the daughter of the great Lord Rees-Mogg,
distinguished columnist and former editor of the Times - may have been intended
as a joke, but it doesn't help, either.

Don't 'transgress' on a mobile

Talking of Tiger Woods, how did he get away with it for so long? Or rather, what
did he get away with, since those "transgressions" and "personal sins" to which
he confessed in his statement were not specified. We may, however, perhaps
venture a guess that they could have had something to do with one or more of the
three women - called Uchitel, Moquin and Grubbs - whose photographs have
appeared

all over the media during the past few days. Certainly, the message he left on
the answerphone of Jaimee Grubbs, the Las Vegas cocktail waitress, warning her
that his wife, Elin Nordegren, had been checking on his phone and might ring
her, pointed in that direction.

Woods is the most famous and richest sportsman in the world, constantly pursued
by the media; so you'd think it would be impossible for him to get up to
anything naughty without being found out. But President Kennedy was even more
famous and got up to an amazing amount of naughtiness, while retaining, like
Woods, a reputation for being a model family man. What protected the president
from exposure was not only the loyalty of his staff but also the fact that he
didn't drive his own car or possess a mobile phone (the latter having not then
been invented).

Nearly all celebrity scandals of recent times can be traced back to incidents
involving cars or mobile phones. Teddy Kennedy's disgrace at Chappaquiddick
resulted from a car

accident, while Hugh Grant's dalliance with the prostitute Divine Brown was
revealed only because a policeman saw it happening in a car on Sunset Boulevard.
We might also never have known about George Michael's drug habit if he hadn't
been found slumped at the wheel of a car at a road junction in north London. So
my advice to celebrities behaving badly is don't drive, and don't leave text or
voicemail messages on people's phones. You are almost bound to be found out if
you do.

The voice of the underdog

It is possibly her striking lack of resemblance to Uchitel, Moquin and Grubbs
that explains Susan Boyle's astonishing success in the United States. Her debut
album, I Dreamed a Dream, sold 701,000 copies in its first week, the biggest
opening-week sale for any album in America this year. "It's the unlikely
pop-star Cinderella story," explained one recording industry analyst. "It's so
moving to a lot of people, who see something of themselves in her. They like to
see the underdog achieve" - even though, if truth be told, most sopranos in an
opera chorus probably sing rather better than her.

This week:

Alexander celebrated the annual visit to Milton Keynes of Glyndebourne on Tour
by going to a performance of Janacek's Jenufa: "A grim story, but wonderful
music, beautifully performed under the baton of 26-year-old Robin Ticciati.
Sometimes life in the south Midlands doesn't feel so bad."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

The Bercows' Labour-Tory coalition

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliffguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 587 words

ABSTRACT

Gaby Hinsliff: Sally Bercow's ladette past have set tongues wagging, but the
juicier question is just how cross-party romances work

FULL TEXT

Oh, to be a fly on the wall chez Bercow right now.

A day after the Speaker of the Commons's wife (and wannabe MP) , the fallout is
contaminating Sally Bercow's husband too. There are even predictions John Bercow
will lose his seat to UKIP.

One imagines she is mortified: one imagines he is - well, what? His wife's past
wild oats don't actually seem that wild. Plenty of recovering, and indeed not at
all recovering, alcoholics have succeeded at Westminster. And arguably she is
entitled to a professional life of her own: why can't she have an opinion on
David Cameron ("merchant of spin", since you ask) without compromising her
husband's required neutrality?

Nevertheless, it was naive not to realise how newsworthy this would be. The
rules for political spouses remain weirdly fixed in the 1950s: show up, and shut
up. Even spouses of the same party expressing fractionally different opinions
hit the front page, as Cherie Booth QC discovered every time she debated human
rights.

But in the Bercows' case, beyond the age-old gender politics questions, there is
a more basic issue. What fascinates, given how closely politics reflects our
personal values, is how you can fall in love with someone whose politics you
loathe.

As a wannabe Labour MP married to a former Tory MP (although many colleagues
regard him as having drifted so far left that he has effectively defected), the
Bercows are a rare example of a cross-party coalition.

It can work, of course. Boris Johnson may not be the best advert for marital
bliss, but he and his wife Marina, a liberal left lawyer, respect each other's
politics: the mayor took David Miliband seriously as a prospective Labour leader
because Marina rated him.

Cross-party fraternisation at Westminster is certainly more common than you'd
think. Perhaps it's the lure of the taboo: perhaps just that people who hold
opposing views, but hold them passionately, have more in common than a
Westminster junkie and indifferent non-voter. More usual is for couples to share
an allegiance but with an different emphasis - such as the boho Samantha
Cameron, who softened some of her husband's fogeyish tendencies.

But while many Tories regard Sally Bercow as a sort of sexual Lady Macbeth,
tempting her husband to perdition, inconveniently Bercow was already rethinking
what she calls his "headbanger" roots before they wed.

It also ignores the interesting detail that they first met through the
university Conservative Association, although Sally hurriedly insists she joined
just for the social life. Perhaps what the Bercows tell us is that right and
left are now so close that cross-party romances will increasingly flourish. More
likely what the couple really have in common is a certain ideological
flexibility. Which right now, they'll need.

The Bercows clearly discussed the practicalities of her new career: they
certainly discussed tactics for that interview (John told her to play down how
much she actually drank, apparently).

But if he loves her as much as his colleagues think, then doubtless he'll
forgive her. Maybe the recriminations flying round the Speaker's apartments now
are less between husband and wife than between wife and whoever did her PR
strategy. Let's just hope, for the sake of the Conservatives' pro-marriage
policy, that wasn't him.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

Climate sceptics: are they gaining any credence?

BYLINE: James Randersonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1620 words

ABSTRACT

Hacked emails and a political victory in Australia have emboldened the denial
lobby

FULL TEXT

As climate sceptics began unwrapping the package of illegally hacked emails sent
by scientists at the University of East Anglia, they could have been forgiven
for thinking that Christmas had come early. Just when even the US government had
come round to the view that climate change was a serious man-made problem that
needed radical international action, here apparently was the ammunition the
sceptics needed to sway public opinion and again begin poking holes in the
science of global warming.

The climate scientist at the centre of the row,  as head of the university's
climatic research unit on Thursday while an  into the emails is carried out. He
denies any suggestion that he manipulated or withheld data, but people on all
sides of the debate agree that the affair has dented the public's trust in
climate scientists.

The early gifts for the sceptics have not stopped there, though. On Wednesday,
Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd's  by conservatives who are sceptical about
global warming and greens who thought it was not radical enough. Rudd's
opposition counterpart, who had supported the bill, was forced out in a
sceptic-led coup.

In the UK, leading figures in the Conservative party came out on Thursday
against David Cameron's stance on climate change and his "vote blue, get green"
strategy. David Davis denounced what he called the green movement's "ferocious
determination to impose hairshirt policies on the public". In response, the
energy and climate change secretary, Ed Miliband, branded Davis and the former
chancellor Lord Lawson  for endangering the chances of a deal at the , which
starts next week.

It is tempting to see all this as a rise in sceptical thinking as the world
contemplates the economic consequences of massive cuts in its carbon emissions.
But that is too simplistic, says Bob Ward, communications and policy director at
the , which is headed by Lord Stern. "I don't think there's been a rise in
scepticism," he said. "All that's happening is that the sceptics are now down to
a small enough group that they are able to band together and gloss over their
differences."

The differences are huge. Some, like Christopher Monckton, a hereditary peer and
former policy adviser to Margaret Thatcher, believe that climate change and the
Copenhagen summit are part of a global conspiracy whipped up by former
communists. "They are about to impose a communist world government," he told an
audience in St Paul, Minnesota, during a tour of the US in October. "You have a
president who has very strong sympathy with these points of view and he'll
sign." Monckton has also been advising Ukip on its stance on climate change. The
BNP leader, Nick Griffin, , also equates environmentalists and communists.
"Climate change is their new theology ... but the heretics will have a voice in
Copenhagen and the truth will out. Climate change is being used to impose an
anti-human utopia as deadly as anything conceived by Stalin or Mao."

Dr Benny Peiser, director of Lawson's sceptic PR outfit, the , agrees that many
on the sceptic and denial side of the global warming debate are politically
motivated. They oppose many policy measures being proposed to tackle global
warming on ideological grounds and that is why they attack the science. "I think
that's a fair observation, at least for many," he said. "People are indeed
concerned about the whole government intervention - what we eat, what we do, how
we spend our holidays."

That does not apply to the GWPF though, he said. "We are certainly not taking a
critical stance on the basic science of the greenhouse effect or the fact that
CO2 emissions in the atmosphere are having an effect on the climate." He said
the foundation exists to help restore a less "hysterical" and "emotional" debate
on the subject and promote what he calls a more "flexible and long-term
approach" to the problem.

But Ward says the GWPF has not stayed aloof from the science. On its website is
a graph showing the global temperature record since the beginning of the
century. It showed a  which Ward said was contrary to the true measurements, and
he said that by leaving out the temperature trend during the 20th century the
graph obscured the fact that eight of the 10 hottest years on record have
occurred this century. The GWPF blamed a "small error by our graphic designer"
for the mistake which would now be changed, but said that starting the graph
earlier would be equally arbitrary.

This is a question of where do you start - perhaps 3bn years ago or 5m years
ago," Peiser said.Lawson's foundation has also faced criticism over its funding.
It is set up as a charity that receives donations from individuals and
charitable foundations. Peiser said it did not take money from people with links
to energy companies or from the companies themselves. But he would not reveal
how many donors there are, what the maximum donation is or the identity of the
donors.

"They are all highly respected donors. But that's not our decision," he said,
adding that he would need their permission to make them public. He said people
could have confidence in the independence of the GWPF because donors are
approved by the charity's board of trustees. "These are very eminent people.
These are not some kind of weirdos," he said.

Those who have been the target of attacks from climate sceptics for years argue
sceptics' arguments, funding and motivation should be subjected to the same
level of transparency that the climate scientists at the heart of the email
hacking row are now receiving.

One sceptic who has come in for a lot of criticism from mainstream scientists is
the Australian geologist Professor Ian Plimer. His book, Heaven and Earth -
about what he calls the "missing science" of global warming - has been reprinted
six times in the UK since its publication in March and has sold more than 30,000
copies in Australia. In July, the  about the book under the headline Relax:
global warming is all a myth. The influential backbench Tory MP Douglas Carswell
has said that reading the book , while Plimer says that the new Australian
opposition leader, Tony Abbott, was converted to the sceptic cause by reading
it.

Plimer, who has been in the UK this week promoting his book, says that climate
change is not caused by human activities. He denounces mainstream scientists as
behaving like a "mafia organisation" who try to squash dissent. "[Climate change
science] has all the hallmarks of a fundamentalist religion," he said, "You
demonise your opponents and you engage in anything to get the message done."

His book has been criticised by mainstream scientists as riddled with errors and
misrepresentations of climate data. The first graph in the book purports to use
temperature data from the Met Office's Hadley Centre and the Climatic Research
Unit at the University of East Anglia, but many of the data points are in the
wrong place.

Another graph in the opening pages shows the global temperature record during
the 20th century. Plimer does not give a source in the book but it looks
remarkably similar to a graph used by Martin Durkin in his documentary The Great
Global Warming Swindle. The programme was  and the graph was subsequently
withdrawn by Durkin.

Potentially more damaging - because geoscience is his specialist field - is his
claim that volcanoes are responsible for more CO2 emissions than human
activities. The US Geological Survey says that humans in fact create 130 times
the CO2 volcanoes do. Plimer now claims that the USGS figure only includes
volcanoes on land, not undersea eruptions at mid-ocean ridges. But Dr Terrence
Gerlach of the USGS said the 130 figure includes the underwater volcanoes.

Dr Adam Corner, an expert in the psychology of climate change at Cardiff
University, said that the climate sceptic arguments are very attractive to the
person on the street. "[The sceptics] offer an escape route from the conclusion
that things are going to have to change," he said. An idea that challenges
government intervention into how we eat, how we travel and where we go on
holiday is bound to find fertile ground. "There's a challenge for the
environmental movement to not present [climate change arguments] in that way,"
he added.The real question, though, is whether any of this matters. China and
the US have now announced their opening bids for curbs on carbon emissions. At
least in their rhetoric, most of the world's governments agree on the need for
action at Copenhagen, so will the row over the East Anglian emails and the
blogosphere punch-ups have any effect?

There are already signs that the row is gaining traction in the US and
Republicans are likely to try to use the emails as a reason to further delay
President Obama's energy legislation, which is stalled in the Senate. Diplomatic
squabbles over the extent of cuts and funding for adaptation in the developing
world are likely to be big enough stumbling blocks on their own at Copenhagen
without revisiting the science. Even a meaningful "political agreement" at the
talks looks touch and go. If that fails to materialise it will be the sceptics'
biggest Christmas present of all.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 4, 2009 Friday 6:59 PM GMT

Four drubbings and a political funeral: Cast-Iron Dave gets the finger from
voters

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 643 words


To slump to 37 per cent support in one opinion poll (Ipsos MORI, 22 November)
may be regarded as a misfortune; to do so in two (Com Res, 1 December) begins to
look like carelessness, as Lady Harriet Harridan observed in that Noel Coward
comedy... er... whatever. For Dave, the born-to-rule Prime Minister-in-Waiting,
busily despatching his babes as candidates to hold sway over the turnip-munching
masses of rural Britain, it came as an unwelcome distraction to find himself
slithering down a snake in the board game of public popularity.

Not to worry, loyal palace eunuchs assured the Commander of the Faithful: even
if his lead was slashed to six points in the Ipsos MORI poll, other surveys were
still producing 17 per cent leads. Even Dave was disturbed, however, to note
that seven out of 10 polls in November put him somewhere in the high 30s and so
short of that magic minimal plateau of 40 per cent that he must achieve in order
to impose carbon taxes, five-watt mercury light bulbs and compulsory travel by
bicycle on Britain.

The fightback was robust. Mention of hung parliaments was forbidden in Wisteria
Mansions, while the tree-hugging offensive was stepped up. Pointy-heads were set
to analyse the poll data and duly concluded that public disaffection from Dave
had ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to do with his ratting on a Lisbon Treaty referendum. His
supporters had recourse to that blustering clich invariably invoked by
politicians when opinion polls bite them on the rear-end: the only polls that
matter are votes in the ballot box.

Beware of getting what you wish for. Over the past 24 hours real polls have
arrived. Last night, in the local government by-election in Dane Valley, North
Thanet, Labour took the seat from the Conservatives. That's right: the almost
forgotten phrase on your screen is 'LAB GAIN'. The Tories, who formerly held the
seat, came in third, with 24 per cent of the vote - a drop of 20 per cent.

Spinners hastened to emphasise that there had been personal issues regarding the
previous Tory incumbent who had spent too much time, it was thought, in Panama.
The defeated Conservative candidate blamed the weather (Tory voters cannot get
to the polls in bad weather, as it muddies their 4x4s, whereas Labour voters
trudge out fearlessly in leaky galoshes).

The weather must have been truly hellish in the Ormesby ward at Redcar and
Cleveland, whose by-election result has just come in this afternoon. There the
Tories came fourth, behind UKIP, with 5.2 per cent of the vote - which makes the
Com Res 37 per cent seem a too-die-for, unattainable aspiration for Cast-Iron
Dave. I understand that only under cover of late night will the pantechnicon
deliver its emergency supplies of brown trousers and bicycle clips to the back
door of Wisteria Mansions.

Dave and the Modernisers are snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. After
the Lisbon betrayal, when Climategate gave them a heaven-sent opportunity to
slow down the voter-repellent green balderdash, the counterintuitive response
was for Tim Yeo to claim that climate sceptics were elderly and would soon die
off. It's true, the pictures of those computer geeks deconstructing the
Climategate scam suggest some of them are already into their late thirties,
unlike fresh-faced, perennially youthful, 64-year-old Tim Yeo.

You do not have to be a professional psephologist to see that there is now
something seriously wrong with the Vichy Tory Party and its Blair-cloned leader.
Even the True Believers on websites like ToadyHole are crunching the numbers
frenziedly, only to find that even data processing methodologies pioneered at
the "University" of East Anglia do not compute a Vichy landslide. Tree-hugging,
hoodie-embracing, high taxing, Stonewall-friendly, Euro-compliant, A-listing,
female quota-driven - what's not to like? Stick to your guns, Dave - I blame the
voters.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 4, 2009 Friday 11:43 AM GMT

Revealed - the Labour MPs who attended grammar schools

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 978 words


Following Sally Bercow's statement that she's against grammar school education
because "it entrenches privilege", Working Class Tory has an interesting list:

Diane Abbott (Hackney North and Stoke Newington)

Nick Ainger (Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire)

Graham Allen (Nottingham North)

David Anderson (Blaydon)

Janet Anderson (Rossendale and Darwen)

Hilary Armstrong (North West Durham)

Charlotte Atkins (Staffordshire Moorlands)

John Austin (Erith and Thamesmead)

Adrian Bailey (West Bromwich West)

Vera Baird (Redcar)

Margaret Beckett (Derby South)

Stuart Bell (Middlesbrough)

Roger Berry (Kingswood)

Liz Blackman (Erewash)

Hazel Blears (Salford)

David Borrow (South Ribble)

Karen Buck (Regent's Park and Kensington North)

Richard Burden (Birmingham Northfield)

Colin Burgon (Elmet)

Alan Campbell (Tynemouth)

Martin Caton (Gower)

Colin Challen (Morley and Rothwell)

Ben Chapman (Wirral South)

David Chaytor (Bury North)

Paul Clark (Gillingham)

Vernon Coaker (Gedling)

Ann Coffey (Stockport)

Rosie Cooper (West Lancashire)

Jeremy Corbyn (Islington North)

David Crausby (Bolton North East)

Tony Cunningham (Workington)

Janet Dean (Burton)

Andrew Dismore (Hendon)

Frank Dobson (Holborn and St. Pancras)

Jeffrey Ennis (Barnsley East and Mexborough)

Bill Etherington (Sunderland North)

Paul Farrelly (Newcastle-under-Lyme)

Frank Field (Birkenhead)

Michael Foster (Hastings and Rye)

Hywel Francis (Aberavon)

Bruce George (Walsall South)

Neil Gerrard (Walthamstow)

Mark Hendrick (Preston)

John Heppell (Nottingham East)

Stephen Hesford (Wirral West)

Patricia Hewitt (Leicester West)

Keith Hill (Streatham)

Kate Hoey (Vauxhall)

Kelvin Hopkins (Luton North)

Kim Howells (Pontypridd)

Beverley Hughes (Stretford and Urmston)

John Hutton (Barrow and Furness)

Eric Illsley (Barnsley Central)

Glenda Jackson (Hampstead and Highgate)

Alan Johnson (Hull West and Hessle)

Diana Johnson (Hull North)

Martyn Jones (Clwyd South)

Gerald Kaufman (Manchester Gorton)

Alan Keen (Feltham and Heston)

Stephen Ladyman (South Thanet)

Tony Lloyd (Manchester Central)

Andrew MacKinlay (Thurrock)

Christine McCafferty (Calder Valley)

Sarah McCarthy-Fry (Portsmouth North)

John McDonnell (Hayes and Harlington)

Tony McNulty (Harrow East)

Alun Michael (Cardiff South and Penarth)

Austin Mitchell (Great Grimsby)

Madeleine Moon (Bridgend)

Kali Mountford (Colne Valley)

Denis Murphy (Wansbeck)

Edward O'Hara (Knowsley South)

James Plaskitt (Warwick and Leamington)

Greg Pope (Hyndburn)

Stephen Pound (Ealing North)

Joan Ruddock (Lewisham Deptford)

Christine Russell (City of Chester)

Martin Salter (Reading West)

Alison Seabeck (Plymouth Devonport)

Barry Sheerman (Huddersfield)

Sin Simon (Birmingham Erdington)

Alan Simpson (Nottingham South)

Dennis Skinner (Bolsover)

Andrew Smith (Oxford East)

John Smith (Vale of Glamorgan)

Peter Soulsby (Leicester South)

Helen Southworth (Warrington South)

Jack Straw (Blackburn)

Gerry Sutcliffe (Bradford South)

David Taylor (North West Leicestershire)

Stephen Timms (East Ham)

Paddy Tipping (Sherwood)

Jon Trickett (Hemsworth)

Des Turner (Brighton Kemptown)

Neil Turner (Wigan)

Joan Walley (Stoke-on-Trent North)

Alan Whitehead (Southampton Test)

Alan Williams (Swansea West)

Mike Wood (Batley and Spen)

Phil Woolas (Oldham East and Saddleworth)

Tony Wright (Cannock Chase)

Derek Wyatt (Sittingbourne and Sheppey)

What have they all got in common? Yes, they were all grammar school-educated.
WCT also has a list of Labour MPs who were privately educated, andI suspect that
in 20 years time the second list will be significantly larger than the former,
as the abolition of the grammar system has reduced the proportion of the
state-educated at the top of every profession. Those who do come through the
state system and reach the top will largely have attended the handful of
successful comprehensives littered across London, all of which have catchment
areas that exclude all but the richest members of society.

When the grammar school system was set up at the end of the Second World War,
state school pupils accounted for 38 per cent of Oxford's intake; by the time it
was abolished that figure had risen to 70 per cent. Now it's down to 55 per
cent, despite Oxford being under considerable pressure to go easy on those who
didn't have the advantage of a private education.

One thing grammar schools don't do is "entrench privilege". The reason the New
Left hates them is not because they favour the wealthy, which they don't, but
because they contradict the basic tenet of their ideological belief that people
are intellectually equal and that all behaviour, achievement or failure, decency
or criminality, is based on environmental factors out of our individual control
and only fixed by the iron fist of socialism. Incidentally this is a fairly
recent belief in the UK - the Labour party of Clement Attlee would be closer to
UKIP than any other of today's parties on this matter.

As Peter Hitchens writes inThe Broken Compass:

Rich and powerful Leftists know perfectly well what makes a good education for
their own young, just like the elite Moscow parents, KGB officers, party
apparatchiks and Central Committee members who in Soviet days used every ounce
of influence to get their young into Secondary School Number One in Moscow. I
know one product of this school whose incorruptible grandfather, a stern former
Red Army general and medal-hung veteran of the Great Patriotic War, abandoned
his Bolshevik principles for the only time in his life to secure her entry to
this first-rate establishment. A similar system was still operating, in 2008, at
the Lenin High School in Havana, notorious in Cuba for favouring the children of
the Castro-supporting elite. North Korea has a comparable arrangement involving
the Mangyongdae Revolutionary School in Pyongyang.

Change "Lenin High School" and "Secondary School Number One, Moscow" to "the
London Oratory" and "William Ellis School" and that paragraph could equally
apply to New Labour-controlled Britain.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday

LADY ASHTON, CND AND THE SOVIET CASH QUESTION

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 423 words


BRITAIN'S new EU foreign policy chief Baroness Ashton came under fire for her
links to the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament yesterday.

The surprise pick as Brussels' first foreign minister was cross- examined about
whether she ever accepted money from the Soviet Union during her days with CND.

Lady Ashton was treasurer of the group during the 1980s when it campaigned to
stop U.S. nuclear missiles being deployed in the UK to protect Britain from
Russia.

She came under fire from Tory MEP Charles Tannock as she spent two hours
answering questions from European Parliament members on how she plans to
represent the EU on the global stage.

Lady Ashton said: '1982 is actually quite a long time ago. I hope you ask me a
foreign policy question the next time.'

Allegations that CND accepted funds from the communist regime in Moscow have
been made by Vladimir Bukovsky, a former Soviet dissident who has said it is
'very likely' that CND received ' unidentified income' from Moscow in the 1980s.

Lady Ashton has maintained that she had no contacts with the Soviet Union and
had never accepted money from Moscow.

But continuing scrutiny of her role will do little to increase confidence in her
selection as High Representative for foreign affairs. The former Labour
quangocrat ennobled by Tony Blair had no previous experience of foreign affairs
before she was shoehorned into the job by Gordon Brown in the horsetrading over
the Lisbon Treaty.

It is the second time in the space of a week that Baroness Ashton's past has
come under scrutiny.

The UK Independence Party has written to European Commission President Jose
Manuel Barroso, asking him to investigate whether Lady Ashton was party to
payments allegedly made to CND from the Soviet regime in Moscow.

Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage raised public questions about CND's funding last
week.

The MEP was reprimanded for asking in the European Parliament whether Mr Barroso
would investigate whether Lady Ashton had received money 'from enemies of the
West'.

He said she was not 'a fit and proper person to do this job'.

Lady Ashton's office issued a statement saying she 'left CND in 1983 and had no
involvement after that'.

Her spokesman said: 'Like many young people in the late 1970s, Catherine Ashton
was involved in the big campaigns of the time.

'She never visited the Soviet Union, she had no contacts with the Soviet Union
and she never accepted any money from Soviet sources.

The first time she ever visited Russia was as trade commissioner. She has never
been a member of the Communist Party.'

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Only EU poll will ensure election victory for Tories

SECTION: LETTERS; 35

LENGTH: 155  words


DAVID Cameron is surely handing election victory to Labour if he does not give
us a referendum on Europe. At the same time, he must tighten UK border controls
and deal with the problem of illegal immigrants by hastening their return to the
country of origin.

If he promises none of these things, many people will simply transfer their vote
to UKIP or the BNP, thereby reducing the Conservative vote to the point that
Labour will end up winning.

Does he not realise that Brussels is interfering in nearly every aspect of
everyday government (with a lot more to come) and costing us a great deal of
money that could go towards paying off the enormous national debt created by
Labour?

There is no way we should allow Gordon Brown and his cronies to serve another
term.

Come on, Mr Cameron, Europe and immigration are the topics of most importance to
the majority of the population. Isn't it time you woke up to the fact?

F Lambert, Luton, Beds

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday

G2: A merry Delia Christmas to us all!: She's incredibly polite. She doesn't
lick her spoons. She has a cat. Zoe Williams on why Delia Smith's old-school
presentation style is an absolute joy

BYLINE: Zoe Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 853 words


You know when you have an affair with someone who's been married for a long
time, and they can do all the stuff right, but they get the words all wrong,
like they're having sex in the 80s? That's what Delia's Classic Christmas -
which started this week on BBC2 - is like. She is a cook from the olden days;
she's the ghost of Christmas past.

I love Delia. I certainly don't want her to change: but it feels like someone
should make a list of all the things that Delia still does that no other TV cook
would do any more. Some of which

Nigella wouldn't even know how to do.

She does not look like she's just rolled out of bed, or as if she's in her
everyday clothes, or as if she's just hanging with her homies in her

jimjams. I'll tell you what she looks like, she looks like a person who thought
"I'm going to be on telly, I'd better go and buy something to wear. I wonder if
someone would do my makeup for me? Here are some earrings, they'll look smart."
She looks like she's dressed for a drinks party, and her husband's boss might
turn up (though I believe, technically, she is her husband's boss. But I point
that out for feminist-propaganda reasons).

I love this starchy air. The producers hate it. They are constantly trying to
get her to josh with the viewer ("Chefs will hate this, but we don't mind about
chefs, because we're home cooks," she says, in a way that is indeed meant to be
chummy), or invest her sentences with exaggerated expression ("one hundred and
SEVENTY degrees", she instructs, at one point, as if she's just taken delivery
of a great surprise).

But these producers would be mad.They do not realise what gold they're dealing
with, as they attempt with their reverse-alchemy to turn her into Gary Rhodes.
Any idiot can be themselves; there are only about two people left alive who know
how to address the world with a courteous formality, and Delia is one of them.

She still measures spices out by the teaspoon. Wait, wait, and then, once she
has measured them, even though they're all going into the same pudding, she
keeps them in separate little piles on a plate. Just so she can look at them and
think "Ah, yes. I measured that." She never sticks her fingers in anything, she
doesn't lick spoons, she doesn't use "a bit" of anything, I wonder if she is
even familiar with the word "some". It's true you never see her washing her
hands (it's the BBC, it's not CBeebies), but I get the impression that her hands
have never actually been dirty. The rubric of cook-ertainment has long held poor
hygiene to be an index of youth, and that's true - Delia, older, hygienic;
Nigella, less old, less hygienic. But it's gone too far; the next generation of
telly chefs will be cooking with one thumb up their arse. Delia will stop the
rot, I hope.

She goes on about British puddings and great British sauces in a way that sounds
a bit Ukip. I don't mind this. It would be sad if Ukip made us ashamed to
celebrate Cumberland sauce.

She uses the word "cold cuts". She mentions the fact that double cream is highly
calorific, and therefore should only be used as a special treat (it has become
very unfashionable to admit that some food is more fattening than other food. I
suspect this is a snob thing; that rich people don't do it because they are kept
thin by, I don't know, horseriding, bone structure, inadequate central heating .
. . If rich people don't do it, then it is not posh, and the rest of us
shouldn't do it).

But Delia is right. Cuts of cold meat are cold, and double cream is very
fattening. She is a big fan of bechamel sauce. This really is 80s, it might even
be 70s. Nobody makes a roux anymore. Even the sight of a floury sauce takes me
back to school dinners. Man alive, that's not all! She just used cornflour in a
custard. I saw it with my own eyes. That's the bit that chefs disapprove of,
apparently. I'm with the chefs, here. Cornflour is a weird thing in a sauce. But
I have to admire her chutzpah.

Oh my God, the soundtrack: Bob Marley's Stir It Up, while she is stirring!

She has footage of her cats stalking across her garden. Ever since a sitcom made
a joke about spinsters liking cats in the 1980s, regular people ceased to keep
them as pets.

She does novelty packaging, with food - some Christmassy pudding where the
filling is wrapped in filo, to look like a cracker. "This looks fiddly," she
starts, as if she's going to give you a really good reason why all that fiddle
was worth it. "But look, it's done now!" Huh, it looks fiddly. It is fiddly.
There is no higher purpose. But this task is not eternal. At some point, it will
be finished. This is incredibly Fanny Cradock. Nobody else alive would turn
their puddings into crackers, or wrap up their boeuf en croute to look like a
present (come on, what's the message there, anyway? Look, for your present I got
you this big lump of meat. Now you have to share it with me and my husband).

She's lovely. She's so polite. I'm going to have a Delia Christmas this year,
for sure.

Delia's Classic Christmas continues on Tuesday at 9pm on BBC2

Get Delia's Christmas top tips and recipes for Christmas

guardian.co.uk/lifeandstyle/deliasmith

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday

National: Lady Ashton ducks foreign policy detail in Brussels debut

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 447 words


Lady Ashton of Upholland launched her career as Europe's top diplomat yesterday
with an exposition thin on foreign policy substance, but a robust rebuttal of
critics who claim she is not up to the job.

A day after taking up work as the EU's first high representative for foreign and
security policy, Ashton faced her first parliamentary grilling in Brussels and
was told she had to come back with better answers.

Questioned by the European Parliament's foreign affairs committee Ashton ducked
the detail on issues ranging from Georgia to Honduras, Cuba to Afghanistan.
While hardly displaying the authority and command of detail of the US secretary
of state, Ashton was hailed by a supporter as Europe's answer to Hillary
Clinton.

The Labour peer and former leader of the Lords said she had received a voicemail
from David Cameron congratulating her on her new job. She dismissed David
Miliband's call for star quality in Europe's top jobs by denying she wanted to
stop the traffic in Washington or Beijing.

"Actually, I want to keep the traffic moving," she said. And she won applause
from the chamber in Brussels after a Tory MEP suggested she was unfit for the
office.

"As to why I was chosen, it was because 27 heads of government invited me. I may
not be your choice but I appear to be theirs."

The UK Independence party sought to embarrass Ashton by imputing that her days
in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament in the 1980s were sullied by red gold -
KGB money pouring in CND's heyday to weaken the west.

Ashton thanked the UKIP MEP, David Campbell-Bannerman, for giving her prior
warning that he would be bowling a googly. But the anti-nukes money had come not
from Moscow Central, rather from buckets held out on wet and windy street
corners.

"You will understand 1982 is a long time ago," she said. "I did not take any
money direct from a Communist country. I was always a member of the Labour
party. CND was an organisation that democratically marched for what it believed
in. Thirty-eight per cent of the money was not part of the audited accounts. I
ordered the first audit, so that you know. This was because the money was
collected in buckets. I cannot tell you where all the money came from."

When Geoffrey Van Orden, the veteran Tory MEP, suggested she should resign when
Cameron won the general election, Ashton offered to let him listen to the
supportive voicemail from Cameron after she won the post. German liberal,
Alexander Lambsdorff, made clear she would not be given the benefit of the doubt
for long.

Darling happy with EU deal, page 28

Captions:

Lady Ashton was questioned by the EU's foreign affairs committee for two hours
and was told to return with

better answers

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday

National: Lady Ashton ducks the foreign policy detail in Brussels debut: MEP
bowls a googly at first high representative: Cameron's warm words disarm Tory
critic

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 625 words


Baroness Ashton of Upholland launched her career as Europe's top diplomat
yesterday with an exposition thin on foreign policy substance, but a robust
rebuttal of critics who claim she is not up to the job.

A day after taking up work as the EU's first high representative for foreign and
security policy and before jetting off to Madrid, Lady Ashton faced her first
parliamentary grilling in Brussels and was told she had to come back with better
answers next time.

Questioned by the European Parliament's foreign affairs committee for two hours,
Lady Ashton ducked the detail on issues ranging from Georgia to Honduras, Cuba
to Afghanistan. While hardly displaying the authority and command of detail of
the US secretary of state, Ashton was hailed by a supporter as Europe's answer
to Hillary Clinton.

The Labour peer and former leader of the Lords said she had received a voicemail
from David Cameron congratulating her on her new job. She dismissed David
Miliband's call for star quality in Europe's top jobs by denying she wanted to
stop the traffic in Washington or Beijing.

"Actually, I want to keep the traffic moving," she said. And she won applause
from the chamber in Brussels after a Tory MEP suggested she was unfit for the
office.

"As to why I was chosen, it was because 27 heads of government invited me. I may
not be your choice but I appear to be theirs and I will do my best to do the job
as best as I possibly can."

The UK Independence Party sought to embarrass Ashton by imputing that her days
in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament in the 1980s were sullied by red gold -
KGB money pouring in in CND's heyday to weaken the west.

Ashton thanked the UKIP MEP, David Campbell-Bannerman, for giving her prior
warning that he would be bowling a googly. But the anti-nukes money had come not
from Moscow Central, rather from buckets held out on wet and windy street
corners.

"You will understand 1982 is a long time ago," she said. "I did not take any
money direct from a Communist country. I was always a member of the Labour
Party. CND was an organisation that democratically marched for what it believed
in. Thirty-eight per cent of the money was not part of the audited accounts. I
ordered the first audit, so that you know. This was because the money was
collected in buckets and one of the great joys of being young, and not so young,
was to march for things that were incredibly important. So if I cannot tell you
where all the money came from, you won't be surprised."

When Geoffrey Van Orden, the veteran Tory MEP, suggested she should resign when
Cameron won the general election, Ashton offered to let him listen to the
supportive voicemail from Cameron after she won the post a fortnight ago at an
EU summit.

"Your leader was one of the first to congratulate me. I was extremely pleased he
welcomed me so warmly," she said. "I imagine that my appointment may have come
as somewhat of a surprise to many of you - perhaps to all of you. It was quite a
surprise for me too, but a very welcome one.

"There has also been some talk of a lack of experience, and you might say that
if you define experience very narrowly. However, I have never been someone who
has considered things from a narrow perspective, and I have 28 years of
experience of negotiation, of consensus-building and of advocacy."

While Ashton dealt deftly with the attempted put-downs from British MEPs, she
was found wanting on the international issues piling up on her desk. "It's only
her second day," muttered an aide.

But the German liberal, Alexander Lambsdorff, made clear she would not be given
the benefit of the doubt for long. "We want more specific answers when you come
back to us in January."

Captions:

Lady Ashton arrives for the foreign affairs committee meeting

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Lord of misrule;
The new Ukip leader's honeymoon ended as soon it had begun. Already Lord Pearson
is accused of selling out to the Tories. And then there's the rich landowner's
claim for £100,000 in parliamentary expenses. By Andy McSmith

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 949 words


Lord Pearson, the newly elected leader of the UK Independence Party, has
certainly obeyed the first rule for incoming party bosses - make a big impact
from day one.

He has been in the job less than a week, and in that time he has detonated a row
that could rip the Ukip apart; he has been sucked into the expenses saga; and he
has added a new dimension to the image of his party, which until now has been
seen as a single-issue campaign, obsessed with the European Union.

Malcolm Pearson is immensely rich. Until 2007, he owned a town house about a
mile from the House of Lords, and a 12,000-acre estate in Perthshire, where he
employs servants. Like certain MPs, he has a rather ... flexible attitude about
which is his "main residence". But when he sold his London house in June 2007,
for £3.7m, he told inland revenue that it was his "principal residence", to
avoid £275,000 capital gains tax. That is legal, but there are MPs who have been
pilloried for less.

But it is the political row that he unexpectedly detonated inside Ukip which
could be the most serious threat to his authority and his party's future. He had
been in his new job only 24 hours when he let on that he had been involved in
making overtures to the Conservative Party about an electoral pact.

The deal that Lord Pearson and the previous Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, were
offering was that they would pull out of the next general election altogether,
and thereby give Tory candidates a better chance in marginal seats, if David
Cameron would promise a referendum which would give the British the chance to
pull out of the EU altogether.

He defended this policy in the first press release issued from Ukip headquarters
under his leadership, entitled "Putting Country Before Party". "Of course we
will do deals," he insisted. "If we could get a written guarantee of a
referendum on our relationship with a post-Lisbon European Union, then it would
be the right thing to do. Now I am leader that position does not change."

This could all be dismissed as make-believe, because there is not yet the
slightest sign that David Cameron is prepared to dignify Ukip by talking to
them. Three years ago he described Ukip as "fruit cakes, loonies and closet
racists mostly". But it has been taken seriously by several Ukip candidates, who
are outraged that all their efforts to build support locally could be wasted
when Lord Pearson tells them to stand down because he has signed a pact with the
Tories.

Gerard Batten, the London MEP who came second in last week's Ukip leadership
contest, accused Lord Pearson of "a betrayal of Ukip and its members". He added:
"Lord Pearson won Ukip's leadership contest without mentioning the proposed
deal. Had he spoken up before the campaign there would have been a completely
different result."

Nigel Farage, who stood down from the leadership to pursue a Commons seat,
vigorously defended his successor, and insisted that the whole furore had been
whipped up by people who had not understood what Lord Pearson had proposed.
"This is not about the Lisbon Treaty. The deal was unequivocally that there
would be a referendum on the EU, in or out," he said. "And we never offered to
disband Ukip. The offer was not to contest one general election."

But Mr Farage sounded less keen on some of the other things Lord Pearson has
said since becoming leader. While Mr Farage was leader, he battled to rid the
party of its reputation for being "closet racists", but Lord Pearson has decided
that the party should raise its public image with a high-profile campaign
against Islamic extremism. He claims that "our people" are "strangers in our own
land". Mr Farage warned: "The issue should be discussed, but it's very important
we get the tone right."

It might seem strange that an experienced politician should set off such a
bitter argument inside his own party on almost his first day as leader.
Actually, Malcolm Pearson is not an experienced politician. He has stood for
election only twice in his life. The second time was when he won the Ukip
leadership. The first was when he became a prefect at Eton.

He is a businessman who made a fortune chairing the Pearson Webb Springbett
(PWS) Group of reinsurance brokers, which he founded in 1964, at the age of 22.
As well as being an inveterate campaigner against the EU, he has two issues
known to be close to his heart. One of his daughters, born in 1980, had severe
learning difficulties, which has made him a campaigner for residential care, and
a critic of "care in the community".

He has shown an equally passionate concern for the wellbeing of Scottish
landowners. Years ago, he made a marathon speech that filled 49.5 inches of
Hansard on the Deer (Amendment) (Scotland) Bill, which threatened to take some
of the fun out of deer stalking. He identified himself in that speech as an
"absentee landlord", even though he had registered Perthshire as his main
residence.

After he was awarded a life peerage by Margaret Thatcher in 1990, Lord Pearson
became one of the Conservative Party's most consistent advocates of outright
withdrawal from the EU. Frustrated that this was not official party policy, he
went public in 2004 in calling on Tory voters to switch to Ukip in the European
elections. That earned him prompt expulsion from the Tory group in the House of
Lords. He switched to Ukip soon afterwards.

If it is true that there is no such thing as bad publicity, Malcolm Pearson's
leadership is off to a good start - but at present, that is not how it looks
from the outside. It looks as if Ukip has chosen a maverick amateur politician
who at 67 is too old to learn to work in a team. That suggests that there is
more trouble ahead for Ukip and its leader.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 3, 2009 Thursday 3:03 PM GMT

Has Mrs Bercow just handed Buckingham to UKIP?

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 329 words


Anne McElvoy has produced a fascinating interview in the Evening Standard with
Sally Bercow, the wife of Mr Speaker. Westminster is naturally taken by her
remarkably candid account of her younger days as a binge drinker and, ahem, good
time girl. "I had no stop button," she says. "Someone would send a drink over
and I'd think, why not, and we'd go home together." She explains her honesty as
a desire to reveal all her "skeletons" before standing for Parliament in the
Labour interest. Some whisper though that her hand may have been forced by a
Sunday newspaper.

The interesting stuff though is what she has to say about David Cameron and
selective education. "He's just a merchant of spin. I think he's really an
archetypal Tory. He favours the interests of the few over the mainstream
majority. Deep down, I do think the Tory party is for the privileged few and
what it stands for isn't in the interests of most ordinary people. They're not
really interested in opportunity for all. He has his children at state school
now but let's see what happens at secondary level. There's not a real commitment
to the state sector among the Tories. The vast majority of the shadow cabinet
send their children privately."

What will go down even worse though in her husband's Buckingham constituency is
what she has to say about grammar schools: "I don't even want to send the
children to the grammars in John's constituency. I'm strongly against selection,
because it entrenches privilege." This will be like a red rag to a bull in
Buckingham, where some Tories are deeply uneasy about Mr Bercow's love affair
with Labour that helped secure him the Speakership. They may not take kindly to
having the wife of the sitting MP attacking institutions in which they take
great pride. Mrs Bercow's interview may have helped her cause to become a Labour
candidate, but it may also have done great harm to Mr Bercow's chances against
Nigel Farage. Has she just handed a plum Tory seat to UKIP?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

EU takes charge of Britain. . . in a flash

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 524  words


TOP Eurocrats celebrated a "shameful" new era of Brussels domination last night
with a lavish ceremony and fireworks - funded by cash squeezed out of taxpayers
across Europe.

New EU President Herman van Rompuy and other senior EU chiefs toasted victory
after the controversial Lisbon Treaty, handing a vast swathe of powers from
Westminster to Brussels, officially became law across the 27-nation EU on the
stroke of midnight on Monday.

Mr van Rompuy and EU foreign affairs chief Baroness Cathy Ashton were among EU
bureaucrats who cheered the landmark occasion at a glittering ceremony and
banquet in Lisbon.

In Britain, angry anti-EU critics declared the UK's independence over. But
campaigners pledged to continue the fight against the emergence of a Brussels
superstate. UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: "This day should go
down in history as national loss of independence day.

We now live in a new legal order.

We are just a province of a new legal entity called Europe."

UKIP yesterday launched a national campaign for a referendum on whether Britain
should quit the EU. Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Britain has ceased to be a
sovereign country. Shamefully, the freedoms our forefathers fought for have been
given away by the politicians at Westminster.

We need a referendum now."

The Lisbon Treaty abolishes dozens of national vetoes over Brussels
decision-making and creates the unelected post of President of the Council of
the European Union. Mr van Rompuy, the unknown Prime Minister of Belgium,
formally takes up that post on January 1.

Last night the Tory leadership condemned the Treaty as a "denial of democracy".

But they conceded David Cameron will have to work within the framework if he
becomes Prime Minister. Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois said: "Now that the
Treaty's ratified we need to do what we can to sort out this mess. We should
have British guarantees to fix how the worst parts of the treaty apply to us.

"We must make sure this can never happen again by changing the law to make
referendums compulsory on any new Treaty that would hand over power."

Downing Street officials attempted to play down the significance of the Treaty
yesterday.

The Prime Minister's spokesman claimed former Labour minister Baroness Ashton's
tenure as the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs was a cause for
celebration. He said: "It can only be good for Britain."

But ex-EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana gave a glimpse of the true
impact of the Treaty. He said: "I hope very much people are sensible and realise
it is a fantasy to think any EU nation can do anything alone."

Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, whose country holds the rotating EU
presidency until the end of the year, said:

"Today the EU is a force to be reckoned with, both economically and politically.

"A new era of European cooperation beings today."

Lorraine Mullally, of Eurosceptic think tank Open Europe, said: "As of today,
there is virtually no area of policy the EU cannot now touch.

"Unaccountable, unelected EU politicians and judges have sweeping new powers
over everything from our criminal justice systems to asylum policy."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unelected President van Rompuy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU takes charge of Britain . . . in a flash

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 842  words


FAT cat Eurocrats celebrated a "shameful" new era of Brussels domination last
night with a lavish ceremony and fireworks - all at the hard-pressed taxpayers'
expense.

New EU President Herman van Rompuy and Brussels chiefs toasted victory as the
Lisbon Treaty, which moves vast swathes of power from Westminster, became law
across the EU at midnight on Monday.

Mr van Rompuy and EU foreign affairs chief Baroness Cathy Ashton were among the
EU bureaucrats who cheered the landmark occasion at a glittering ceremony and
banquet in the Portuguese capital.

But in Britain, angry anti-EU critics declared that it signalled the end of our
independence after the latest massive surrender of sovereignty to Brussels.

Campaigners have pledged to fight on against the emergence of a Brussels
superstate.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "This day should go down in
history as National Loss of Independence Day. We now live in a new legal order.
We are just a province of a new legal entity called Europe."

UKIP yesterday launched a national campaign for a referendum on whether Britain
should quit the EU. Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Britain has ceased to be a
sovereign country. Shamefully, the freedoms our forefathers fought for have been
given away by the politicians at Westminster.

We need a referendum now."

Tory Euro MP Daniel Hannan said: "It is appalling, demeaning, disgraceful that
such a thing should have been done without popular consent and in the absence of
the referendum that all three parties had promised."

The Lisbon Treaty abolishes dozens of national vetoes over Brussels
decision-making and creates the unelected post of President of the Council of
the European Union. Mr Rompuy, the little-known Belgium Prime Minister, formally
takes up that post on January 1.

Last night the Tory leadership condemned the treaty as a "denial of democracy"
but conceded David Cameron will have to work within the framework if he becomes
Prime Minister.

Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois said: "Now that the Treaty is ratified we
need to do what we can to sort out this mess.

We should have British guarantees to fix how the worst parts of the treaty would
apply to us.

"We must make sure this can never happen again by changing the law to make
referendums compulsory on any new treaty that would hand over areas of power
from Britain to the EU."

But Downing Street officials attempted to play down the significance of it
yesterday.

The Prime Minister's spokesman claimed former Labour minister Baroness Cathy
Ashton's appointment was a cause for celebration. He said: "It can only be good
for Britain."

But former EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana gave a glimpse of the true
impact of the treaty. He said: "I hope very much people are sensible and realise
it is a fantasy to think any EU nation can do anything alone."

Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, whose country holds the rotating EU
presidency until the end of the year, said: "Today the EU is a force to be
reckoned with, both economically and politically. A new era of European
cooperation beings today."

But scepticism about the treaty appears to be spreading across Europe.

An article in the German newspaper Die Welt yesterday warned: "Through the
treaty, Europe will neither become more effective nor more democratic, neither
more transparent nor more open."

Lorraine Mullally, of Eurosceptic think-tank Open Europe, said: "As of today,
there is virtually no area of policy the EU cannot now touch.

"Unaccountable, unelected EU politicians and judges have sweeping new wers over
everything from our criminal justice systems to asylum policy."

WHY THE TREATY IS A LICENCE TO MEDDLE

EU President

This is effectively a figurehead for the whole EU. Mr van Rompuy will be paid
GBP 320,000 a year. His No 2 is former Labour quango-crat Baroness Ashton, who
becomes the EU High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, with a
salary of GBP 270,000 a year.

Ending Britain's veto

Decisions no longer have to be unanimous. A majority of votes, with bigger
populated nations having a bigger share, is enough to swing a decision. It means
Britain could easily be outvoted but forced to accept EU decisions. Tax and
defence are exempted but issues including immigration, asylum and fighting crime
are not. However, the UK can currently opt out of decisions on these issues.

More powers to interfere

The EU will be allowed influence over national decisions in policy areas
including health, education, tourism, energy, sport and space.

The European Parliament

The European Parliament, which routinely shuttles between Brussels and
Strasbourg, gets more power. It is dominated by pro-federalists.

Euro MPs get GBP 81,420 a year plus annual expenses, including staff costs, of
up to GBP 800,000 a year.

European Commission

The executive body is being cut from 27 to 18 members. Only two-thirds of states
will have their own commissioner at any one time and each country will lose its
commissioner for five years.

Because Baroness Ashton has a top post, the UK cannot nominate any
commissioners.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unelected President van Rompuy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday

Ukip leader rejects link to bribery inquiry

BYLINE: David Leigh and Rob Evans

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 417 words


Ukip's new leader, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, sought to defend himself yesterday
against mounting questions about his business and financial activities.

In a statement from Ukip headquarters, Pearson said he was "not involved" in the
recent sale of his insurance brokers, PWS, while it was under investigation by
the Serious Fraud Office over bribery allegations.

The sale of the profitable parts of the business and the liquidation of the rest
means the company will face no corporate penalty if the SFO mounts a successful
prosecution, because it now has no money.

Pearson also faces allegations published by the Telegraph that he avoided
£275,000 capital gains tax on the recent sale of his London home, by declaring
it as his main residence. He had previously claimed £100,000 in House of Lords
overnight allowances, on the grounds that his "main residence" was 450 miles
away on his 12,000-acre Scottish estate. Pearson, who was given a peerage by
Margaret Thatcher in 1990 before breaking with the Tories and joining the
anti-EU group, said: "In common with usual practice, my principal residence for
tax purposes has always been the house which I thought I was most likely to
sell. That is normal."

He added: "It would have been madness not to do this basic, simple, legal thing.
Why should I lose out on this as well?".

He issued a statement about PWS, which he founded and chaired, saying: "PWS is
not the subject of any police investigation, former employees of PWS are." The
SFO says it is "vigorously investigating" allegations of bribery in Costa Rica
involving PWS. Prosecutors brought charges last month against the former
president Angel Rodriguez, and several employees of the state insurance company.

It is alleged that PWS overcharged the Costa Rican government for reinsurance at
Lloyds of its $4bn (£2.4bn) hydroelectric power stations. PWS is alleged to have
paid bribes of more than $700,000 into Panama accounts linked to the then
president, plus setting up a $1.6m "training fund" that provided trips for state
employees.

Pearson's lawyers said in a statement: "As soon as Lord Pearson knew about the
allegations against these employees he suspended the director in question and
called in Freshfields to conduct an independent investigation. As a result of
this, the director concerned left the company and Lord Pearson has agreed to be
a witness in any eventual trial."

Pearson faces claims of involvement with a firm embroiled in a bribery scandal,
as well as allegations of expenses fraud

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday

Climate change denial is the new article of faith for the far right

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 700 words

ABSTRACT

Bob Ward: Despite a complete lack of evidence, the leaked emails hysteria has
encouraged more deniers to emerge from the shadows

FULL TEXT

It is now 12 days since the  first appeared online, and the propaganda machine
for the climate change denial lobby is in overdrive.

The University of East Anglia has rightly announced an independent investigation
into the hacking episode. It is essential that the investigation examines,
thoroughly and transparently, the substance of the email messages and
establishes whether there has been any wrongdoing. From what I have seen, there
is no evidence of research misconduct, but the only way to clear the air now is
through an investigation.

Some people have already, and predictably, taken on the role of judge, jury and
executioner, and have . Yesterday  while an inquiry is carried out. But such a
hysterical witch hunt is a sign of desperation rather than justice.

Despite nearly two weeks of frantic brandishing of the "smoking gun", there is
still no evidence of the alleged bullets that would constitute an overturning of
200 years of climate research. The greenhouse effect still exists and the Earth
is still warming.

Nevertheless, the denial lobby - and it is denial rather than scepticism because
they reject all of the evidence they don't like and embrace any alternative
theory no matter how flaky - is claiming victory. And to some extent they have
succeeded - by confusing the public and perhaps reducing public pressure on
politicians to reach a strong and effective agreement at  this month.

They have been aided in their campaign of disinformation by some feeble media
reporting. Take the , a lobby group launched on 23 November, a few days after
the stolen emails first appeared on the web. The chairman of its board of
trustees, Nigel Lawson, promoted his new group by listing alleged misdeeds by
the Climatic Research Unit and calling for a public inquiry by a high court
judge.

What Lawson neglected to mention and which no journalist sought to quiz him
about was a graph featuring prominently at the top of every page on the , using
data published by the Climatic Research Unit and the . Nor did he reveal that
the foundation had "hidden" the temperature record prior to 2001, so that
visitors could not tell that eight of the 10 warmest years since the
instrumental record began in the 19th century have occurred since 2000.

But most damagingly of all, nobody reported that the temperature data in the
graph had been inaccurately misrepresented, with 2003 wrongly appearing to be
warmer than 2005, and 2006 and 2007 erroneously appearing warmer than 2004.

Who knows, maybe the "sceptics" will be evenhanded now and call for a public
inquiry into the data on the foundation's website. But don't hold your breath.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, the hysterical atmosphere created by the emails has
encouraged more of the denial lobby to emerge from the shadows. The British
National party leader, , gave a speech in which he claimed that climate change
was a leftwing conspiracy, in much the same way as . Monckton and Prof Ian
Plimer then helped the UK Independence party to launch its own declaration of
climate change denial this week. Suddenly climate change denial has become a new
article of faith among the far right.

Who knows where this will end. The denial lobby is determined to make this story
drag on for as long as possible, and some are even claiming that it contributed
to the  this week and the . But when is all is said and done, the climate will
still be changing and the risks will be mounting.

· Bob Ward is the policy and communications director at the  at the London
School of Economics and Political Science.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 479 words


IS wearing a red ribbon to mark today's World Aids Day becoming as obligatory as
a Remembrance poppy? All contestants and judges wore one on ITV's The X Factor -
just as they wore poppies two weekends before. A source on the show says: 'Simon
Cowell insisted everyone wore one.' How about the BBC? A spokesman says: 'We
imposed no rules over wearing a poppy and we have done the same with the AIDS
ribbon.' As if they deserved equal consideration. Do they?

DID you catch UKIP's new leader, thricemarried Old Etonian life peer Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, 67, on TV? Talk about hoity toity! He made the late Oswald
Mosley sound like an Irish navvy. Pearson's supporters include cutting-edge
democrats like Lord Willoughby de Broke, 71; the Earl of Wemyss, 61, and the
Earl of Dartmouth,

60. They sound like Monty Python's Upper Class Twit of the Year.

LET it no longer be said that London mayor Boris Johnson is interested only in
boosting himself. Asked by a downmarket paper to nominate his book of the year,
the shifty, straw-haired servant of the people chose Stanley I Presume - written
not by himself but by his father, Stanley Johnson. Unselfishly, Boris described
this negligible work as 'a rip-roaring read and I hope it helps him break down
the barriers of political correctness and win the safe Conservative seat he so
richly deserves.' What a bounder!

THE National Lotteryfunded UK Film Council has chosen 13 ' ethnic' directors and
writers for an intensive programme of training and networking to promote their
careers here and in Hollywood. A beneficiary of this scheme last year was
42-year-old Kwame Kwei-Armah, pictured, who appears on Newsnight Review. How
would Kwame fare if he'd stuck with his real name, Ian Roberts, instead of
opting in his 20s for one that chimed with his Ghanaian ancestry?

CHIEF Rabbi Lord Sacks describes, during his maiden speech in the House of
Lords, his visit to a school for affluent children. He said an inspector asked a
class of eight-year-olds: 'Who can tell me the meaning of "economy?". 'One child
put up his hand and said, "Please, Sir, it's where other people sit on the
plane".' It's how Jonathan tells 'em!

IS Newbury's Hennessy Gold Cup losing its allure? Amid the horde of drunken
chavs a Hennessy helicopter touched down on the track while horses were still
running! Out of it stepped Henry 'Hooray' Conway, 26, sensitive son of disgraced
Tory MP Derek Conway, in a black and white mink coat. As the society aesthete
Brian Howard remarked when describing our gruelling, wartime retreat from
Dunkirk: 'The noise! The people!'

WH AUDEN'S brilliant biographer, Richard Davenport-Hines, says the late
intellectual Isaiah Berlin's volume Enlightening: Letters 1946-1960 - his 2009
'book of the year' choice for the Times Literary Supplement - 'reads like Proust
on amphetamines'. Look out!

E-mail: ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday

CHARLES SALE

LENGTH: 657 words


SPORTS AGENDA

BAFOKENG IS PITCH PERFECT FOR FABIO

THE quality of the practice pitches at the Royal Bafokeng sports complex outside
Rustenburg is likely to be the decisive factor when England boss Fabio Capello
makes his choice this week on England's World Cup base in South Africa.

Capello is expected tomorrow at the Bafokeng site, highlighted a year ago by
Sports Agenda as England's favoured choice. He will be shown how groundstaff
have made the playing surface on two pitches the same as at the nearby Royal
Bafokeng Stadium, which will host six games.

Training conditions are the most important factor for Capello. The Bafokeng
complex is the one in the country able to offer carbon-copy World Cup pitches.

Ironically, Steve Welch, who was sacked as Wembley groundsman following the poor
quality of the surface for last season's FA Cup semifinals, spent time in Baden
Baden before the last World Cup improving England's training pitch.

If, as expected, Bafokeng is chosen, the FA will have to decide who is allocated
the two royal and four presidential suites. The most likely incumbents of the
royal accommodation are Capello and assistant Franco Baldini, who was given the
John and Yoko love-in room at the Amsterdam Hilton when England played Holland.
FA international committee chairman Sir Dave Richards and his two committee
colleagues may get the Presidential rooms, with the other one reserved for
chairman Lord Triesman.

ccOLIn gIBSOn, head of communications at the England and Wales cricket Board,
has emerged as favourite to take charge of a revamped International cricket
council media operation. It looks likely that the Icc will shortly relocate back
to London from Dubai and gibson, who played a significant role in the successful
World Twenty20 in England last summer, would be a much-needed addition to the
staff ahead of the next Twenty20 tournament in the West Indies. This follows the
shambles of the 2007 World cup in the caribbean organised by the Icc.

FORMER England cricket captain Michael Vaughan (right), who has never given any
indication of being vain or concerned about a receding hairline, will today be
unveiled as the new face of Advanced Hair Studio following a strand-by-strand
replacement treatment. Vaughan must have been paid a considerable sum by
Advanced Hair Studio, whose Australian owners claimed to know nothing about his
hair restoration last week, to promote a company best known for restoring Shane
Warne's locks.

cTHE astonishing request to FIFa from the republic of Ireland that they should
be the 33rd team in the World cup draw on Friday following their qualifying
defeat to France due to a Thierry Henry handball was compared by FIFa president
Sepp Blatter to England's attitude after Diego Maradona's hand of god goal led
to their 1986 World cup exit. But Fa chief Ted croker thanked hosts FIFa and
Mexico and then just added his regret that England were leaving the tournament.

MISSING THE VOTE BOAT

THERE was not much evidence of the supposed new focus surrounding the England
2018 World Cup bid at the Soccerex Conference in Johannesburg yesterday. The
exhibition stand England were prevaricating about was snapped up by rivals
Russia while another bidding country, Qatar, had a big presence. Both took full
lobbying advantage when FIFA president Sepp Blatter went on a conference
walkabout. In contrast, England will be sponsoring tomorrow's closing ceremony
when a lot of the delegates will be on their way to Cape Town for the draw.

BOXING promoter Frank Maloney, who describes himself as a right-wing socialist,
will be representing anti-Europe party UKIP in Barking in the next general
Election. The seat, held by Labour MP Margaret Hodge, has also attracted the
candidature of British national Party leader nick griffin. Maloney, who has
campaigned to be London Mayor, is taking the election seriously enough to open
an office in Barking and is sure to give the odious griffin a hard time.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday

Ukip leader avoided pounds 275,000 in capital gains payment on pounds 3.7m home
sale

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 271  words


THE new leader of Ukip legally avoided a  pounds 275,000 capital gains tax bill
by telling HM Revenue and Customs that his parliamentary "second home'' was his
"principal private residence''.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch claimed about  pounds 100,000 in publicly-funded
allowances between 2001 and 2007 to cover the cost of staying at the house in
central London.

Peers can claim the  pounds 174-a-night "overnight subsistence'' allowance while
staying at a second home or hotel in the capital "for the purpose of attending''
the Lords.

He was able to claim the money because he told Parliament that his 12,000-acre
estate in Perthshire was his "main home''. However, when he sold the London
house for almost  pounds 3.7 million in June 2007, he told HMRC that the
property was his "principal private residence''. This meant that he did not pay
capital gains tax of 40 per cent on the profits from the sale. He said yesterday
that his accountant had worked out that he would have faced a tax bill for about
pounds 275,000 had he told HMRC that the property was his second home. "In
common with usual practice, my principal residence for tax purposes has always
been the house which I thought I was most likely to sell,'' he said. "That is
normal.'' He added: "It would have been madness not to do this basic, simple,
legal thing. Why should I lose out on this as well?''

Last week, Bill Cockburn, the chairman of the body that is reviewing Lords
expenses, said: "Any property that is getting taxpayer support should be
declared for tax purposes to HMRC.

"If you are getting taxpayer assistance, that genuinely is your second
property.''

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A name of two halves for posh politicians

BYLINE: David Robson Daily Express columnist-at-large

SECTION: COLUMNS; 16

LENGTH: 800  words


AS I drove home through the lashing rain late on Saturday night I found myself
strangely uplifted by a Radio5 phone-in. Lord Pearson, the new leader of the UK
Independence Party, was chewing the fat (in his case the fatted calf) with
ordinary callers from Doncaster and the like. When it was suggested rather
aggressively that the recession was unlikely to worry the plutocratic likes of
him he said he had a deer moor in Scotland where he employs two families, so
these things certainly had indeed to be thought about.

Thank heavens for a chap in politics who is willing to call a spade a spade and
a deer moor a deer moor, a chap incidentally who has made no attempt to moderate
the poshness of his accent as the Queen so regrettably has. Not to mention David
Cameron who is so much one of us he prefers not to wear a tie, let alone a
cravat. Lord Pearson, like Cameron, went to school at Eton. Harold Macmillan, an
Old Etonian, joked that Mrs Thatcher's Cabinet had "more Estonians than
Etonians." No danger of that happening with the Tories this time.

But Mr Cameron seems to believe that if you aren't just an ordinary
pull-yourself-upby-your-own-bootstraps kind of person it may make sense to try
to pass yourself off as one (or at least someone who's had to buy his own
furniture).

That's the "regularkind-of-guy" approach.

There are others: Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson plays it differently,
regularly spouting Latin and dismissing criticism as "a pyramid of piffle" (or
Pfeffel) and it works very well. He knows he is different from most of us but
none the worse for that.

To reject clever, able and ambitious people just because they're posh is
nonsense - a right load of old bull(ingdon).

There's a story going round that Cameron suggested to Annunziata Rees-Mogg,
30-year old Tory parliamentary candidate of the posh tendency, that she change
her name to plain Nancy Mogg.

HE couldn't have been serious, could he? Well maybe he could. Cameron is
suffering from double-barrelphobia. He's a firm believer that the single-barrel
name hits the spot, one-syllable-single-barrel names especially. In recent weeks
he's put his weight behind Liz Truss, a silly enough moniker but not as silly as
Nancy Mogg.

Actually the Somerset Tories are besotted with Rees-Moggery. They have chosen
Annunziata for one seat and her brother Jacob for the one next door. "Annunziata
emphasised that she grew up locally and that her priorities are tax cuts and
Europe, " said a constituency member. "That might not make her the sort of
candidate we're supposed to have chosen but it's exactly what you need to win an
election in the West Country. I was very impressed."

Though Cameron claims to be so knowing about "broken Britain" he seems to be
missing the point. In a country where marriage is a thing of the past you don't
have to be out of the top drawer to have a complicated name, or even the middle
drawer.

Millions of kids have the surnames of their mother and father stapled together
with a hyphen - there are probably constituencies where they soon will be the
majority. And first names aren't what they were. The days when Damian or Hector
or Prospero or Romeo or Annunziata or Boris were names confined to the
aristocratic and deranged are long gone. Everybody has a right to a name like
that. It's mostly posh people who insist on Tom, Ned or Jack.

Long ago and mostly thanks to glossy magazines in dentists' waiting rooms and of
course the William Hickey column in the Daily Express, I realised that it's the
triple-barrel that really does it for me. I am not sure how you get a
triple-barrel name - not all at once I hope, otherwise something quite
complicated must have been taking place in the fourposter. At any event once I
caught a distant whiff of the Vane-TempestStewart girls (so good they named them
thrice), I was spoilt for anything else.

One became Lady Annabel Goldsmith, a genuine ornament of London society. When
her daughter Jemima Khan (formerly Goldsmith) was born Annabel was still married
to her first husband Mark Birley, though in a 10-year premarital affair with
Jimmy Goldsmith. Some in Jemima's situation would call themselves Jemima
Vane-Tempest-Stewart-Birley-Goldsmith-Khan.

And why did Sir Ranulph Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes change his name to plain Ran
Fiennes - did he think the Inuit wouldn't be able to cope? Give me people whose
names sound like what they were - plain Jack Jones and Jack Dash, trade union
leaders, Eddie Clamp, the tough Fifties Wolves wing-half.

Sometimes a change is necessary for business purposes, Alicia Markova was a
better ballerina brand than the Marks she was born with, John Wayne more heroic
than his real name Marion Morrison.

But Annunziata Rees-Mogg is very much an Annunziata and very much a Rees-Mogg.
She'll let 'em have it with both barrels.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 104 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron is right man to fight our corner in Europe

SECTION: LETTERS; 57

LENGTH: 164  words


I SIMPLY cannot believe Robert Singleton's claim that David Cameron will rue his
folly in denying us a referendum on the contentious Lisbon Treaty (Letters,
November 30).

It is not Mr Cameron's fault that we did not get a vote - it was all down to
Gordon Brown, who sold us down the river by signing the treaty without giving us
a referendum, which was a Labour election pledge.

As Mr Brown signed the treaty, along with the leaders of all the other EU member
states, there is nothing Mr Cameron can do, apart from being a great deal
stronger with Brussels than the Prime Minister has managed. As Mr Singleton has
reached the age of 61 and always voted Conservative, I feel he should be
educated enough to take this message on board and not waste his vote on UKIP.

As much as I dislike the EU, we are in it and will have to make the most of it.
This means outing our unelected prime minister and placing a far stronger person
at the helm to argue our corner.

Andy Clark, Crawley, W Sussex

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 104 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Now Cameron has reason to worry;
Comment

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 408 words


Despite all Labour's travails, there have always been doubts about the strength
of the Conservatives' electoral prospects. It has never been clear that the
party had "sealed the deal" with the electorate.

For a start, the party has rarely secured much more than 40 per cent in recent
months. That was hardly the performance of a party that had the enthusiastic
support of a large section of the electorate.

Meanwhile, when, as they do each month, ComRes have asked people whether they
think of themselves as a Conservative, Labour or Liberal Democrat, those
declaring themselves Conservative have typically been no more numerous than
Labour. This suggested the Tory lead was built on soft, potentially temporary
support rather than loyal support that would necessarily be sustained all the
way through to next May.

Now those doubts have been underlined. There is still no sign of a Labour
recovery; Gordon Brown's Government remains deeply unpopular. Nevertheless, Tory
support has fallen by three points. As a result, at 10 points, the party's lead
is now no longer sufficient for Mr Cameron to be sure he would secure an overall
majority.

Individual polls can, of course, sometimes be misleading. But this is no
isolated, unusual result. It confirms a trend of slipping Conservative support
that was apparent in many polls throughout last month. Mr Cameron really does
have reason to worry. He does, after all, face plenty of competition in the
scramble for the votes of the disaffected and disappointed. The classic party of
protest, the Liberal Democrats, have been polling more strongly, at around 20
per cent, for some months now. Meanwhile smaller parties continue to register
unprecedented levels of support.

Mr Cameron must wonder in particular how many of the 6 per cent of voters who
say they would vote for Ukip might otherwise have been Conservative supporters.
He must be hoping the new Ukip leader, Lord Pearson, will prove a less effective
than his predecessor, Nigel Farage.

Still, Labour would be unwise to derive too much comfort from this poll. It
still suggests Mr Cameron will lead the next government, albeit perhaps from a
more precarious position than he would like. And if Lord Ashcroft's efforts in
marginal seats pay off, today's 10-point lead might still be enough for a Tory
majority. Even so, evidently the outcome next May is far from being a foregone
conclusion.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
