
                               1 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 28, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Don't be a loser (like me), Kilroy tells Esther;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 164 words


Esther Rantzen clearly has the judgment to go far in politics: she has decided
to reject some helpful advice from Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Esther wants to stand as an independent candidate at the next general election,
probably in Luton South where Labour's Margaret Moran has infuriated voters by
claiming a second home in Southampton as part of her expenses.

But the former presenter of That's Life has revealed that Kilroy, himself a
former Labour MP, tried to talk her out of it. "You will be humiliated and it
will be very painful," he said. "In general elections, people vote with their
tribe." Esther told a meeting in Hampstead, north London (keeping her options
open, you see, like a proper politician) that she would be ignoring the advice.

Does Kilroy feel humiliated now he's sunk without political trace? Perhaps his
mistake was moving from Labour to UKIP, as an MEP, and then to Veritas. If
people vote with their tribe, it helps to know which tribe you're supposed to be
voting for.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

3 in 4 voters back spending cuts;
Brown should accept the harsh reality ahead, poll suggests

BYLINE: Robert Winnett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497  words


MORE THAN three quarters of Britons believe that public spending should be cut
over the next few years, an opinion poll for The Daily Telegraph has found.

The findings suggest that the public does not accept Gordon Brown's argument
that spending can continue rising while Britain is facing a multi-billion pound
black hole in the public finances.

The Prime Minister is planning to fight the next general election campaign by
warning the country that the Conservatives are planning to cut public services.

The strategy has been criticised privately by Cabinet ministers and today's poll
provides some of the first evidence that it is unlikely to prove popular with
voters.

When asked how Britain's finances should be rebalanced, 31 per cent of those
questioned said "less public spending'' and 48 per cent called for a mixture of
"higher taxes'' and spending cuts. Only 12 per cent said that higher taxes alone
were the answer. This means that, in total, 79 per cent of those polled wanted
cuts to public spending. The defence and welfare budgets were identified as two
areas where expenditure should be reduced.

Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England, has called on the Government
to say how they are going to pay off increasing public debts. However, Mr Brown
has repeatedly refused to say that public spending will be cut.

The YouGov/Daily Telegraph opinion poll found that the Conservatives now have a
13-percentage point lead over Labour. The Conservatives are on 38 per cent,
Labour is on 25 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 18 per cent. However, 19
per cent of voters say they support a smaller party such as the Greens, UKIP or
the BNP.

If the results of the poll were repeated in a general election, David Cameron
would win with a healthy parliamentary majority. However, there are signs that
enthusiasm for the Conservatives has begun to fall. Last month, the
Conservatives recorded a 17-point lead during the height of the expenses
scandal. Labour has since recorded a three percentage point increase in support.

An increasing number of people also believe that government policies to tackle
the recession will work, which could boost Labour support in future. However,
just 19 per cent of voters say they are "satisfied'' with Mr Brown as Prime
Minister. More than a third, 35 per cent, say that David Cameron would make the
best Prime Minister, compared with 18 per cent for Mr Brown.

The poll results are expected to revive tensions within the Labour party over
the strategy for the next election. Senior ministers such as Alistair Darling,
the Chancellor, are said to have urged the Prime Minister to be more open about
the need for public spending cuts.

However, Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, and Mr Brown have said that spending
will continue rising even though the Government's own projections show that
expenditure on capital spending will fall sharply. Government borrowing is
forecast to increase to more than  pounds 1 trillion over the next few years.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

It's bad for Brown and not much better for Cameron;
Analysis

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657  words


THE latest YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph is further confirmation of the
dire straits that Labour is in; but it is not the ringing endorsement the Tories
would have hoped for, either.

The great expenses scandal of the past six weeks has hit the Conservatives as
hard, if not harder, than it has the Government. In April, just before this
newspaper began to expose the abuses of their allowances by MPs, the Tories had
45 per cent support to Labour's 27.

Since then, David Cameron's party has lost seven points while Labour, starting
from a lower base, has lost two  - and has even improved on its May showing.

Until the scandal broke, YouGov had registered support for the Conservatives at
more than 40 per cent every month since the autumn of 2007 - peaking at 47 per
cent and a 24-point lead in May last year.

In the past two months, however, they have dipped below 40 per cent, which is
the level of support they need even to get close to forming a government.

Mr Cameron will hope that his tough line with MPs and their agreement yesterday
to repay more money to the taxpayer, will convince voters that he has a grip on
matters.

The main beneficiaries of the decline of the two main parties remain the
"others'' like Ukip but also the Lib Dems, who are performing consistently well
with 18 per cent of the vote. They will expect to nudge above 20 points when
support for other parties begins to drift back to the mainstream as a general
election approaches.

The Tories will certainly hope Ukip voters move over to them, otherwise they
could face a hard fight winning some seats in the South East.

There are also signs that while Labour fared even worse in the PR Euro-election
earlier this month, it has probably reached rock bottom at around the mid to low
20s.

Gordon Brown's strategy is to prop up this rump support and attract back voters
who have simply stayed at home by turning the political debate into a Tory cuts
v Labour spending argument.

This message has a strong resonance among Labour voters, with 74 per cent
thinking that this is the choice at the next election, compared with 42 per cent
overall. Mr Brown is also hoping that an improvement in the economy will help
and there are signs that economic pessimism is declining. The feel-good factor
now stands at minus 20 - the best since the recession set in. A year ago, it was
minus 67.

There is also an improvement in the number of people thinking the Government's
measures either have started to work, or will start to work soon, which is now
24 per cent compared to 14 per cent in February. If these numbers continue to
rise, Mr Brown would hope to convert this sentiment into votes for Labour. But
these are straws for the desperate to clutch at. Labour on these figures is
heading for a heavy defeat, though without any guarantee that the Tories will
form a government, though they should.

Even if Mr Brown is managing to convince hard-core Labour supporters that the
public spending splurge can continue, most of the country believes there can,
and should, be deep cuts without harming services.

Public spending cuts are more popular than tax rises, with voters believing
defence and welfare able to take the biggest reductions, with health and
education least favoured for lower spending.

A belief that a lot of money is being wasted prompts nearly 80 per cent of
voters to agree that it is possible to cut 10 per cent from budgets without
harming services and far more people think the Tories could achieve this
compared to Labour.

Unsurprisingly, popular cynicism about the whole political system is hard to
dispel after the expenses scandal. The election of John Bercow as Speaker has
not impressed many, with just 17 per cent thinking he will be able to implement
radical changes.

Just 31 per cent agreed with his statement on assuming the Chair that the vast
majority of MPs are upright people who have come into politics to serve, not to
feather their own nests.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Wanted: MP without ambition for job with little status
and virtually no profile. Sign up here

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 683 words


So it's John Bercow in the Speaker's chair and now another question. Who will be
his deputy? Sir Alan Haselhurst served alongside Michael Martin. Sir Alan who?
You get the point. Thus the race for the deputy's position isn't likely to be as
hotly contested, but there needs to be a new one because Tories cannot occupy
both posts. Some like the look of Labour's Parmjit Dhanda, the youngest
contender this week, who is thought to have performed well under the spotlight.
Another MP who enjoyed the glitz of Monday's main vote tells us he has been
sounded out, but it seems that the idea wasn't welcomed. "I ran a mile," he
said. "Can't think of anything worse."

Gordon's sports minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, says enough is enough vis-a-vis
Britain's hapless tennis players. Once again they fell like ninepins. "If they
don't perform they don't get the money. I am getting tired of excuses," he tells
Radio 4's Today. Now that the government is cross, stand by for action. Expect a
review conducted by a cross-departmental team of civil servants working
alongside MPs on one of the select committees, say work and pensions, and a
panel of outside experts hand-picked by the Speaker. A public consultation led
by a former minister and facilitated via a nationwide roadshow featuring Susan
Boyle. String 'Em Up is the working title. A fact-finding trip to the red clay
courts of Chile to be co-ordinated by a new all-party Commons group for tennis,
squash and miscellaneous racquet sports. They will report back to Gordon, who
with respect to the new Speaker and the new protocols, will make an announcement
on Blue Peter in the autumn. Thereafter life will continue as before and the
Brits will mostly crash out in the early rounds next year. New balls.

Kind of hard to explain this ritual humiliation, especially when such efforts
are being made to expand the game at the grassroots. They are fighting to make
Wimbledon itself a more egalitarian experience. But heaven knows it's not easy.
Overheard this week, a steward in conversation with a peer of the realm. "We try
to keep these seats full," he says pointing to an empty row, "because it looks
better on television. But it has to be the right sort of people." A pause. "I
think your guests are the right sort of people." They exchange a smile, a nod.

For our sales pitch of the day we turn to the admirable Neal Lawson of the
centre-left campaign group Compass. Seems incongruous given the subject matter,
but you really should buy his new book, All Consuming. Here he tells you why.
"Ideas and books can change the world. I watched the way books like No Logo by
Naomi Klein and the State We're In by Will Hutton created a new zeitgeist. But
they didn't have an organisation behind them - to follow them up and see the
project through. Compass is that vehicle. So I would humbly ask you to buy a
copy if you can. The more people that do, the more it will be talked about and
read and the more influence it will have." Available at Amazon and an
independent seller, says Neal. "Buying the book won't make you happy, but
reading it might." Sales will make him happy. Happiness is what this is all
about.

Ohhhh myyy God!!!! Perhaps the only person who can save us from Esther Rantzen
in the House of Commons is Robert Kilroy-Silk. He has been trying to dissuade
her from entering the bearpit, she informs the good folk of the Heath and
Hampstead Society. "He told me, 'Don't do it. You will be humiliated and it will
be very painful.' He said that in general elections people vote with their
tribe," she added. And wasn't this sage advice from a man who has been linked to
as many diverse tribes as an 18th-century Christian missionary - Labour, Ukip,
Veritas. Listen to him Esther. He knows.

And there's another man who knows. He is the Democrat and former presidential
candidate John Kerry, and he shares with Men's Journal his tip for relaxing in
the air and limiting the potential for jet lag. "When I'm flying, I usually take
an Ambien (a sleeping pill) and listen to one of my own speeches on my iPod," he
says. "I'm out in seconds."

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday

National: Political briefing: Cameron's self-inflicted isolation from the big
guns could backfire

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 561 words


How much trouble is a Cameron-led government going to find itself in over its
break with fellow-EU conservatives at the Strasbourg parliament? Not a lot, say
all but the ultra-zealots on both sides of the Tories' European divide. "We can
still be friends with them and work together on many issues," members of the
Keep Calm Tendency insist.

There is as much Ruritanian as neo-Nazi about the breakaway grouping of 55 MEPs
(including 26 Tories) who have split with the 264-strong European Peoples Party
(EPP) to form the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR).

Are the Tories bothered? No. Ken Clarke has been assured there are no actual
fascists on board. In any case no group in Strasbourg and Brussels is wholly
pure. Gordon Brown inadvertently made the point at PMQs yesterday when he mocked
Cameron for abandoning Merkel, Sarkozy and (laughter) Berlusconi. But, one of
Cameron's new Czech allies was recently snapped at a Berlusconi party, naked and
excited.

The basis for Tory complacency over Europe is not completely misplaced. Cameron
used a pledge to quit the EPP to outflank more cautious David Davis and win the
leadership in 2005. He and William Hague (a more ardent Eurosceptic?) did not
storm out. They worked hard to create a viable group, though it may yet crumble.

But only zealots believe in the policy as strategy rather than tactical party
management - a Westminster calculation, not a European one. Outside Ukip (a
menacing 16.5% poll share against the Tories' 27.7% on June 4) Europe-hating
realists know they can't really leave the EU. Privately they are relieved that
Irish voters, reassured by last week's EU concessions, now look like they will
be saying yes to the Lisbon Treaty in a second referendum in October.

If Germany, Poland and the Czechs also ratify (they will) Cameron will have
escaped his UK referendum pledge: if he becomes prime minister it will be too
late. "There was a trade-off. In return for leaving the EPP he avoided commiting
to a post-ratification referendum," explain Eurosceptic allies. The new ECR
group may even attract new members, they predict.

Harsher critics say Cameron, Hague and pragmatic George Osborne have picked "a
low-grade, symbolic confrontation with the European parliament because no one
cares about it. They can play games there, it's safely under the radar." In
Brussels they can wheel-and-deal as usual with the big boys, France, Germany and
the commission. They can even vote with them.

"What Cameron would really like is for Europe to vanish. He'd rather not have to
think about it," says one party Eurosceptic official. But is that scenario
flawed? On global issues, from climate change and Iran to monetary policy and
defence, all European states must co-operate. The eurozone recently tolerated a
30% devaluation of sterling without retaliation. If its economies do not bounce
back (fingers crossed) it may not be so tolerant as unemployment rises.

Most importantly, Brussels is shaping up to impose tougher, Europe-wide
regulation of the banks; "Paris's revenge on London," as some fear in the City.
And who works on such issues with the EU Commission? Who haggles over
legislative details? Why, those obscure economic committees in Strasbourg where
big players in the EPP are guaranteed key seats, but breakaway factions are not.
Cameron's self-inflicted isolation may not look so smart then.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday

Feature - What happens now the Euro dust has settled?;
The struggle against the bogus EU must continue, or we'll see 200 years of
working-class gains erased, argues Steve McGiffen

BYLINE: Steve McGiffen

LENGTH: 1004 words


So the scintillating excitement of the European Parliament elections is but a
joyful memory. And Britain's ragbag of washed-up Labourites, pompous Lib Dems,
Tory backwoodsmen - some of them calling themselves "UKIP" - fraudsters, fakes
and fascists have joined the rest of them on the Brussels gravy train.

Overall, the election changed nothing, other than giving Europe's far right a
financial boost and allowing the appalling Daniel Cohn-Bendit to strut around
Brussels like a turkey that has never heard of Christmas.

The centre-right will continue to be bigger than the centre-left, but as there
is no real difference between the two, this is of little or no importance.

More significant is the reduction in the size of the already painfully small
United European Left (GUE/NGL) and the shift in its composition. The Germans
fared relatively well and the Italians, who once dominated the group's
predecessor formations, were wiped out.

In France, where I live, the left continues to be in disarray, and this was
reflected in lost seats.

There were two serious left lists, the Communist-based alliance known as the
Front de Gauche (FdG - Left Front) and the NPA (New Anti-Capitalist Party),
centred on its popular and media-savvy young leader Olivier Besancenot.

The failure of the two groupings to establish a common list was pitiful and no
doubt drove many potential left voters away or into the arms of the Greens, who
took 15 per cent.

The more than 11 per cent of the total vote picked up by the two lists should
have brought six seats, but the split reduced this to four, with the NPA just
failing to meet the threshold.

I am not one to suggest that left unity should always take priority over
differences of policy and principle.

The only real difference between the two groupings in this case, however, was
that the NPA has a completely negative attitude to working with the Socialist
Party - itself in a shambles, by the way - while the FdG would like nothing
better than to see a left government in power, with a few Communist ministers
and a few positive policies.

This is a familiar enough dilemma, but it is also one which was utterly
irrelevant to this election. Had there been a list alternating FdG and NPA
candidates, or had the NPA managed to get elected despite the split, all of the
resulting MEPs would have ended in the same political grouping and voting
against the neoliberal policies favoured by every other political tendency.

In Britain, of course, a plethora of left lists made us look like the irrelevant
fringe which we have spent three decades doing our best to become.

In my view, everyone should have rallied behind the No2EU lists, provided all
were allowed their say in drafting a manifesto acceptable to each tendency.

Electing a government is one thing. Electing a protest bloc to give a
parliamentary arm to resistance to the European Commission's fanatical
neoliberalism is quite another.

And the European Parliament elections were most certainly not about choosing a
government.

I have argued before that we should take European Parliament elections
seriously, forming broad left lists of candidates willing to go to Brussels and
Strasbourg and speak out for our class, in defence of our rights and liberties,
of our jobs and the social and welfare systems for which we and our ancestors
fought.

I have noted that those who continue to believe that the European Parliament is
nothing but a talking shop on a gravy train have not been paying attention.

First, because the EP has acquired numerous real powers since Maastricht.

And second, because if you want to witness a talking shop on a gravy train, you
certainly don't need to cross the channel.

Parliaments have been systematically deprived of their powers over three decades
of transfer of sovereign decision-making from national institutions under
various degrees of democratic control to supranational institutions - EU, IMF,
WTO and so on - under none whatsoever.

All that any MP or MEP can now provide is a voice of protest, a rallying point
for resistance.

The real EU government is housed within a short walk of the European Parliament
building in Brussels.

It consists of a council which represents the member states and meets behind
closed doors, and an unelected commission.

No-one has the right to know how ministers vote in the council or how
commissioners vote in their policy meetings, known as the "college."

The European Union's version of "democracy" would have been out of date by the
end of the 18th century, by which time it had been accepted that voters did
indeed have the right to know how their representatives were voting.

However, at least the council is made up of ministers from democratically
elected governments.

The European Commission, which has the exclusive power to propose new
legislation, is appointed by those same governments, but represents,
constitutionally, no-one but itself.

In reality, its most important influence is European corporate capital, in whose
interests the EU has been developed into a bureaucratic order whose various
layers of government are clearly designed not to offer the people a chance to be
involved in decision-making but to eliminate any such chance.

One way in which you can tell that the whole edifice of this European Union is
bogus is that nobody ever demanded it.

In pursuit of European integration and the elected assembly which goes with it,
nobody was ever cut down by dragoons in Manchester, shot by drunken gendarmes in
Brussels, took on a murderous racist establishment as was done in South Africa
and Mississippi, chained herself to railings or threw themself under the king's
horse.

Democracy entered from the left field of politics and can only be saved by the
left.

Unless we overcome our differences and organise an effective, united resistance
to neoliberalism on a national, European and global level, we will see the
political, social and economic gains of 200 years scrubbed away like
bloodstains.

- Steve McGiffen is editor of the EU-critical website www.spectre zine.org.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 24, 2009 Wednesday 6:51 AM GMT

Europe swings Right as depression deepens

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 850 words


The establisment Left had been crushed across most of Europe, just as it was in
the early 1930s.

We have seen the ultimate crisis of capitalism - what Marxist-historian Eric
Hobsbawm calls the "dramatic equivalent of the collapse of the Soviet Union" -
yet socialists have completely failed to reap any gain from the seeming
vindication of their views.

It is not clear why a chunk of the blue-collar working base has swung almost
overnight from Left to Right, but clearly we are seeing the delayed detonation
of two political time-bombs: rising unemployment and the growth of immigrant
enclaves that resist assimilation.

Note that Right-wing incumbents in France (Sarkozy) and Italy (Berlusconi),
survived the European elections unscathed.

Left-wing incumbents in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal,
Hungary, Poland, Denmark, and of course Britain were either slaughtered, or
badly mauled.

The Dutch Labour party that has dominated national politics for the last half
century fell behind the anti-immigrant movement of Geert Wilders (banned from
entering Britain). It serves them right for the staggeringly stupid decision to
force through the European Constitution (renamed Lisbon) after it had already
been rejected by their own voters by a fat margin in the 2005 referendum.

The Portuguese Socialists face Siberian exile after seeing a 18pc drop in their
vote. The slow drip-drip of debt-deflation for a boom-bust Club Med state,
trapped in the eurozone with an overvalued exchange rate (viz core Europe, and
the world), has suddenly turned into a torrent. The country is already in
deflation (-0.6pc in April). It has been suffering its own version of Japanese
perma-slump for half a decade.

Portugal's opposition is calling for an immediate vote of no censure, while the
Government clings to constitutional fig-leaves to hide its naked legitimacy. "O
Governo est na sua plenitude de funes," said the chief spokesman. You can guess
what that means. Not long for this world, surely.

In Germany and Austria, the Social Democrats suffered their worst defeatssince
World War Two. I don't say that with pleasure. A vibrant labour-SPD movement is
vital for German political stability. It was the peeling away of Socialist
support during the Bruning deflation of the Depression years - so like today's
Weber-Trichet deflation - that led to the catastrophic election of July 1932,
when the Nazis and Communists took half the Reichstag seats.

This will not happen again, thankfully, because there is no Bolshevik threat
luring business into a Faustian pact with Fascists. But the picture is not
benign either. Unemployment in Germany may reach 5m by the end of 2010,
according to the five 'wise men' , even if recovery comes on schedule.

But as readers know, I still fear that this depression is quietly deepening. The
savings rate is rocketing in the deficit states of the US, UK, Spain, et al, as
the "sinners" belatedly tighten their belts, but their fall in consumption is
not being matched by an offsetting rise among the surplus "saints" states,
China, Japan, Germany-Netherlands, which all points to an implosion in world
demand. Yes, the West is printing money.

But that is a harder to trick to pull off than Friedman and Bernanke ever
realized. And core Europe is not really printing anyway beyond its chump-change
dallying in the covered bond market.

In Ireland - now crucifixion laboratory for the EMU, and downgraded again today
to AA by S&P - the ruling Fianna Fail was reduced to three seats in the European
Parliament. It is the party's worst defeat since the creation of the Republic.
Premier Brian Cowen cannot be long for this world either.

As for Gordon Brown, I can only say that having derided UKIP as fringe losers,
his attempt to cling top office after UKIP trounced him is quite astonishing.

I find it odd that the press continue to talk about a leadership change as if
Labour could possible keep going for another year, with yet another unelected
prime minister, and with its authority reduced to tatters. This Parliament ought
to be dissolved immediately. An election ought to be called this week.

It is shocking that Westminster's inbred family still cannot see the writing on
the wall. If this sorry saga goes on much longer, we may have to conjure up some
sort of medieval impeachment process. (My colleague Phil Johnston says no such
mechanism exists. Pity)

So, we may lose three or four governments in Europe in coming days or weeks - or
even worse, they may survive. The drama is unfolding as I feared. Half way
through the depression, we are facing the exactly the sort of political
disintegration that occurs in times of profound economic rupture.

Remember, the dangerous phase in the Great Depression was Stage II, after
thecollapse of Austria's Credit-Anstalt in mid-1931 set off a disastrous
chain-reaction that Autumn (until then, most people thought they faced no more
than a bad recession, like today).

Don't count on the political fabric of Europe holding together if our green
shoots shrivel and die in the credit drought of the long hot rainless summer
that lies ahead.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blears case shows you can fool working class voters

SECTION: LETTERS; 22

LENGTH: 157  words


SO, Hazel Blears fought off an attempt to force her out as an MP ("Hazel Blears:
Showdown in bid to save her career", June 19).

Surely there's someone who'd be willing to stand against her?

If she's re-elected, it'll prove what I've always thought - that the average
Labour voter would elect a monkey if it wore a party rosette on its waistcoat.

You can almost hear the cry going up that Labour stands for the working class.
But it doesn't - Labour MPs stand for themselves, and themselves alone. What
experience of working class needs have Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Tony Blair and
most of the Labour front bench got? Absolutely none.

Few have any experience of work outside Parliament. Most are champagne
socialists, a fact that Labour voters are blind to.

The UK Independence Party and Liberal Democrats are good, but too small as
parties to make an impression, so it must be left to the Tories to bring about
recovery.

Peter Hyde, Driffield, E Yorks

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 22, 2009 Monday

Comment & Debate: The purity of pragmatism: The Conservatives would do well to
look to Dublin for a way to deal with the question of Europe

BYLINE: p.preston@guardian.co.uk Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 747 words


Look forward with relish to the first week of October: a masterpiece of
malignant timing. Up in Manchester, the Conservatives meet to confer and appear
like a natural party of government. Over in Dublin, thanks to the spoils brought
back from Brussels on Friday, the Irish vote once more on the Lisbon treaty they
rejected last year. Current opinion poll balance: 56% yes, 28% no. Scope for
turmoil in Cameron's backyard: 100%.

Did our would-be prime minister say that he'd hold a Lisbon referendum
regardless, as his Guardian article on 25 May clearly indicates? Or that he'd
only call such a vote if some other country - that is Ireland - hadn't ratified
it by the moment he crossed Downing Street's threshold? What does he mean, in
any case, by pledging "not to let the matter rest" (which sounds, among other
things, like a bad night in the Midland Hotel)? The questions will come thick,
fast and unavoidable; which automatically means that the Tories will start
tearing at their entrails again.

To be sure, Europe is a morass of confusing detail, an affront to direct
democracy in too many ways. And, of course, it often deserves the low turn-outs
and opinions it currently attracts. (Choose another commission run by Jose
Manuel Barroso - or one run by Jose Manuel Barroso?) You can write almost any
convenient story you like across such a cluttered landscape. But let's also be
clear that, when push comes to shove, when real decisions about real allegiances
have to be made, then Europe's 27 varieties know where their best interests lie
- with Croatia and Iceland gagging to make that 29.

The Irish, naturally enough, will be floridly pitied here as some kind of
gallant victims flattened by bullying bureaucrats. That particular Brit blarney
comes easy. But, in fact, in a roundabout way, they've played a good hand. If
they indeed wanted binding guarantees about tax rates, neutrality and a
continuing commissioner, they're getting them now. In short, in any normal
arena, negotiating tactics have got them a better deal. What's so pitiful about
that?

Perform a careful postmortem on last year's Irish rejection and you can see the
root trouble, sure enough: a plain victory for the don't knows and don't
understands, an easy opportunity to kick an unpopular government (as replicated
many times over in this year's European parliament elections). Now, though,
things are different. Now tough, post-crunch decisions have to be made - and
it's UK plc that looks off the pace.

How much longer do we have to go on putting up with Bill Cash and co foaming on
about federal plots (when they're not explaining some very odd domestic
expenses, that is)? Why does nobody say that Ukip - if you look at Farage's
farrago hard - is a panto out of season? Why on earth do we splutter on about
foreign menaces in editorial lines dictated from New York by an Australian OAP?
Loony tunes are all very well in their way, deluding ditties often encouraged by
national governments to pretend nothing has changed: but it has, inevitably, in
a greatly changed world.

"Banking regulation is most effectively enforced at European level in a
globalised world", says the Irish Times, calmly. "Climate change can no longer
be handled just by individual nation states when the EU adds so much value in
world negotiations. The co-ordination of foreign policy on Iran, Burma or the
Middle East will be improved . . ." Of course. Pure pragmatism is guiding the
Irish hand now, a serious response to serious events.

What can Cameron's Conservatives offer in contrast, as they don't let matters
rest? Perhaps a Europe where "every country" must hold a referendum on future
constitutional reforms, where "only elected representatives can make new law",
where national vetoes come flooding back in all but trading affairs, where
levels of tax and public spending are off-limits for Brussels, where all MEP and
commission expenses should be published on the net.

That, in case you've missed it, was the Libertas platform for the Euro
elections, one fought right across Europe by 600 candidates deploying euros 30m
or so along the way. Just one was elected. Declan Ganley, Libertas's millionaire
founder, leader and main man in Ireland's 2008 referendum vote, was
humiliatingly rejected even on his own home turf, a punctured balloon. Only Sinn
Fein battles on against Lisbon today as the Irish start to concentrate on facts,
not fulminating fictions. Maybe Manchester should take Dublin's hint.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AND DON'T FORGET TO BARCODE YOUR ZEBRA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 112 words


ZEBRAS will get a BARCODE to keep them safe from thieves as part of the latest
EU crackdown, it was revealed yesterday.

The African wild animals are already born with unique black-andwhite stripes.
But under the new rule, every foal will be implanted with a microchip.

Using supermarket-type scanners, its barcode can then be matched to a "passport"
num-beto see if the creature has been stolen.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "I wasn't even aware we had a problem with stolen
African wild zebras roaming the streets of our cities." Defra was yesterday
unable to say whether any zebras had recently been nicked but insisted the
scheme would "reduce fraud and control diseases".

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stripe gripe ... a zebra

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I hereby declare that I will not eat my horse or pony;
EXCLUSIVE SIGN EU RULE OR IT'S JAIL

BYLINE: VERONICA LORRAINE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 270 words


HORSE owners must sign a pledge not to eat their pets - or face up to two years
in jail, a barmy new EU rule says.

Brits will be saddled with the legislation even though it is aimed at
continentals who munch two million of the creatures every year.

Critics blasted the law yesterday. UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "I'd like to
be a fly on the wall when the Queen and Princess Anne are asked to sign a form
saying they're not going to eat their horses.

"Measures to stop the trade in horse flesh may be a good thing.

"But any common sense in Brussels is drowned by the sheer weight of ludicrous
suggestions."

The Horse Identification Regulations, to come into force next month, are partly
aimed at stopping harmful vets' drugs entering humans' diets.

All British horses will be treated as though they are headed for the dinner
plate unless the owner declares otherwise.

Anyone who refuses to sign will face prison or an unlimited fine.

Furious stable owner Kate Gillanders, of Kinross, Perthshire, said yes-terday"We
don't see our horses as cattle.

"The thought of them being eaten is utterly repulsive. Brussels is poking its
nose in where it should not be. The EU knows nothing about me and cares even
less.

"This nonsense is somebody else's obsession."

The crackdown is the brainchild of EU Agriculture Commissioner Mariann Fischer
Boel - who last year scrapped a rule banning curvy bananas.

A European Commission spokesman last night insisted the Government agreed to
every word in the directive.

He added: "If someone thinks we don't understand the British mentality then
neither does the UK Government."

v.lorraine@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 343 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 21, 2009, Sunday

JET-SET ANDY NEEDS HIS WINGS CLIPPING;
 "YOU SAY... " TELL US WHAT YOU THINK MAILBOX@PEOPLE.CO.UK: LETTER OF

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 586 words


I'M fed up with Prince Andrew using taxpayers' cash to fund his trips. wins £50,
the others £10

It cost us about £60,000 for him to be whisked to Azerbaijan on a private jet
when he could have taken business class flights.

I wouldn't mind if it was his own money. But squandering this amount is reckless
and an insult to everyone in this country who is having a hard time with their
finances.

Roger Ainsworth, Ellesmere Port, Wirral

SISTERS Linda Francis and Wendy Taylor, who have been foster mothers to more
than 1,500 needy and troubled youngsters, are the sort of people who should have
received an OBE or MBE in the honours list. Just imagine the love that these
dear ladies, whose story was told in The People, have given to all these
children.

Kerry Watson, Lordshill, Hants

NO wonder Labour is in such disarray when Lord Mandelson is happy to defend
Gordon Brown by putting down Cabinet members Alan Johnson and David Miliband.
Most of the country knows Gordon is well past his sell-by date. Sadly the
unelected Mandelson does not.

Colin Fenn, Southgate, north London

PETER Mandelson is right to lead a crusade to root out the rotten bankers who
made this recession. He should make them clean up their act and ensure that
toxic assets never again swamp the banking system. Oliver Healey Telford,
Shropshire

EAMONN Holmes warns that a new directory of mobile phone numbers could lead to
our details being used by crooks for fraud. He's right. We already hand over too
much private information over the internet and this new move will just increase
the risks of identity theft or worse. We must tighten the law to deter the cyber
thieves.

Kevin Rose, Peckham, south London

MY wife cannot sleep in a normal bed without pain. We applied for a £750
community care grant to buy an electronic bed to ease her discomfort. It was
refused with the excuse that the budget would not cover it.

Yet there seemed to be budget enough to cover politicians' blue movies and duck
houses. I have been a Labour supporter for 40 years but will vote UKIP in
future.

George Hall, Oldbury, West Midlands

CAN'T the Government do more to stop the spread of swine flu? We have seen
Britain's first death from the disease and cases seem to be cropping up all over
the place. They must pull out all the stops to ensure there is soon enough
vaccine for all of us. Michelle Britto Leigh-on-Sea, Essex

ANOTHER celebrity mum emerges with a slimline look just days after giving birth.
Tess Daly certainly looked fabulous in The People's pictures last week but
surely to lose weight and get your figure back so quickly cannot be all that
healthy. These things should be taken gradually. I wonder how Tess really feels
a couple of weeks after having her daughter. It must be a nightmare for famous
mums trying to live up to their celebrity image. Sylvia Monk, Saffron Walden,
Essex

WHAT a disgrace that sport's 46 governing bodies are refusing to help fund next
month's Special Olympics. Before they were handed £480million of taxpayers' cash
it should have been been made a condition that they agreed to chip in for this
event.

Maggie Barrow Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs

Parents everywhere will have been shocked to read of the case of Vanessa George,
the Plymouth nursery worker who now faces accusations of child abuse and porn.
But for those mothers and fathers who are caught up in the investigation the
anguish must be truly harrowing.

Rachel Rodgers, Leeds, West Yorks

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              13 of 343 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 21, 2009, Sunday

JET-SET ANDY NEEDS HIS WINGS CLIPPING;
 "YOU SAY... " TELL US WHAT YOU THINK MAILBOX@PEOPLE.CO.UK: LETTER OF

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 586 words


I'M fed up with Prince Andrew using taxpayers' cash to fund his trips. wins £50,
the others £10

It cost us about £60,000 for him to be whisked to Azerbaijan on a private jet
when he could have taken business class flights.

I wouldn't mind if it was his own money. But squandering this amount is reckless
and an insult to everyone in this country who is having a hard time with their
finances.

Roger Ainsworth, Ellesmere Port, Wirral

SISTERS Linda Francis and Wendy Taylor, who have been foster mothers to more
than 1,500 needy and troubled youngsters, are the sort of people who should have
received an OBE or MBE in the honours list. Just imagine the love that these
dear ladies, whose story was told in The People, have given to all these
children.

Kerry Watson, Lordshill, Hants

NO wonder Labour is in such disarray when Lord Mandelson is happy to defend
Gordon Brown by putting down Cabinet members Alan Johnson and David Miliband.
Most of the country knows Gordon is well past his sell-by date. Sadly the
unelected Mandelson does not.

Colin Fenn, Southgate, north London

PETER Mandelson is right to lead a crusade to root out the rotten bankers who
made this recession. He should make them clean up their act and ensure that
toxic assets never again swamp the banking system. Oliver Healey Telford,
Shropshire

EAMONN Holmes warns that a new directory of mobile phone numbers could lead to
our details being used by crooks for fraud. He's right. We already hand over too
much private information over the internet and this new move will just increase
the risks of identity theft or worse. We must tighten the law to deter the cyber
thieves.

Kevin Rose, Peckham, south London

MY wife cannot sleep in a normal bed without pain. We applied for a £750
community care grant to buy an electronic bed to ease her discomfort. It was
refused with the excuse that the budget would not cover it.

Yet there seemed to be budget enough to cover politicians' blue movies and duck
houses. I have been a Labour supporter for 40 years but will vote UKIP in
future.

George Hall, Oldbury, West Midlands

CAN'T the Government do more to stop the spread of swine flu? We have seen
Britain's first death from the disease and cases seem to be cropping up all over
the place. They must pull out all the stops to ensure there is soon enough
vaccine for all of us. Michelle Britto Leigh-on-Sea, Essex

ANOTHER celebrity mum emerges with a slimline look just days after giving birth.
Tess Daly certainly looked fabulous in The People's pictures last week but
surely to lose weight and get your figure back so quickly cannot be all that
healthy. These things should be taken gradually. I wonder how Tess really feels
a couple of weeks after having her daughter. It must be a nightmare for famous
mums trying to live up to their celebrity image. Sylvia Monk, Saffron Walden,
Essex

WHAT a disgrace that sport's 46 governing bodies are refusing to help fund next
month's Special Olympics. Before they were handed £480million of taxpayers' cash
it should have been been made a condition that they agreed to chip in for this
event.

Maggie Barrow Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs

Parents everywhere will have been shocked to read of the case of Vanessa George,
the Plymouth nursery worker who now faces accusations of child abuse and porn.
But for those mothers and fathers who are caught up in the investigation the
anguish must be truly harrowing.

Rachel Rodgers, Leeds, West Yorks

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              14 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 21, 2009

Timeto toe the party line -;
wherever that party may be

BYLINE: Sandi Toksvig

SECTION: SEVEN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 809  words


There is so much to celebrate today I am at a loss to know what the correct
candle and napkin combination should be for the table. It's the Summer Solstice,
also known as Litha, Alban Hefin, Sun Blessing, Gathering Day, Feill-Sheathain,
Whit Sunday, Whitsuntide, Vestalia, St John's Day, Ivan Kupala Day and my
absolute favourite, Thing-tide. Thing-tide sounds like the name those of us in
our middle years give to holidays whose name momentarily escapes us.

The good folk of Europe (and I say this without any wish to distress the UKIP
contingent who may want to party alone) have gathered together to celebrate
Midsummer's Eve for generations. Some people think of it as marking the arrival
of summer and the longest days. I prefer to see it as the midpoint between the
end of the Christmas sales and the full heat of the car boot season, but
nevertheless it is a traditional time to gather plants with miraculous healing
powers, light bonfires and generally find a reason to dance with bells on. Some
people also felt a need to protect themselves. It's allegedly that time of year
when witches are thought to be on their way to meetings with other evil powers.
This suggests a coven of women, who are at best plain, flying south to holiday
with Robert Mugabe.

Bonfires form a critical element in most of the celebrations. In Estonia, where
one can only assume a somewhat casual approach to health and safety, it is
thought that good luck can be achieved by lighting a bonfire and jumping over
it. This potential singeing of what most men hold dear is frankly nothing
compared to the cat-burning that was once wildly popular in France. Now, I am
not a fan of the cat but even I think this is taking a lesson in the perils of
being aloof a little too far. The Poles throw flowers into the sea, in Latvia
some run naked through the streets and in Portugal, where the locals know how to
have a good time, they eat cabbage and potato soup and hit each other over the
head with garlic. In my own country of Denmark it's called Sankt Hans aften. We
celebrate by burning straw witches, believing this will send all the evil where
it belongs, which, and this could perhaps do with a post-war rethink, is a
mountain in Germany.

The fact is we could all do with something to celebrate. Things are in a parlous
state so having any excuse to party is welcome. Let's be honest, 'Knees up
Gordon Brown' hardly seems to be the cry of the day. There are, of course, those
who disapprove of the pagan element so they may prefer to mark Saint Alban's
day. St Alban died about now in either 209, 251 or 304, which makes his death
date sound like a list of alternate bus routes. He was the first of the English
martyrs and there are those who think he would make a better patron saint for
England than St George who was, after all, Palestinian.

Pictures of St Alban always show him carrying his head between his hands, and
who among us has not felt like that the morning after? His beheading by the
Romans was quite the drama. At the moment that the blow was dealt it is said
that the executioner's eyes fell out of his head, which was probably a clearer
lesson to all than anything you will ever hear on Thought for the Day. Curiously
the saint's shoulder blade is in St Albans Cathedral while his thigh bone is
somewhere in Hampshire. If anyone knows where the rest of him is I think we
could have the makings of a fine song.

On that subject, today is also Fête de la Musique or World Music Day. Knowing
this, I was pleased to read that it was today in 1862 that there was an
explosion at a percussion factory in Birmingham. I had a wonderful image of a
loud bang followed by a riff on a kettle drum, several notes on a xylophone and
a final beat on a triangle. Sadly, it turns out that percussion factories made
gunpowder and that the explosion was a salutary lesson in giving planning
permission to arms manufacturers in city centres.

The French are very keen on World Music Day and eagerly encourage both
professional and amateur musicians to annoy anyone within earshot with their
Peruvian pan pipe play and the like. For this purpose they use the slogan Faites
de la musique, which is a rather cunning homophone of Fête de la Musique. I am a
fan of the homophone. It comes from the Greek for 'same sound' and involves the
joyous ability to play with words. Thus you can be bored at a board meeting,
heal your heel and stare at the stairs. Freud believed we sometimes even dream
in these primitive puns, so to celebrate this Midsummer Night's Dream of a day,
here is a quick joke:

A women goes to a therapist. 'I keep having these alternating recurring dreams.
First I'm a tepee, then I'm a wigwam, then I'm a tepee, then I'm a wigwam. It's
driving me crazy. What's wrong with me?'

The therapist nods, 'It's very simple. You're two tents.'

Happy summer solstice. Try to relax.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 21, 2009

Cameron bid to head off split over EU

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 485  words


DAVID CAMERON, the Conservative leader, has slapped down Kenneth Clarke, a
senior member of his shadow cabinet, for suggesting that the Tories will not
hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

Mr Cameron has reassured worried MPs in private that Mr Clarke has "not changed
a word'' of Tory policy on the European Union treaty, after the shadow business
secretary said renegotiation might not be possible.

The Tory leader's move to disown Mr Clarke's comments confirms that there is a
serious shadow cabinet split on Europe, with the leadership firmly backing a
referendum and Mr Clarke arguing against it.

Mr Cameron and William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, have publicly
pledged that even if the Treaty is ratified by all EU member states before they
come to power the Conservatives "will not let matters rest''.

But in an interview with BBC One's The Politics Show, broadcast last week, Mr
Clarke, the party's most prominent supporter of Europe, suggested that "not
letting matters rest'' simply meant holding discussions with EU partners as to
how the Treaty would work.

He said: "If the Irish referendum [expected in October] endorses the treaty, and
ratification comes into effect, then our settled policy is quite clear that the
treaty will not be reopened.

"But it has also been said by David Cameron, and he means it, that it will not
rest there, and he will want to start discussions on divisions of competence
between national states and the centre of the EU.''

Labour claimed Tory policy was in disarray in the wake of the comments, while
the UK Independence Party (Ukip) claimed Mr Clarke had "let the cat out of the
bag'' by revealing that the Tories had no intention of holding a referendum.
Bill Cash, the Tory MP, demanded to know on whose authority Mr Clarke was
speaking.

The Sunday Telegraph understands that Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the shadow
chancellor, have since moved to reassure MPs in private that Mr Clarke did not
signal a change in policy.

One MP said: "I was assured that Ken Clarke has not changed a word of the
policy. The policy is made by David Cameron and George Osborne who are strongly
Eurosceptic and want less power in Brussels. They are against the Lisbon Treaty
and are going to do everything they can to stop it and their down payment on
that is setting up a new grouping in Europe that wants less power in Brussels.
What more proof do you want?''

Writing in this newspaper today, Daniel Hannan, a Conservative MEP, says: "The
Conservative leader has promised a referendum on Lisbon and he means it. He has
even instructed his lawyers to draw up the Bill in advance so that he could
introduce it on his first day in office.''

Tory MPs argue that the treaty would erode national sovereignty. It has been
ratified in most EU countries, including Britain, by parliamentary vote, but was
rejected by the Irish. They are now expected to hold a second vote in October.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BNP shock served up;
DAY & NIGHT

BYLINE: EDITED BY KATHRYN SPENCER WITH LIZZIE CATT, CLAUDIA GOULDER AND JACK
TEAGUE

SECTION: COLUMNS; 53

LENGTH: 172  words


HE MAY have been forced to "withdraw" from a Buckingham Palace garden party but
leader of the British National Party Nick Griffin has not given up all his
summer social engagments.

According to our mole at London's swanky Hurlingham Club, Griffin put noses out
of joint at the lawn tennis club on Thursday during the annual Fortis Classic
exhibition match.

As a guest of former player Buster Mottram, he had no trouble getting in to the
upmarket event.

An onlooker said he seemed "oblivious to the titters of disapproval" as he
quaffed champagne with friends around the grass court.

"Griffin looked more like a city banker than a regular Hurlingham guest, " said
our girl in tennis whites.

"Faces were pulled but no one troubled him directly. They didn't want to cause a
scene."

Mottram, 54, an open supporter of the BNP, is said to have strengthened his
links with Griffin, who now has a seat in the European Parliament.

Last year Mottram was expelled from the UK Independence Party after attempting
to broker an electoral pact with the BNP.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BNP BUDDIES: Buster Mottram and Nick Griffin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Is the writing on the wall for the Government's ID card scheme?

BYLINE: BEN CHU

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1217 words


Why are we asking this now?

The Government had been due to award a key contract as part of its grand
biometric ID card scheme this autumn. Three companies - Thales, Fujitsu and IBM
- were bidding for the right to develop the cards' design and handle their
production. But this week the Home Office admitted a decision might not be made
until the second half of 2010. This is the second delay to have hit the
Government's ID card scheme. Under the original plans, the widespread roll-out
of the cards would have taken place next year. Now it is not due until 2012.

Why the latest delay?

The Home Office argues that commercial and technical considerations are
responsible. But it has been noted that the decision comes at a time when the
future of the scheme has never looked more precarious. This week the shadow Home
Secretary, Chris Grayling wrote to companies who might be involved in producing
the cards to warn them that the scheme would be cancelled if the Conservatives
win power at the next election; something the opinion polls suggest is
increasingly likely.

Why are the Tories opposed to the scheme?

The Tories and the Liberal Democrats have long maintained that the introduction
of ID cards would undermine traditional civil liberties. The Tory leader, David
Cameron attacked the scheme as "unBritish" this week. The Liberal Democrat home
affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, has called the cards a "laminated poll tax".

The smaller parties, from the SNP and Plaid Cymru, to the Green Party and UKIP,
are also opposed. The Government claims the scheme would be useful in curbing
illegal immigration, thwarting organised crime, and would make it easier for
people to access public services. Opponents argue that it would be ineffective,
intrusive and create new opportunities for fraudsters.

Are those the only objections?

Far from it. The cost of the scheme is another major reason why the scheme
attracts opposition. The Government says the cost of producing biometric ID
cards and passports over the next 10 years will be £4.8bn. At a time when all
parties are looking for ways to reduce public spending, cancelling the scheme is
seen as a relatively pain-free way of saving money.

The Home Office argues that 70 per cent of the £4.8bn would be spent on
biometric passports, limiting the saving from scrapping the cards to around
£1.2bn. But this ignores the fact that this Government has an unfortunate habit
of underestimating the cost of large projects, particularly those involving
computer databases. Dr Edgar Whitley of the London School of Economics estimates
that the true cost of the scheme will end up between £10bn and £20bn. If that is
closer to the truth, the potential savings begin to look rather more
substantial.

Haven't some contracts already been signed?

Yes. Four contracts have been concluded. Thales is running a pilot scheme. CSC
is developing a passport and ID card application system. IBM has a contract to
build a database to store fingerprint and facial biometrics. And De La Rue has a
contract to produce biometric passports. The former Home Secretary, Jacqui
Smith, revealed in March that it would cost £40m for the Government to extricate
itself from these contracts.

But much of the technology being developed under these agreements would be
needed to develop biometric passports, which the Conservatives support. The key
contract with the private sector would be the one to develop and produce the new
cards themselves. That is why this latest delay is significant.

Is it wise for the Tories to write to companies threatening to overturn signed
contracts?

The Tories say such drastic measures are needed to prevent the Government
locking a future government into the scheme. But not everyone is impressed by
this argument. Some point out that companies such as Thales are already fully
aware that public procurement contracts, especially ones as controversial as ID
cards, are at risk of being revisited and that they insert compensation clauses
with this risk in mind. This makes the Conservative warnings unnecessary. It is
suggested that the opposition would be better off concentrating its criticism on
the Government, rather than seeking to put pressure on private firms.

What is the timetable for introducing ID cards?

Some 30,000 cards have already been issued to non-EU nationals living in
Britain. Later this year, they will be given to workers at London City and
Manchester airports. And this autumn British citizens living in Manchester will
be given the chance to participate in a trial scheme.

From 2011/2012 the Identity and Passport Service plans to issue "significant
volumes" of ID cards to people when they apply for a British passport, although
they will be able to opt out of having a card.

This staged approach is deliberate. The Government hopes that support for the
cards will grow when people witness how they can make their life easier. The
Government says that if it wins the next general election it will give MPs a
free vote on whether to make the cards compulsory for all UK citizens over the
age of 16.

What is the view of the public at the moment on ID cards?

Despite the deep concerns of civil libertarians, most people have, in the past,
been reasonably well-disposed to the idea of a national ID card scheme. But that
has begun to change as the costs have come into focus, particularly the fact
that everyone will be required to pay a £30 fee to obtain one.

Over the past five years the NoID pressure group has commissioned regular polls
to gauge public support for the Government's proposals. Normally a poll from a
pressure group would need to be treated with scepticism. But NoID has asked the
same unloaded question on each occasion. It has found that support for the cards
has fallen from 55 per cent in June 2005 to 48 per cent in December 2009.

Interestingly, the plans to issue ID cards to pilots and other airport workers -
the first British citizens to be forced to hold the cards - are meeting growing
resistance.

Is the Government about to perform a U-turn?

There are rumours in Westminster that support in the Cabinet for ID cards is
receding. And there were reports at the weekend that the new Home Secretary,
Alan Johnson, has ordered a review of the policy.

But Mr Johnson also described ID cards this week as a "manifesto commitment".
And while there might be grumblings about the wisdom of ploughing on with the
scheme in the Cabinet, it would be a considerable humiliation for the Government
to scrap a policy that it has doggedly clung to for some four years.

So ID cards might not be officially binned, but do not be surprised if ministers
decide to kick the scheme still further into the long grass before the next
general election.

b.chu@independent.co.uk

Will ID cards ever see the light of day?

Yes...

* The new Home Secretary, Alan Johnson, has reaffirmed the scheme as a
"manifesto commitment"

* It would be expensive to break the contracts that have already been signed

* ID cards are already a reality and they will become increasingly accepted in
the years ahead

No...

* The Tories have promised to scrap the scheme and they are likely to win the
next general election

* ID cards are an expensive scheme that the country simply cannot afford with
the public finances in their present state

* The public mood is shifting against the scheme

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Widdecombe would win my vote

BYLINE: Johann Hari

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1029 words


I am about to say something I thought I would never say. My tongue sticks to the
roof of my mouth; my stomach somersaults. Okay. Deep breath. Here goes. Vote for
Ann Widdecombe.

When Ann Widdecombe first warbled into British public life at the end of the
Major years, she seemed like a mutant symbol of all that had gone wrong in this
country. As Home Office minister, she defended the chaining of female prisoners
even as they went into labour, claiming they would otherwise waddle to freedom
as their waters broke. She was dubbed "Doris Karloff", the purest face of Tory
cruelty.

Widdecombe's politics are the polar opposite of mine: she believes the state
should keep out of the economy but ram into people's private lives. Her
fundamentalist Roman Catholicism - chosen because she thought the Church of
England was insufficiently Old Testament - makes her toxically anti-feminist and
anti-gay. When broadcasters want somebody to defend the nastier shores of social
conservatism, they point their cameras her way.

So why do I think she is the best candidate to be Speaker of the House of
Commons and custodian of our democracy today?

Widdecombe is standing down as an MP at the next election - which has to happen
in the next 10 months - so she is running to be a short term Speaker with a very
specific remit.

After Expensageddon, the House of Commons is viewed with only marginally more
affection than a paedophile ring - and the results at the next election could be
dangerous. Some 42 per cent of the electorate say they are considering a protest
vote against all the main parties next time. Expect foul parties like the United
Kingdom Independence Party (whose leader, Nigel Farage, calls Enoch Powell "my
hero") and the British National Party to do well. Only the excellent Green Party
will be the deserving beneficiaries of this rage, probably taking its first
parliamentary seat in Brighton Pavilion.

Anything we can do now to ensure the MPs who ripped us off have been punished,
and a decent new system of payment has been built over the wreckage, will blunt
that drift to the vile fringe. To get there, we need a high profile, no-bullshit
Speaker, calling out the crooks and explaining to the public how a defensible
system should work.

Widdecombe is in the best position to do that. She has shown that - for all her
often nasty policies - she has a form of real integrity. It's not just that she
has stood against her party on important occasions, like when she opposed the
fox-hunting David Cameron and his chums to say the ritualised torture of animals
should be banned. No: it's that when she saw a form of corruption at the heart
of her party, she stood boldly against it - and risked wrecking her own career.

When she was No.2 to Michael Howard at the Home Office, Widdecombe saw her boss
try to save his own hide by destroying the career of an innocent civil servant.
He was trying to escape calls for his resignation by claiming it wasn't his
fault the prisons were in chaos - it was the fault of Derek Lewis, the head of
the Prison Service. (This is what Jeremy Paxman famously asked Howard about 14
times.) As part of this saga, he made a number of claims that turned out to be
false, shifting the blame unfairly on to Lewis.

The careerist path for Widdecombe was plain: keep your head down and look the
other way. She didn't. She spoke out. When Howard was poised to become leader of
her party in 1997, she warned that there was "something of the night" about him.
Many people predicted her career had collapsed at that moment in a death-embrace
with How-ard, but knew she had done the right thing, and that's what mattered to
her.

Since driving a stake through Howard's heart, she has developed a broad
reputation among the public - even those of us who think most of her beliefs are
toxic - for being honest and straightforward. I am sure she would sincerely
expose the corruption in the House, and use her 10 months to build an
alternative way of working that would build public support again.

The Speaker doesn't have much formal power, but she has - to borrow Theodore
Roosevelt's phrase about the US President - an enormous bully pulpit to name the
bad and demand the good. With the public behind her - she's our clear favourite
in every poll - and the hourglass running down every day on her remit,
Widdecombe could play a crucial role in forcing through reform.

Too many of the other candidates seem determined to repeat Michael Martin's core
mistake. He saw himself as the shop steward for backbench MPs, defending their
collective interests against all comers, most notoriously by using fat sums of
public cash to try to block the expenses details from coming out. But the
Speaker needs to be the champion of the democratic process against all comers.

By the way, although Martin got this badly wrong, nothing justifies the torrent
of snobbery directed towards him. He was dubbed "Gorbals Mick" by a few vile
newspaper sketch-writers. The implications were plain: a Speaker from the
Gorbals! A former manual labourer! How vulgar! How base! We all know Speakers
should be from the Home Counties and speak in Received Pronunciation, don't we?

There are some other good candidates. The Labour MP Parmjit Dhanda has been
seriously impressive, demanding that the power to set debates is weaned more
away from the executive and the whips, and restored to the public. He has
suggested taking debates out to town halls across Britain, and allowing a slice
of the House of Commons debating agenda to be set by online votes of the public
naming the issues they want to see discussed. If Twitter can rock the Iranian
Ayatollahs and Facebook can force the Chinese Communist Party to release a rape
victim for fighting back against one of its officials, surely the internet can
permeate the stale air of the House of Commons?

Similarly, John Bercow has had some good suggestions. But Dhanda and Bercow will
still be there in 10 months' time, when Widdecombe would stand down. Between now
and then, there is an oil-slick of deep cynicism over Westminster - and the tiny
determined arms of Doris Karloff are best placed to begin scrubbing it clean.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

CRISTIANO RONALDO'S POUNDS 80M TRANSFER

BYLINE: JON CRUDDAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 56 words


CRISTIANO Ronaldo's pounds 80m transfer to Real Madrid must make him the most
expensive right-winger in Europe - a title once held by UKIP leader Nigel Farage
MEP, who was caught boasting that he'd trousered over pounds 2million in
expenses - on top of his salary.

Still, he's been reelected so he's got time to reclaim the dubious honour.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Brits must beat Europe

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 426 words


£ 50 LETTER

NOW is the time for David Cameron to prove he is a prime minister in waiting.

He must sack Ken Clarke, right, after his comments on the EU. We still expect a
referendum. Otherwise, he will turn out as bad as the trash who have been
running this country for far too long.

ALEX BARRASS Knottingley, West Yorks

IS David Cameron going to drive people to the BNP by not giving the country a
referendum on the EU? It seems it's not only Labour that are dodgy.

Our politicians are so out of touch with the electorate and are going to drag
this country into the gutter. Forget about Europe and think about England for a
change.

MICK MILLS Lancing, W Sussex

WHO is in charge of the Tories - Cameron or Clarke? They have effectively told
us

NOT to vote for them, because I think more than half the country do not want to
be run by an unelected bunch of fiddling cronies for the rest of our lives.

KEN KITE Exeter, Devon

KEN CLARKE has no right to tell us that Europe is in no mood for tedious debates
regarding the Lisbon Treaty. The British public have a democratic right to be
given a vote, as promised by this corrupt, useless Labour Government.

David Cameron better deliver on his commitment to give the public a vote or the
BNP and UKIP will in time represent the electorate.

JOHN ZARCZYNSKI Honiton, Devon

SO Clarke has let the cat out of the bag. Well done him. This Government and
Opposition should remember that this country does not belong to them to sell
off. The first one to learn this will walk the next election.

RAY TUCKER Sheerness, Kent

THE Iraq inquiry being held in private opens the door to the outcome being fixed
in favour of the Government. Should we be surprised?

BRIAN GARRETT Hailsham, East Sussex

I WAS amazed to read that the Government intend to cut £3billion from the
defence budget. Our troops are still short of vital war supplies. How can they
be expected to fight the enemy with even less equipment?

FRED PRICE Nottingham

WHAT is the difference between a House of Lords comprising unelected hereditary
peers and a House of the Prime Minister's unelected old pals?

MARILYN WARBURTON Verwood, Dorset

IT'S good to see Labour supporters enjoying a lifestyle they could dream of.
Unfortunately, it's the Blairs and the Kinnocks who are rolling in money. The
rest of us can whistle.

TERENCE ROBINSON Burnley, Lancs

WELL done to Madonna on the approval of her adoption of Mercy. But would it not
have been kinder for Madonna to sponsor Mercy's family instead, enabling them to
nurture Mercy away from the spotlight of fame?

DEBBIE RILEY Ferrers, Northants

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday

PROFILE;
Successful businessman partial to fact-finding trips

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 568  words


Brian Binley, the Northampton South MP, with the television gardener Charlie
Dimmock

BRIAN BINLEY TOLD HIS LOCAL PAPER ON MAY 28:

"I will not allow this debate to turn me into a criminal, and I urge anyone who
wants to do so to come along to the meeting and bring it up with me personally.

"I am absolutely sick and tired of this problem being thrown about everywhere,
and I want to be able to move on to more important matters such as getting rid
of this rotten Government.

"Anyone who wants to tar us all with the same brush should be ashamed of
themselves. I do believe a very small number of MPs have behaved criminally, but
there are some good and honest MPs who should be allowed to get on with their
jobs.''

BRIAN BINLEY ON HIS OWN WEBSITE, MAY 14:

"It is not for me to comment on other peoples' [sic] actions but we should all
know the difference between right and wrong and maybe people didn't apply that
rule as rigorously as they should.

"But the other concern is the potential undermining of our democratic processes.

"I would hope this is not one of the objectives of a free press which, as
Kipling wrote for Baldwin, sometimes assumes 'the prerogative of the harlot
throughout the ages - power without responsibility'.''

Brian Binley's Pimlico flat (left) and his constituency home

UNLIKE many politicians, Brian Binley had a successful career as a businessman
before being elected to Parliament in 2005 at the age of 63.

Mr Binley, who is a freemason, set up BCC Marketing in 1989. He and his wife own
40 per cent of the company, which builds databases for telemarketing companies,
and one of his two sons, James, also works for it. The company now employs about
100 people and turns over approximately  pounds 1.4 million a year.

Since becoming an MP, Mr Binley has been noted for his fact-finding missions
abroad. In the past four years, he has visited India, Sri Lanka and Israel on
foreign trips, as well as Washington and New York.

Last autumn, he spent just over a week in the Maldives with the all-party
British-Maldives Parliamentary Group and in February he spent another week
visiting the Falkland Islands.

On his return to Britain, Mr Binley received several emails from Argentinians
calling him a "pirate'' and a "fascist''. While he was

in India, his identity was hijacked and thieves tried to steal  pounds 9,000
from his bank account and divert his parliamentary mail.

As well as setting up BCC Marketing, Mr Binley also co-founded Beechwood House
Publishing Company, which produced medical directories, in 1993. This company
was sold to Wilmington Publishing Group in 2000.

Due to his business experience, Mr Binley sits on the business, enterprise and
regulatory reform select committee and he was asked to chair the Conservative
parliamentary enterprise group in 2006 by the then shadow business secretary,
Alan Duncan.

Mr Binley is a member of Cornerstone, a Right-wing, eurosceptic group within the
Conservative Party. After the recent European elections, Mr Binley wrote on a
blog on the group's website saying he had "some sympathy'' with Conservative
Party members who voted for Ukip.

"If [the Conservative Party has] got any sense at all, it should recognise that
occasionally good Tories, for their own good reasons, will vote in a way the
party doesn't like,'' wrote Mr Binley. "Tough! The party better get used to it
or create a policy which those good Tories can support.''

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Maybe popular protest will stop UK being lost to EU

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 114  words


LABOUR was trounced in the local elections and beaten hollow in the European
poll, yet still refuses to acknowledge that we, the people, want the party out
of office - just as we want the UK out of the EU.

Yes, we want to trade with our European neighbours but now Lord Mandelson has
the audacity to say we must join the euro to do even that. And his boss, Gordon
Brown, would have us believe that they will listen to what the rest of us are
saying.

Will we have to take to the streets in our millions to stop our nation being
completely lost to Europe? When there is an election, if the Conservatives don't
listen, maybe UKIP will increase its vote yet again.

John Alford, Farnborough, Hants

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Mandy has poll proof that we don't want euro;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 161  words


WHAT part of the word 'no' does our esteemed Business Secretary fail to
understand ("Mandelson: we must join the euro", June 13)? Look at how Labour was
beaten into third place in the recent European election by the UK Independence
Party. Does he need further proof?

We do not want the euro or closer political ties with the rest of Europe - and
we certainly do not want unelected ministers like Peter Mandelson telling us
what we want.

Without a referendum, what right has he to make statements on our behalf on
issues of such importance?

Sacked twice from Tony Blair's Cabinet, his personal track record does not stand
close scrutiny, and if he pushes forward any plan to make us adopt the euro, he
will be out of office for a third time.

Perhaps only an election will prove to Mandelson that we want change. Our
continued EU membership and adopting the euro must be supported by a popular
mandate, and this government has neither.

John Allen, Winterton-on-Sea, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRO-EUROPE: But Lord Mandelson lacks mandate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday

Front: The verdict: Majority of voters want voting reform - ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 414 words


Reformers could gain enough support to win a referendum on changing Britain's
voting system, according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today. It shows that
support for all three main parties has suffered lasting damage from the expenses
scandal, amid distrust of the political system, and more than half of voters
back change.

Overall, 52% support electoral reform, while 43% want to keep the first past the
post system. A majority of Labour supporters - 51% - and Liberal Democrats - 67%
- want a new voting system, although the poll did not ask them to pick a
preferred model. Among Conservatives, opponents of change retain a narrow lead.

Today's poll, which follows this month's implosion of Labour support in the
local and European elections, offers Gordon Brown hope. While the Conservative
lead has remained steady in recent months, at around 10-12 points, it is down
from the mid-40s level the Tories were typically polling before the expenses
scandal.

Meanwhile, Labour has suffered little fallout from cabinet resignations and
calls to remove Brown. At 27%, support is down one point on last month, the
lowest Guardian/ICM score since June last year. But it is five points higher
than a more recent ICM poll carried out for another newspaper.

The Conservatives will be unimpressed by their 39% - unchanged since last
month's Guardian/ICM poll and down one on the more recent research. It is at the
margins of the score needed to win a Commons majority.

The Liberal Democrats, on 18%, are down two points from last month's
Guardian/ICM poll and down seven from their unusually high level of support in
the most recent ICM poll.

Collective backing for parties other than the main three is 15% - almost double
the 8% in March. Ukip is on 6%, and the Greens on 4%.

Labour is also well behind the Conservatives on two of the defining issues
likely to shape the general election.

Brown lags 22 points behind David Cameron as best prime minister. While 48% cite
Cameron as best, only 22% put the prime minister ahead.

The Tories have also pulled ahead as the party with the best economic team.
Cameron and George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, lead Brown and Alistair
Darling by 16 points: 47% to 31%. That lead is up 14 points since January.

* ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,006 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
12-14 June. Interviews were conducted across the UK and results have been
weighted to reflect the profile of all adults. Percentages may not add to 100
because of rounding

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday

Feature - Here's a war that is worth waging;
Unless we take back control from these corrupt media moguls, ignorance is going
to reign supreme in Britain

BYLINE: Chris T-T

LENGTH: 829 words


Capitalism almost collapses, causing untold hurt to millions and leaving the
government to clumsily pick up the pieces with our money.

The global fraud of big business is exposed and in response, voters swing to the
right whenever we get near a ballot-box.

Hello?

Sadly, there's a simple yet heartbreaking explanation for the self-defeating,
illogical behaviour by the good people of Europe - the media. And it's getting
dangerous.

I know it's a liberal comedy staple to attack the Daily Mail and its ilk, giving
it almost the sense of a soft target.

But I think we need to get seriously, aggressively and directly on their arses,
right now.

It is becoming crystal clear that the relationship between these tabloids'
school of morally bankrupt, misinforming, divide-and-rule press and our wider
society is not fit for purpose and does little public good.

Let alone their bullying hold over other important institutions such as
government, law and the "better" media such as the BBC.

Wracked with utterly ludicrous "compliance" issues all around, the situation is
having a significant negative effect on Britain's state of soul.

Hilariously, amid the carnage of Labour's most desperate ever Cabinet reshuffle,
with ministers jumping ashore left, right and centre, Gordon Brown has hired
comedy television bogeyman and all-round twit Alan Sugar as an enterprise tsar
and announced that the man will get a peerage.

How can news services within the BBC possibly respond objectively to this
idiocy, when he is so deeply embedded in the organisation like a successful,
high-profile veruca?

How can they speak the truth about the inherent myth within the appointment,
when they themselves built that myth in the first place, as the kingsize bed for
an entertainment show that fetishises a semi-fictional version of him?

The man's publicly expressed concept of modern business is pure comedy, having
absolutely nothing in common with even shallow new Labour lipservice to
community and social responsibilities.

It shouldn't even need to be said, because he's just the guy from a Brentford
high-rise choosing between a bunch of venal freaks on a reality show.

That is, until Brown's fat-headed policy wonks misread the British peoples'
interest in the show on such fundamental levels that they actually recruited the
old goat.

But even thinking along such lowbrow lines, any member of the Dragons' Den team,
for example, would've been a weightier, more logical and constructive pick for
an enterprise tsar.

They deal with real, varied enterprise and innovation. They offer real
entrepreneurial mentorship. And at least their pumped-up acumen has occasional
social conscience and Evan Davies to offset the nut-jobs.

Beyond individual examples, beyond even the Telegraph's strategic triumph on
MPs' expenses, the whole media has become far too politically and socially
powerful, at the same time that it has got economically desperate.

In last week's European elections, only one British party scored a significant
increase in the percentage of people voting for it - the Green Party.

This has been barely touched upon in domestic coverage, where the lion's share
of political debate time was spent on self-indulgent faux hand-wringing over the
supposed "rise" of the BNP.

Never mind that the racists hardly increased their vote share at all. Nor did
UKIP for that matter. Nobody got even 2 per cent more support, except for the
Greens. Everyone stayed approximately the same, apart from poor old Labour and
its almost 10 per cent collapse in support.

It's easy to read widely published statistics. However, if your ears are ringing
from a thousand correspondents telling a different story, and you've been
overwhelmingly dis-incentivised to untangle anything for yourself, how are you
supposed to filter that out?

I had a conversation today about sex education and discovered that the primary
reason decent programmes can't be implemented in Britain - despite them having
proven to be massively successful at reducing young pregnancy in, say,
Scandinavia - is the fear of the immoral majority, directed and misinformed by
these newspapers and media sources.

This is yet another compliance-style imposition on real lives, disguised as
journalism, information sharing or free speech.

Right, so the damage that these outlets are doing is immeasurable and edges
towards permanence, even as they simultaneously look more and more precarious.

I seriously propose an all-out assault on the owners of these corporations,
after careful strategic planning, using every trick in the current non-violent
direct action book.

Anything short of violence is acceptable in this.

I declare war, because it is a war for the very soul of this great country.

We don't need small-time protest and kneejerk swearing or debate. Those days are
gone.

We need every tool in the social media, underground resistance and cultural
confrontation toolkit to literally ruin these cruel bastards and take down their
empires - before it's too late.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 16, 2009 Tuesday 12:06 AM GMT

Here's an inconvenient truth: the Islamisation of Europe

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1551 words


For years the world ignored climate change. As the evidence for man-made
environmental disaster built up, the majority of people took part in a passive
conspiracy of silence, like there was a nutter in the carriage and no one wanted
to acknowledge the fact.

Many did so out of ignorance, others out of bigotry against environmentalists
who, they thought, wanted us all to live in huts, or worshipped the earth, or at
the very least didn't use deodorant. Still others purposefully ignored it
because they had a vested economic interest in doing so. Some simply couldn't
believe something so awful could happen, some believed it but were fearful of
the terrible consequences of acting - economic unrest, war, perhaps mass murder.
Still others believed it but thought it was inevitable and so pointless worrying
about.

I interviewed a storm chaser back in 2004 for Nuts magazine. I just wanted tales
of derring-do, but his tone was so downbeat I wanted to chop my own head off. He
was in despair at humanity's refusal to face this disaster that engulfed us all.



"I hate to say it, I really do, but it will take a catastrophe on American soil,
and many dead, before something happens". I think they took that bit out of the
interview - people buy Nuts to think about sex, not death.

But the following summer Hurricane Katrina did happen, and, very quickly,
man-made climate change become almost universally accepted. In fact no one talks
about anything else.

Climate change denial was, and still is, an overwhelmingly conservative vice,
and it's a historical black mark against the Right (and, ahem, we have a few).
But there is a corresponding liberal conspiracy over an issue that is as
important to our society, if not to our planet.

Ten or even five years ago few people were prepared to say in public that,
whatever the media consensus, mass immigration didn't in fact benefit our
economy, but placed a strain on services, damaged the social fabric of society,
and made England more violent and unequal and unhappy, and even threatened our
very democracy. Anyone who dared to say so was presented as the sort of man who
ran an army surplus shop and collected old SS daggers and empty cans of Zyklon
B.

But while sociology is not a hard science, the evidence has been mounting up -
and ignored. Some chose to ignore it because of their bigotry against "Colonel
Blimps", "Daily Mail readers" and "racist Little Englanders". Some - such as the
many employees in the enormous race relations industry - had a vested interest
in denial. Many others thought it true but that to admit it would unleash man's
worst trait - racial hatred - and result in murder and violence against black
and Asian Britons, and their friends and loved ones - British people born here -
being shipped off somewhere. Better just to leave London and choose the quiet
life or sing the benefits of immigration from your Dorset country home.

No particular event changed broke the taboo - not 7/7, which I think had the
opposite effect of showing just how amazing London is as an experiment and how
tolerant Londoners are at getting along. The Danish cartoon protests certainly
opened a lot of eyes and had unlikely people talking about "Islamicisation".
Most likely there was not any particular event; it was simply that the
increasing popularity of blogs broke the mainstream media's silence on the
issue.

But all over Europe people have had their Katrina moment. As the respected
American journalist Bruce Bawer writes in this devastating piece, in Norway,
Denmark and Holland voters are turning to parties that openly oppose mass
immigration. These are ordinary people who work regular jobs and travel abroad
and have friends of every race and creed, but who do not want to be a minority
in their own country or capital, just as no Indian or Ugandan or Moroccan would
want to be a minority in his.

The media tried to paint these parties as racist and fascist. Never mind that
Pim Fortuyn's party was led by an openly gay man and an openly, er, black woman.

What has prompted this rightward shift? Bawer points to several factors. One is
the prosaic one of numbers:

One source estimates that Britain's Muslim population rose from about 82,000 in
1961 to 553,000 in 1981 to 2 million in 2000-a demographic change roughly
representative of Western Europe as a whole during that period. According to the
London Times, the number of Muslims in the U.K. climbed by half a million
between 2004 and 2008 alone-a rate of growth ten times that of the rest of that
country's population.

Secondly, there is the financial impact of a immigration, a taboo within a taboo
in Left-wing circles, a sub-taboo.

For while some immigrant groups in Europe, such as Hindus and East Asians, enjoy
relatively low unemployment rates and healthy incomes, the largest immigrant
group, Muslims, has become such a burden that governments have made extensive
cutbacks in public services in order to keep up with welfare payments-closing
clinics and emergency rooms, reducing staff in hospitals, cutting police and
military spending, eliminating course offerings at public universities, and so
on. According to a report issued last year by the think tank Contribuables
Associés, immigration reduces France's economic growth by two-thirds. In 2002,
economist Lars Jansson estimated that immigration cost Swedish taxpayers about
$27 billion annually and that fully 74 percent of immigrant-group members in
Sweden lived off the taxpayers. And in 2006, the Confederation of Norwegian
Enterprise warned that Norway's petroleum fund-which contains the massive
profits from North Sea oil that have made the nation rich-could wind up drained
to cover outlays to immigrants. (This in a country whose roads, as a report last
year indicated, are in worse shape than Albania's.)

But perhaps most importantly is the growing realisation among some European
liberals that continued immigration, predominantly from the reactionary Muslim
world, is destroying liberalism. One of the most striking signs of this is the
collapse of the Rainbow Alliance, so that Bawer (who is himself gay) writes:

Owing to the rise in gay-bashings by Muslim youths, Dutch gays-who ten years ago
constituted a reliable left-wing voting bloc-now support conservative parties by
a nearly two-to-one margin.

The same could also be said about European Jews, who have traditionally voted
for Left-wing parties because of the Right's bigotry. Last year the
Conservatives won the Jewish vote in the London elections, the first time in
history that the capital's Jews had voted for a Right-wing party (it didn't help
that Ken had a fondness for barking mad Islamists and making concentration camp
gags to Jewish journalists).

And, as David Goodhart first pointed out in Prospect magazine four years ago,
the welfare state and mass immigration are mutually exclusive, or at the very
least the welfare state works best in small, homogenous societies. Yet the same
people who would want us to be more like Sweden in our social model are pushing
our demographics in the direction of vibrant and exciting but also violent and
brutally unequal multi-racial countries like the United States, Brazil or South
Africa.

First, social-democratic welfare systems work best, to the extent they do work,
in ethnically and culturally homogeneous (and preferably small) nations whose
citizens, viewing one another as members of an extended family, are loath to
exploit government provisions for the needy. Second, the best way to destroy
such welfare systems is to take in large numbers of immigrants from poor,
oppressive, and corruption-ridden societies, whose rule of the road is to grab
everything you can get your hands on. And third, the system will be wiped out
even faster if many of those immigrants are fundamentalist Muslims who view
bankrupting the West as a contribution to jihad. Add to all this the growing
power of an unelected European Union bureaucracy that has encouraged Muslim
immigration and taken steps to punish criticism of it-criminalizing "incitement
of racism, xenophobia, or hatred against a racial, ethnic, or religious group"
in 2007, for example-and you can start to understand why Western Europeans who
prize their freedoms are resisting the so-called leadership of their see-no-evil
elites.

Don't expect Polly Toynbee et al to admit this any time soon - the Left is
paralysed by its fear of racism, which is why Europe will continue rightwards.

However, while Holland and the Nordic countries have built up a decent,
anti-Islamist right, in other countries the void left by mainstream
conservatism's cowardice has been filled with neo-fascists - Austria's Freedom
Party, the Flemish Vlaams Blok and our very own British National Party. If the
Conservative Party fails to take up its position as Fortuyn's heirs, then the
vacuum will only get bigger. The space is open for either dissident
Conservatives, UKIP or some other non-fascist party to take up that mantle.

I hope they will, for as Bawer warns: "Who will win the war for the soul of
Western Europe? The Islamofascists and their multiculturalist appeasers, many of
whom seem to believe that their job is not to defend democracy but to help make
the transition to sharia as smooth as possible? The nativist cryptofascists? Or
Pim Fortuyn's freedom-loving heirs?"

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 15, 2009 Monday

WE WON'T TEAR UP THE LISBON TREATY

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 557 words


CLARKE'S DECLARATION ENRAGES PARTY EUROSCEPTICS

THE revised EU constitution will not be torn up if it has been implemented by
the time the Conservatives win power, Kenneth Clarke declared yesterday.

The Tory business spokesman angered Eurosceptic Conservatives by insisting that
the Lisbon Treaty would survive if all 27 member states succeed in forcing it
into law before the next election.

Pro-EU Mr Clarke said he envisaged only 'sensible discussions . . . in limited
areas' about the balance of power between Westminster and Brussels.

His remarks caused consternation in Tory high command.

The promise of a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty was central to the party's
campaign for this month's EU elections.

Gordon Brown has ditched Labour's manifesto promise from the last election to
hold a referendum seeking approval. He insists that the constitutional element
of the treaty has been abandoned, making a vote unnecessary.

But most other EU leaders admit that it is virtually the same as the original
version, which was rejected by voters in France and Holland in 2005.

Ireland voted against the latest version last year.

The blueprint will create the first full-time EU president and foreign affairs
chief, give the EU its own legal personality like a nation state, and do away
with Britain's right to reject EU proposals in more than 40 policy areas. Tory
leader David Cameron has resisted giving any firm pledge on what he would do if
the treaty has been forced into law by the time he takes office.

Eurosceptic Tory MPs have insisted there should be a referendum. It appears
increasingly likely the Lisbon Treaty will be implemented before the next
election, with the Irish expected to vote 'yes' in a rerun referendum this
autumn.

Yesterday Mr Clarke told BBC1's The Politics Show: 'If the Irish referendum
endorses the treaty and ratification comes into effect, then our settled policy
is quite clear that the treaty will not be reopened.'

But he added: 'I think we will want to open negotiations with the EU about a
return of some responsibilities, particularly in employment law, to individual
nation states.'

Mr Clarke pointedly said he did not think 'anybody in Europe, including me, is
in the mood for any more tedious debates about treaties, which have gone on for
far too long'.

But Eurosceptic Tory MP Bill Cash said: 'It appears Kenneth Clarke has
reinvented unilaterally Conservative Party policy on Europe. It is essential we
have a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty irrespective of the Irish vote, and this
is supported by a very substantial number of Conservative MPs.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'Ken Clarke has let the cat out
of the bag. The Conservatives have no intention of holding a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty.'

A Tory spokesman said: 'There is no change to Conservative policy. As Ken Clarke
explained, if the Lisbon Treaty is ratified and in force across the EU by the
time of the election of a Conservative Government, we have always made clear
that we would not let matters rest there.

'We would regard political integration as having gone too far. If that situation
arises, we will set out how we would respond. We have consistently made clear,
for example, that the return of social and employment legislation to UK control
would be a major goal for a Conservative Government.'

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 15, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Undeserving BNP stole EU poll limelight from UKIP

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 113  words


THANKFULLY, most people who bothered to vote in the European and local elections
supported parties more concerned with important issues such as our handing over
power to Europe and the vexing problem of uncontrolled immigration.

In the Euro poll, UKIP was the real winner but all the publicity was and
continues to be generated about the undeserving BNP.

The lesson for the Government is that most voters are unhappy with the prospect
of a federal European state (that is even more corrupt than our own), the
disintegration of our national character and heritage, our failing manufacturing
base and over-reliance on the discredited financial sector.

Ed Dickinson, Ormskirk, Lancs Yes

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 15, 2009 Monday

Public backs voting reform, Guardian/ICM poll shows

LENGTH: 553 words

ABSTRACT

Survey also offers some hope for Gordon Brown as Labour avoids damage from
leadership row

FULL TEXT

Reformers could gain enough support to win a referendum on changing Britain's
voting system, according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today. It shows that
support for all three main parties has ­suffered lasting damage from the
expenses scandal, amid distrust of the political system, and more than half of
voters back change.

Overall, 52% support electoral reform, while 43% want to keep the first past the
post system. A majority of Labour ­supporters - 51% - and Liberal Democrats -
67% - want a new voting system, although the poll did not ask them to pick a
preferred model. Among Conservatives, opponents of change retain a narrow lead.

Today's poll, which follows this month's dramatic implosion of Labour support in
the local and European elections, offers Gordon Brown some hope. While the
Conservative lead has remained steady in recent months, at around 10-12 points,
it is down from the mid-40s level the Tories were typically polling before the
expenses scandal.

Meanwhile, Labour has suffered little fallout from cabinet resignations and
calls to remove the prime minister. At 27%, support is down one point on last
month, the lowest Guardian/ICM score since June last year. But it is five points
higher than a more recent ICM poll carried out for another newspaper.

The Conservatives will be unimpressed by their 39% - unchanged since last
month's Guardian/ICM poll and down one on the more recent research. It is at the
margins of the score needed to win a Commons majority.

The Liberal Democrats, on 18%, are down two points from last month's
Guardian/ICM poll and down seven from their unusually high level of ­support in
the most recent ICM poll.

Collective backing for parties other than the main three is 15% - almost double
the 8% in March. Ukip is on 6%, and the Greens on 4%. As a group, 25% of people
who now back smaller parties previously supported one of the big three, with
Labour the biggest loser.

Labour is also well behind the Conservatives on two of the defining issues
likely to shape the general election.

Brown lags 22 points behind David Cameron as best prime minister. While 48% cite
Cameron as best, only 22% put the prime minister ahead. Over a quarter of people
who voted Labour in 2005 now think Cameron would do a better job.

The Tories have also pulled ahead as the party with the best economic team.
Cameron and George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, lead Brown and Alistair
Darling by 16 points: 47% to 31%. That lead is up 14 points since January.
Labour is not gaining from signs of an economic recovery. In January last year,
before the economic crisis broke, Labour had a seven-point lead on the economy.

As a result, most voters now expect to see a Conservative majority government
after the next election. While only 9% think Labour will win, 54% think the
Tories will take power, and 34% expect a hung parliament. In 2003, only 13%
thought the Tories could win: the shift in attitudes since then has been stark.

· ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,006 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
12-14 June. Interviews were conducted across the country and results have been
weighted to reflect the profile of all adults. Percentages may not add to 100
because of rounding

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 15, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

TORIES WILL NOT DITCH EU TREATY;
Clarke: No U-turn once it's made law

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


KEN Clarke yesterday said Tories will NOT tear up the EU treaty if it's made law
before they win power.

It will be impossible to go back if all 27 states sign up, he said.

His remarks sparked fury among colleagues.

Tory leader David Cameron has promised a vote on plans to give up swathes of UK
power to an EU superstate.

It was the key plank of their Euro election campaign this month.

But he has not given a firm pledge on what he would do if the Lisbon treaty was
ratified. Euroloving Mr Clarke dropped his boss in it, saying he could hold only
"sensible discussions in limited areas" if Ireland vote "Yes" in their Autumn
referendum and the treaty is then ratified.

He said: "If the ratification comes into effect, then our policy is clear that
the treaty will not be reopened.

"I don't think anybody in Europe is in the mood for any more tedious debates."

But Euro-sceptic Tory MP Bill Cash fumed: "I condemn his statement. He has
reinvented Conservative policy."

PM Gordon Brown refuses a promised vote on it, claiming it's not the same as the
EU Constitution rejected by France and Holland in 2005.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband scoffed: "Ken knows that Tory policy not to let
matters rest on the treaty is hare-brained." UKIP chief Nigel Farage said: "He
has let the cat out of the bag."

d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ken ... 'tedious debates'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 14, 2009
                                 First Edition

Wobbly Tories;
Conservatives still short of a clear win While David Cameron is the favourite on
points to be next prime minister, he is dogged by his party's ideological
infighting. Jane Merrick reports

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 950 words


As the dust settles on the fallout from the 4 June elections and the failed coup
against Gordon Brown, the Conservatives, under David Cameron, should be riding
high on opinion poll ratings of 45 per cent or more, and preparing to wave
goodbye to the last months of a Labour government.

But there are signs that the party is experiencing something of a wobble,
although the Conservatives remain clear favourites to win in 2010.

The Tories, like all the main parties in Westminster, are being punished for the
expenses crisis; and the success of Ukip in the European elections has kept the
Conservative share of the vote in check.

In the past week, the Tory leadership has also been hit by rows over two toxic
issues for the party: Europe, and tax and spending. And there is a further issue
causing concern to senior figures: the publication next month of full details of
pay and hours of outside business interests of MPs.

Last month, William Hague announced he was dropping his lucrative directorships
in September to focus on the next election. And other senior Tories who earn
tens of thousands of pounds outside Parliament will also come under pressure to
scale back the moonlighting.

A poll published on Friday has put the Tories on 36 per cent, 12 points ahead of
Labour. Yet, despite the healthy lead, this is short of the 40 per cent "magic"
number needed to be confident of a majority at the next election.

But it is the row over Mr Cameron's decision to withdraw from the federalist
European People's Party and form a new grouping with right-wing fringe parties
that could become the most serious problem. Pro-European grandees such as Lord
Brittan and Lord Patten have already condemned the decision as "unwise".

Mr Cameron and the shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague promised to unveil
their controversial new European Parliament group within days of the elections,
but this weekend only two parties were confirmed as members: the Czech Civic
Democratic (ODS) and the Polish Justice and Law (PiS) parties, which have
questionable records on gay rights.

And last week, Tory officials met members of the Danish People's Party, which is
anti-immigrant and whose members are accused of Islamophobia. Last night a Tory
spokesman insisted the party would have enough MEPs - 25 - from the seven
countries needed to form a new grouping, which would be unveiled within days.

In the face of controversy about Mr Cameron's new homophobic friends, the party
has taken steps to appear more gay-friendly.

A new event, backed by the Tory leadership, will be launched at the party
conference in Manchester in October. Called "Conference Pride", the event
carries a new version of the Conservatives' tree logo in rainbow colours. An
insider said: "This is about celebrating diversity and reaching out to all
sections of the party."

Cabinet ministers, trying to deflect attention from the Prime Minister's
troubles, will this week step up pressure on the Tories by branding Mr Cameron
"Mr 10 Per Cent".

It follows shadow Health Secretary Andrew Lansley's remarks last week that
Whitehall spending would have to be cut by 10 per cent after 2011 due to the
economic climate. While Mr Lansley insisted he was referring to Labour's own
figures, the Tory leadership was furious, believing Labour had been handed an
easy slogan, "Mr 10 Per Cent", for the election campaign. Labour leaflets
featuring Mr Cameron and the slogan were this weekend sent to marginal
constituencies.

Next month, Ian Gibson, the departing Labour MP for Norwich North, leaves behind
a 5,459 majority over the Tories. Given that they overturned a 7,000 Labour
majority in Crewe and Nantwich last year on a 17.6 per cent swing, Conservative
candidate Chloe Smith should win the seat easily. But if she fails, fresh
questions will be raised over whether a Tory landslide is really on the cards.

MEDIA PAGE 87

DAVID CAMERON'S EUROPEAN BEDFELLOWS

The Conservatives will announce within days their partners in a new Eurosceptic
group in the European Parliament, when they will controversially depart from the
European People's Party.

The rules state that the new group must contain at least 25 MEPs from seven
different member states.

Exactly who is Conservative leader David Cameron getting into bed with?

Czech Civic Democrats (ODS)

Leader Mirek Topolanek, a former Czech Prime Minister, is a holiday friend of
Silvio Berlusconi. Topolanek initially denied, then admitted, being the naked
man pictured in a state of arousal next to a young woman on a sun lounger beside
Berlusconi's swimming pool. The right-wing ODS has nine MEPs. Its founder,
Vaclav Klaus, has cast doubt on scientific evidence about climate change. The
ODS has publicly signed up to Mr Cameron's group.

Polish Justice and Law Party (PiS)

One of the largest parties in the European Parliament with 15 MEPs. Its leader
is Jaroslaw Kaczynski, left. Party founders have made homophobic statements,
including warning that homosexuality will lead to the downfall of civilisation,
and it is opposed to gay-rights marches. Members of the PiS recently wrote that
homosexuality was a "pathology". Publicly signed up to the new group.

Danish People's Party (PPD)

New Danish People's Party MEP Morten Messerschmidt, right, held talks with Tory
officials in Brussels last Tuesday, but the PPD has not yet confirmed
membership. It is anti-immigration and has been condemned for Islamophobia, as
as well as by the Paris-based European Jewish Congress. Has two MEPs.

Movement for France (MPF)

The party of Philippe de Villiers, a Eurosceptic. Takes hard line on opposing
European integration, but is also in favour of EU protectionism, something which
the Tories oppose. The MPF has not yet confirmed membership.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 14, 2009

7 Days: Whatever next - a man with an opinion?

BYLINE: David Mitchell

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 974 words


Sir Alan Sugar, the government's new "enterprise tsar" (calling him "captain of
the enterprise" would have been more fun) could lose his TV show if the Tories
get their way. Jeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary, reckons BBC rules
would be broken if Sugar continued to front The Apprentice while working for the
government.

Apparently, presenters of BBC shows are supposed to be impartial. I'm not
entirely clear what that means. It is sensible that people presenting programmes
shouldn't secretly be in the pay of McDonald's, Ukip or the Pipe Smoker of the
Year organisation. But presenters are allowed to appear in adverts, so it seems
that some transparent partiality is OK (thank God).

No one's afraid that Gary Lineker is covertly putting a cheese and oniony spin
on the football results.

So if an openly held bought allegiance wouldn't stop Sir Alan being a presenter,
then surely an equally open set of political opinions should be fine?

Not according to Hunt, who said of Sugar: "The idea that he is politically
neutral is a bit of a joke; he has written in the Sun , the Mirror , the News of
the World criticising David Cameron and the Conservatives in a highly partisan
way."

Who is "politically neutral"? Do the Tories really expect all BBC presenters,
even of programmes as trivial as The Apprentice (we're not talking about
Newsnight here), to hold no opinions at all? Has it not occurred to Hunt that,
in expressing his anti-Conservative views, Sugar isn't revealing himself to be
part of an insidious cabal, but merely saying what he thinks? He is
demonstrating that he's someone who, like all of us except a few morons, holds
opinions.

The fact that these opinions are to do with party politics doesn't make them
invalidly "partisan". They're still his views about what is right and wrong -
the same as if he'd said he regards theft and murder as immoral. And I don't
imagine the Tories would criticise him for writing an article that was openly
anti-BNP - and that's a party political view, however much it's self-evident to
all but a few thousand weirdos.

But as soon as the opinions become subtle enough to be of any interest, the
Conservatives claim Sugar shouldn't be allowed to express them, merely because
he hosts a pantomime version of a business show. It would help no one if every
TV face were chosen from the tiny minority whose views are so bland that they
tread a perfect median between left and right.

What is Jeremy Hunt's real fear here? Does he think that Sir Alan will start
adding a quick "Vote Labour!" every time he says: "You're fired!"?

He can't be genuinely worried that the show will turn into a party political
broadcast, because people would stop watching if it did.

No, the Tories are just desperate to rob Labour of its little publicity coup
because Sir Alan Sugar comes across on TV as exactly the sort of cock who Tory
voters like. His brand of "no-nonsense" nonsense and second-hand rhetoric, and
his public affirmation that wealth makes what you say more important, are
perfectly judged to appeal to the sort of idiot who thinks David Cameron talks a
lot of sense, even though all he does is repeatedly bleat "change" like a tramp
in a doorway, and his only stated policy is "to become prime minister".

I'm now sounding like exactly the kind of person who the Tories think shouldn't
be allowed on the BBC. But let me assure Jeremy Hunt that it's not because I'm
"biased" that I say that David Cameron is a chancer who's even more woefully
unfit for government than Gordon Brown. It's because I sincerely think it - just
like I think that grilled tomatoes are nicer than tinned and Sean Connery was
the best Bond. I honestly, unpromptedly believe it. Maybe I'm wrong. It looks
like I'm going to get the chance to find out.

The real problem with Sugar's new appointment is that it's such an obvious and
grim attempt at populism. Gordon Brown is either so short of ideas or so
despises the electorate that he thinks the best way to demonstrate that the
government is coping with the biggest business crisis in a century is to make it
the responsibility of a man whose day job is telling self-regarding mediocrities
that they should take off their Mexican hats before trying to put on their
jumpers. A man who has made himself rich, but whose career as a tycoon has gone
sufficiently quiet that he's got time to do TV.

T op-end billionaires are too busy for that - Rupert Murdoch and Richard Branson
don't have their own programmes, they have their own channels. Alan Sugar is no
longer primarily a businessman - he portrays one on TV. Brown might as well have
given the new tsardom to the bloke who played Boycie in Only Fools and Horses

What is even more depressing than Brown thinking that this might impress people
is that the Tories, the only plausible alternative government, agree. That's how
to survive in politics: don't focus on the country's problems - get someone
shouty from the telly to talk stridently about them. And then go on GMTV and say
you're personally concerned about Susan Boyle's health "because she's a really,
really nice person".

Does Brown honestly believe that's how to get people to respect him? To make
them think that, in the middle of the greatest crisis in his career, he's still
taking a personal interest in the health of a random middle-aged woman he hardly
knows? Does that kind of prioritisation play well with voters? What is still
more depressing is that it might.

Sir Alan Sugar is perfectly suited to the job of "enterprise tsar" because it's
not a job - it's an exercise in presentation, just like his role on the BBC. In
less bewildered times, an ambitious opposition would welcome the opportunity to
ridicule such a disastrously craven government appointment. Instead, they're
meanly trying to block it because they're annoyed they didn't think of it
themselves.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

BNP backlash;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; A roasting for Ramsay and a new child for Madonna

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 156 words


Politics Labour suffered a disastrous defeat in elections to the European
parliament. While the Conservatives topped the polls with 28% of the vote and
the UK Independence party, which wants Britain to withdraw from the union, came
second with 17%, Labour managed only third place with just 16%.

Sunday night's count also saw the far-right British National party winning its
first seat in a national election. The party's leader Nick Griffin was elected
MEP for the northwest of England; his colleague Andrew Brons for Yorkshire and
the Humber. The BNP is widely seen as a racist party: it refuses to admit black
people as members and advocates closing the door to immigrants.

Griffin hailed the result as "a great victory" and proclaimed "we will go on
from here", but on Tuesday he was forced to flee his own press conference in
central London after protesters pelted him with eggs, pictured above, and
yelled, "Off our streets, Nazi scum."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 2

Kinnocks have six state pensions

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski and Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words


GLENYS KINNOCK, the new minister for Europe, has amassed six publicly funded
pensions worth £185,000 per year with her husband Neil, the former leader of the
Labour party.

They have already received up to £8m of taxpayers' money in pay and allowances,
he as a European commissioner and she as a member of the European parliament.

The pair are already drawing payments from three of their taxpayer-funded
pensions. Glenys Kinnock, 64, soon to be elevated to the House of Lords
alongside her husband, is collecting a teacher's pension and from next month is
entitled to another from Brussels with an estimated annual value of £48,000.

Lord Kinnock, 67, is receiv-inone pension as a former MP and a second for his
service in Brussels, together worth more than £112,000.

Glenys Kinnock is simultaneously drawing a ministerial salary of £83,275. Her
job entitles her to a further ministerial pension.

After she retires from her job she will be eligible to draw a further UK-based
pension related to her service as an MEP, worth £19,730 a year.

Neil Kinnock, who resigned last week as unpaid chairman of the British Council
to avoid "perceived conflict of interest" with his wife's ministerial role,
receives a pension of £83,089 for his service as European transport commissioner
between 1995 and 1999 and vice-president of the commission from 1999 to 2004.

He receives a further £28,936 a year for his 25 years' service as an MP,
including time as leader of the opposition. He also claimed £13,700 of
allowances while a member of the House of Lords during 2007-8. During their time
in Brussels both Kinnocks claimed a housing allowance on top of their incomes,
even though they lived in the same home. This alone would have netted the couple
almost £600,000 over 10 years. "The Kinnocks are Brussels's very own Lord and
Lady Expenses," said Mats Persson of Open Europe, the London-based think tank
that calculated the Kinnocks' earnings. "One has to question whether Lady
Kinnock is a suitable minister for Europe. How can she distinguish between the
interests of Britain and the interests of the institutions that she and her
family have relied upon for their income for so long?" The precise amount of
taxpayers' money the Kinnocks received for their European roles has not been
made public.

However, Open Europe has calculated that the couple claimed £6m in staff and
salary allowances and would have received a further £1.7m if they had claimed
the maximum to which they were entitled. The Kinnocks did not dispute the
figures when showed them by The Sunday Times. Glenys Kinnock, a teacher who went
on to become the most-travelled British MEP, clocking up almost 130,000 air
miles in a five-year term, also employed her daughter Rachel as an executive
assistant. Kinnock failed to mention that she employed her daughter in
declarations of financial interests covering the period since 2004. The practice
of employing family members has since been banned. Rachel is now in charge of
events and visits at Downing Street. The Kinnocks' Cambridge-educated son,
Stephen, 39, director of Europe and central Asia at the World Economic Forum,
spent eight years in Brussels in senior positions with the British Council. He
is married to Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the leader of the Danish Social Democrats,
who was an MEP between 1999 and 2004. Glenys Kinnock has also been accused of
using her influence in the Socialist group to support a "campaign against
transparency". Marta Andreasen, the EU whistleblower, was sacked by Neil
Kinnock, then an EU commissioner, when she raised concerns about possible fraud
in the EU accounts.

This weekend Andreasen, now a UKIP MEP, said: "There was a clear conflict of
interest as, in support of her husband the commissioner, Mrs Kinnock lobbied
with the Socialist group to vote against allowing me to reveal my findings in
parliament." Kinnock has also been identified as claiming her allowances even on
days when there was no official business. Her spokesman said: "As minister of
state, Glenys Kinnock will not draw from her Westminster pension. She has a
small contributory teacher's pension and has contributed for 15 years to the
European parliament's additional voluntary pension scheme. She will be entitled
to a ministerial pension. "All payments to Glenys Kinnock were made as the
salary to which she was entitled as an MEP, exactly the same as all UK MPs.
Staff and office expenses were exactly the same as all other MEPs. No payments
could affect [her] judgment as a minister and she will properly fulfil all her
duties as a UK minister." All aboard the state gravy train Editorial, page 20

Kinnocks claimed millions from EU

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

BNP wins seats;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK ; A roasting for Ramsay and a new child for Madonna

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 157 words


Politics Labour suffered a disastrous defeat in elections to the European
parliament. While the Conservatives topped the polls with 28% of the vote and
the UK Independence party, which wants Britain to withdraw from the union, came
second with 17%, Labour managed only third place with just 16%.

Sunday night's count also saw the far-right British National party winning its
first seat in any national election. The party's leader Nick Griffin was elected
MEP for the north west of England; his colleague Andrew Brons in Yorkshire and
the Humber. The BNP is widely seen as a racist party: it refuses to admit black
people as members and advocates closing the door to immigrants.

Griffin hailed the result as "a great victory" and proclaimed "we will go on
from here", but on Tuesday he was forced to flee his own press conference in
central London after protesters pelted him with eggs, pictured above, and
yelled, "Off our streets, Nazi scum."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

The Conservative brand is no longer toxic in Scotland

BYLINE: JENNY HJUL

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1069 words


There was just one headline act in Scotland's political circus last week, the
invincible Alex Salmond and his gravity-defying Scottish nationalists. With
almost 30% of the vote and a clear 10-point lead over Labour, the European poll
was proof that the SNP have yet to fall to earth after their historic win in the
Scottish elections two years ago.

However, that does not mean there was no other entertainment. Of the smaller
sideshows, one of the most intriguing was the performance of the Scottish
Tories. While far removed from their party's triumph in England, the Scottish
contingent nevertheless pulled off a respectable third place behind the
nationalists and Labour.

Although they have held on to only one of their two MEPs, they managed nearly
17% of the vote, well ahead of the Liberal Democrats' 11.5% and not so distant
from Labour's 20.8%.

Most significantly, they made inroads into key Labour constituencies, including
Alistair Darling's Edinburgh South West and Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy's East
Renfrewshire. If this support holds up in a general election, the Tories could
win seven seats, a big improvement on their current tally of one.

Factor in the UK Independence Party's 5% - some of which is bound to return to
the Tory fold in a national poll - and the Scottish party has grounds for hope.

It may be too soon to bandy about the word "revival" but the shoots of recovery
are visible. Voters in Scotland have shown they are prepared to vote tactically
to defeat Labour incumbents, even if this involves throwing in their lot with
the Conservatives.

After long years in the wilderness, this is a seismic shift that should not be
underestimated. The party, so despised post Thatcher that it was unable to win a
single Scottish seat in the 1997 general election, is being slowly
rehabilitated. The Tory brand has been detoxed. These signs of encouragement
should be the spur the party needs to radically alter its approach in Scotland.
For despite its gains, it still has much work to do.

The scale of the nationalist victory is unprecedented. As Salmond was quick to
acknowledge, this is the first time the SNP has won a UK-wide election in
Scotland. They grabbed the largest share of the popular vote in 22 of the 32
council areas, compared with four for the Tories and three each for Labour and
the Liberal Democrats.

Being the party of government has improved their standing with the Scottish
public and made them appear an increasingly appealing alternative to discredited
Labour rule in London. Even though the majority of Scots reject their central
policy of independence, the nationalists are regarded as the best weapon with
which to fight Gordon Brown.

Much of the credit for this must go to Salmond himself, and the blame to the
leaders of his opposition at Holyrood who are incapable of landing a serious
punch on the man. They must try harder.

The Tories' Annabel Goldie seems to have belatedly realised this and in recent
weeks has led the attack on Salmond's Westminster expenses claims. It is she who
has been demanding he publish his diaries for the summer of 2005 to explain why
he spent so much of taxpayers' money on food bills, she who has been piling on
the pressure.

And about time, too. Of all the party leaders in Scotland, she seems to have
found it the most difficult to oppose the SNP. She has often preferred to
exchange jokes than jibes with Salmond and to do deals rather than damage.

If enmity towards Labour is in the Tory blood, antipathy to the nationalists has
to be nurtured. Goldie has appeared on occasion to actually like the SNP leader,
but that's got to stop. With the country on an election footing, the moment for
consensus is over.

Playing the unionist card is not enough for the Tories, because voters are
flocking to the nationalists despite the fact that they are nationalists. She
must therefore go for Salmond on his domestic record, on his failure to deliver
his promises and also on his character - back to those expenses again.

And she must be seen to represent Scottish interests. Possibly one of the
biggest handicaps to the Tories in Scotland is the party in England, or at least
elements within it which are noisily anti-Scottish.

The clamour to scrap the Barnett formula and to ban Scottish Westminster MPs
voting on English-only matters has emanated from Conservatives in the Commons
and does not help Goldie counter the nationalist surge.

David Cameron understands this and knows he cannot afford to ignore voters north
of the border. To boost his pro-Scots credentials, he might even back a
recommendation by the Calman Commission to give Holyrood more tax powers. This
would hand over half the income tax raised in Scotland to the Scottish
Executive, a move likely to silence some of Cameron's Scottish critics.

But it is not his job to take on the Scottish government. He is quite rightly,
and very effectively, exploiting Labour's shambles in his bid to bring on an
early election and unseat Brown. Goldie should leave him to it. On Thursday the
Scottish Tories instigated a debate at Holyrood, calling for a national poll.
Goldie said that the UK government had ceased to function in any meaningful form
and had become a distraction, blocking a new relationship between Scotland and
Westminster.

"We have a timeworn and exhausted prime minister wrestling with the recession
and raddled by the treachery of colleagues," she said. "Scotland needs a general
election."

Yes, but nothing she says or does will influence events at Westminster. For all
his Scottishness, Brown is not her business.

She has a perfectly legitimate focus for her political fury in the nationalist
leader and she should be directing all her energies towards him. Last week, she
could have taken her pick from any of Salmond's ongoing problems - the Scottish
Futures Trust, class sizes, rebellious local authorities, university funding -
and launched an assault on his lack of achievements.

The anti-Labour protest vote in Scotland is being absorbed too easily by the
SNP; the Tories' goal now must be to divert some of this back to its own
candidates by targeting the nationalists. Yet Goldie and her fellow travellers
seem unable to accept that the Labour party is no longer enemy number one here
and that the greatest threat to their electoral success is not Brown but
Salmond. What more does the first minister have to do to attract her attention?

jenny.hjul@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

SNP has seized Labour's mantle

BYLINE: JOAN McALPINE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1300 words


Scotland's political landscape changed utterly last week. But we were too
transfixed by the Lear-like figure of Gordon Brown on his blasted Westminster
heath to notice the big story up here. Personal tragedy is always going to be
more compelling than anything so dull as voting patterns and percentage shares,
so the Scottish implications of the European election result received less
comment than might otherwise have been the case.

The prime minister's problems made a gripping piece of theatre, with a cast of
characters worthy of the bard himself - we had the "dark Lord" Mandelson,
terrifying audiences from Stratford to Skegness with his icebox rhetoric. Then
there was the regiment of strumpets: ungrateful Labour women indulging in a bit
of overblown melodrama. Stage right, the rise of fascism added an undercurrent
of menace, softened only by the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP)
offering a touch of Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera to proceedings. Gordon
Brown had a bad war last week, but it was an entertaining one, with lots of
noise, gore and live action. His armies were devastated, the king him-selwas
wounded and bloody, but he was still standing when the curtain came down.

In Scotland, we seemed to be reading from a different script. Labour was the
loser, as elsewhere, then the similarity ended. The British National Party's
share of the vote, at 2.5%, was a fraction of its UK showing of 6.2%. UKIP,
which gained 11 seats in England and its first in Wales, might as well have been
fighting to preserve the sovereignty of Ruritania for all the attention it
received north of Berwick.

The big story in Scotland was in the mainstream, not at the margins. The party
of government here, the SNP, increased its share of the vote by 9.4%. It won 22
out of 32 local authority areas, leaving Labour dominant - only just - in the
heartlands of Glasgow, Fife and North Lanarkshire.

Now you might argue, and some do, that this was not a pro-SNP vote but an
anti-Labour one, an expression of disgust at the expenses scandal, the recession
and the London government's compulsion to self-harm in response to all these
pressures. But that doesn't explain why the SNP did quite so well. Its share of
the popular vote was 29.1%, more than the Conservatives in England, who managed
27.7%. The swing from Labour to the SNP in Scotland was 8%, double the UK-wide
swing to the Tories from Labour.

The trend here was also different from Wales, where Plaid Cymru had to content
itself with a 1% increased share. The man whose voice resounded in the valleys
was David Cameron, who flew to Cardiff on Monday after ousting Labour as the
main party in Wales for the first time since the days of Lloyd George. This was
once unthinkable in the land of Nye Bevan and Neil Kinnock, but history has a
habit of demol-ishincertainties.

That said, Cameron will not be flying into Glasgow any time soon to hold hands
with victorious ladies in blue rosettes. The Scottish result was still historic,
however, because it was the SNP's first victory in a UK-wide election and
because governments don't usually surge ahead halfway through their term in
office.

The nationalists have been in power at Holyrood for two years and the honeymoon
is a wistful memory. The party failed to win Glenrothes in last year's
byelection, and it was thought the tide had turned against Alex Salmond. At the
time of that vote, the SNP-controlled council was unpopular (proportional
representation means, for the first time in a long time, we cannot blame Labour
local authorities when things go badly on the ground). Scottish banks were being
bailed out by the UK government and the recession caused by the world financial
crisis meant the price of oil fell. Meanwhile, local boy Gordon Brown was saving
the world.

Brown has gone from superhero to zero since Glenrothes. But you couldn't argue
that life has been a bed of roses for Salmond either. More like thistles, for
the first minister has had his share of jaggy moments. As those voters who could
be bothered trickled into the polling booths two Thursdays ago, Salmond's record
was being attacked from the floor of the Holyrood debating chamber by Iain Gray,
the Labour leader. Gray listed the manifesto promises the SNP government had
failed to implement - a local income tax, smaller class sizes, an alternative to
the private finance initiative (PFI) and a starter grant for first-time
homebuyers. As well as these difficulties, Salmond's key policy of holding a
referendum on independence is opposed by the other parties. His budget was also
passed only at the second attempt.

Yet there was no sense that voters were backing the SNP with heavy hearts in the
European elections. It is hard for his detractors to accept, but the Scottish
government and its leader remain popular. Salmond was able to counter Gray's
attack by pointing out his opponent was even less well thought of than the
Scottish Conservative leader Annabel Goldie. That's almost as embarrassing as
the Tories taking Wales.

Labour's line of attack in Scotland has always struck me as baffling. Gray
blames the SNP minority government for failing to implement policies he has
helped to scupper. The council tax is hated, so what did Labour gain by trashing
the SNP alternative without a convincing reform of its own? Labour continues to
back PFI, a funding method now bankrupt thanks to the credit crisis.

Millions of pounds are being thrown into holes in the ground in Edinburgh
because Labour and the Liberal Democrats insisted on pushing through a tram
project against the government's wishes (and now those of the capital's
citizens). It is noteworthy that the SNP won in Edinburgh last week.

The electorate can see the SNP delivered what it could - saving threatened
hospitals, freezing council tax, dismantling prescription charges and bridge
tolls. Voters know the economy - and the Scottish government's budget - is
controlled from Westminster and therein lies the source of current difficulties.

There is also the important matter of image. The nationalists, whose talent
naturally gravitates to Scotland, offer the most convincing front bench yet seen
in Holyrood. Nicola Sturgeon deals with swine flu like a firm matron, John
Swinney is reassuringly dull in finance and Mike Russell, as culture and
constitution minister, adds to an articulate line-up. Kenny MacAskill has his
troubles at justice, but nothing like his Labour predecessor, Cathy Jamieson.
Salmond might be arrogant at times but, apart from Gandhi, was there ever a
successful national leader who counted humility as his dominant trait? The first
minister has represented the country with a certain swagger. His confidence
boosts the self-esteem previous first ministers Jack McConnell and Henry McLeish
said was lacking in Scotland.

Our poll today suggests the Euro result was no fluke. Support for Labour in a
Westminster vote would fall from 40% to 28%: a loss of 12 seats, including that
of Jim Murphy, the Scottish secretary. When the SNP won in 2007, Salmond said
Scotland had changed for good because, while there might be Labour governments
in future, "never again will the Labour party think it has a divine right to
government".

History may record his words as overly pessimistic. The SNP has emerged as the
natural party of government. If it wins a majority of first-past-the-post seats
at Westminster, it will achieve what nobody thought possible. Its dream of
independence might be further away- most voters are still not behind that. But
with the nationalists assuming the hegemony that was once Labour's divine right,
we may be in store for another seismic shift. As events last week showed,
nothing is certain and nothing stays the same.

joan.mcalpine@sunday-times.co.uk

'SALMOND HAS A CERTAIN SWAGGER THAT BOOSTS OUR SELF-ESTEEM'

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Half of voters say Brown is damaging UK

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 644 words


GORDON BROWN successfully fought off a party coup, but half the country's voters
think his survival as premier is harming Britain, according to a YouGov poll for
The Sunday Times.

More than half, 51%, agree with the statement that "Gordon Brown's continued
presence as prime minister is damaging the country", against 27% who disagree.

The poll of more than 1,900 people on Thursday and Friday also suggests the
hostility towards the main parties shown in the European parliament elections
this month has persisted.

The Tories, with 40% of the vote, have maintained a 16point lead over Labour,
which is down at 24%. However, both parties have lost support over the past
month; in May their ratings were 43% and 27% respectively.

The beneficiaries are not the Liberal Democrats, unchanged on 18%, but the
smaller parties, up from 12% to 18%. Within this, the UK Independence party had
8% of the vote, the Greens 4%, and the British National party 3%, with most of
the rest going to the Scottish Nationalists and Plaid Cymru.

Though some of this reflects a hangover from the Euro elections, it also points
to a significant backlash against the main parties and demonstrates what smaller
parties can do when they get enough publicity.

A majority, 60%, say Brown should step down now or before the next general
election. Only 30% think he should lead Labour into the election.

There is also strong support for an early election. Before the expenses scandal,
YouGov polls found little appetite for an early ballot. Now 49% think there
should be an immediate election and 24% say it should be in the autumn. Only 20%
think the government should hang on until next year.

Brown's messy reshuffle has not helped his plight; 49% to 35% think his decision
to appoint Sir Alan Sugar as an "enterprise champion" within government was a
silly gimmick.

However, the poll is not all good news for David Cameron. His overall popularity
rating of plus 25%, versus minus 50% for Brown, is strong. But voters have
doubts about what a Tory government would do in office.

Asked whether the Conservatives had the right team to tackle Britain's problems
effectively, 33% said they did while 50% said they did not.

Only 36% thought Cameron had the right policies to deal with the country's
difficulties, while 50% said he had not. This suggests that even some Tory
supporters have doubts.

Though voters are angry and disenchanted with politi-ciansthey have not yet
forgiven bankers for creating the financial crisis that led to the recession.
Last week it was announced that Andy Hornby, former chief executive of the
failed HBOS, was to be appointed to run Alliance Boots, the chemists.

Asked whether failed bankers should be allowed to run other companies, 51% said
they should be barred, against 34% who said they had as much right as anybody
else to continue with their professional life.

There is some evidence in the poll that people are becoming a little more
optimistic about the economy. While only 3% of people think the economy is doing
well, compared with 83% who say it is in a bad way, the net figure, 80%, is down
from 86% last month and 91% in February.

The proportion of people fearing that they or a member of their close family
will lose their job has dropped from 47% to 43% in the past month, while the
proportion who do not fear this has risen from 28% to 32%.

Even so, 33% of people named Cameron and George Osborne, the shadow chancellor,
as the politicians they trusted most to raise their and their family's standard
of living, against 22% for Brown and Alistair Darling.

Finally, 76%, said the BBC should disclose top presenters' salaries, compared
with only 17% who thought it was right they be kept secret.

Last weekend Labour suffered its worst post-war election result after it was
beaten into third place by UKIP.

For the full poll results go to www.timesonline.co.uk/politics

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 14, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Plane crash inquiry begins

BYLINE: Stephen Dunne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 299 words


THE three men who died in Friday evening's plane crash in Co Down have been
named as Stephen Annett and Andrew Burden, who were both 24, and Hugh McKnight,
a 54-year- old former police officer.

Air-crash investigators were on the scene yesterday as an inquiry began into how
the plane crashed into a field off the Belmont Road, just outside the harbour
town of Kilkeel.

Investigators say it will be some time before the exact reason for the crash is
known.

Henry Reilly, a local UK Independence party councillor, said weather conditions
at the time had been deteriorating.

"It was very foggy when the plane crashed, the visibility was very poor," he
said.

It is believed that the three men, who are all from the Annalong area, were
returning from the Isle of Man TT races when the light aircraft in which they
were travelling crashed, just short of the local airstrip.

Reilly said: "The aircraft must have clipped the top of the trees, and came
down. There is nothing to see at the scene. The plane just disintegrated."

Rescuers who went to the scene after the alert was raised said that the three
men had perished by the time they reached the aircraft. The plane burst into
flames after impact.

The mood in the area is very sombre, according to Reilly. "All the families are
devastated. They are quality, good, decent people," he said.

This is the second such accident in the area in the space of a fortnight.

On June 1, two passengers escaped serious injury after their plane came down in
Dunavil, close to Kilkeel.

Isaac Hanna, a UUP councillor from Kilkeel, said that the two young men on board
were keen footballers and were well thought of by the local community.

"They were good lads just coming into their prime. This is a terrible blow to
the family and all that are connected with them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MPs note/ Europe is prime concern

SECTION: LETTERS; 44

LENGTH: 106  words


I CANNOT believe that MPs and commentators believe that the lost seats and votes
in the European Parliament elections were down to the expenses farce.

They should look at where their votes have gone; the BNP and UKIP have made
considerable gains with both parties' agendas aimed directly at Europe and
immigration.

They should give the voting public some credit; we do not like the idea of
giving power to Brussels and don't want an open-door policy on immigration. They
need to listen very hard to what the voters are telling them, act accordingly
and then they might begin to get the voters back on their side.

A Bradbury, Tickhill, S Yorks

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We must defeat the hate-filled BNP with words, not violence

BYLINE: Jimmy YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; 41

LENGTH: 439  words


THE ELECTION of two British National Party Euro MPs is a depressing development
but I doubt that it merits the almost hysterical reception it has received. It
is important to put the election result into context.

Nationally, the BNP received only six per cent of the vote. Most people will
think that is six per cent too many but it means that the BNP is still only a
marginal, fringe political party. Moreover, had the election been conducted
under our first-past-the-post rules rather than by proportional representation
the party would not have won even one seat.

The limited success the BNP achieved was largely in areas that normally vote
Labour.

The Government's policies promoting mass immigration and multiculturalism, which
are widely resented, played right into the hands of the extremists but at a
general election most of those who registered a protest vote will go for
mainstream political parties.

Meanwhile, we must think carefully how we confront the BNP. The sight on
television of a mob shouting abuse and chasing the its leader Nick Griffin up
the street may give short-term satisfaction but in the longer term be
counterproductive.

It enabled the BNP to portray itself as a free-speech victim and gave it the
publicity it craves.

As Labour MP John Cruddas points out, the BNP Euro MPs were democratically
elected.

We have to acknowledge that fact and defeat their arguments rather than throwing
eggs at them.

LABOUR'S results in the European elections were among the worst in the party's
history. The SNP beat Labour in Scotland for the first time in a European
election.

The Conservatives beat Labour in its other stronghold, Wales, for the first time
since 1918.

Overall, the party sank to third place behind the Tories and the UK Independence
Party.

A jubilant David Cameron declared that Gordon Brown and his Cabinet were locked
in a "slow dance of political death". Labour MP Frank Field said: "Labour cannot
win with the present Prime Minister."

That was the background to a meeting between the Prime Minister and the
Parliamentary Labour Party last Monday.

The question was not whether there would be prime ministerial blood on the floor
the only question was how much?

Blood was shed but not by the Prime Minister. A few MPs told him he should stand
down for the good of the party. Mr Brown replied by suggesting a general
election would see them lose their pay and perks. Air hissed out of pricked
balloons. They ended up banging their desks in undying support.

Mr Brown is the worst Prime Minister we have had for years but as an
escapologist he could teach Houdini a thing or two.

Email Jimmy at jimmy.young@express.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COUNTERPRODUCTIVE:
Anti-BNP protesters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 14, 2009

Coming next;
A medieval pile of olde rubbishe;
Sue Perkins and Giles Coren try out some tasty - although not always tasteful -
time travel

BYLINE: Pete Naughton

SECTION: SEVEN; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 903  words


It's a beautiful afternoon in Westminster: Big Ben points, like an antiquated
rocket, into a pale blue sky; tourists coo and take photographs as the sun
bounces off the windows of the corridors of power; and an old Land Rover is
driving round and round Parliament Square with a woman dressed as Queen Boudica
gesticulating out of the back. Is this a joke? An ad? A Ukip publicity stunt?
No: it's the comedian Sue Perkins, looking, in her own words, like 'Cher after
she's spent a night in a Biffa bin'.

Perkins is filming a Roman-themed episode of The Supersizers Eat...,

the subtly renamed second series

of the food-centred history programmes presented by her and

the journalist Giles Coren, which begins on Monday on BBC Two.

Fans of the show's previous incarnation, The Supersizers Go..., will be familiar
with the format. In each episode, Perkins and Coren, dressed in period costume,
are immersed in the food and culture of a particular era for a week, undergoing
medical tests at the end of it to determine the healthiness - or otherwise - of
their historical lifestyle. Coming up in the new series will be trips back in
time to eras that include, as well as ancient Rome, Medieval England, the French
revolution and the Eighties (the subject of this Monday's episode).

The series is an entertaining, tongue-in-cheek affair, jovially blending comedy
and history, with each episode structured around

a handful of set-piece meals. The

bill of fare for Perkins's Westminster Boudica, for instance, includes

nettle and mutton stew, a bowl of blackberries and a pint of beer.

It's a carefully-researched menu, illustrative of the sort of hedgerow food 1st
century Britons might

have eaten, and an opportunity

for Perkins to poke fun at the invading Romans and how 'posh' they were for
drinking wine.

Perkins is, she says, 'not very good with a script' - and the whole show

is ad-libbed. The two presenters are handed research notes before each episode,
which they internalise and then later weave into their improvised on-screen
banter. Or, as Perkins summarises the creative process: 'We're thrown into it:
asked to eat food we've never eaten before, and just say what we think.'

Interviewing Coren and Perkins in a nearby hotel after the shoot, it is easy to
see how this works: both speak with a practised rapid-fire eloquence. Both, too,
are happy to admit being interested in the series for a variety of reasons - not
all of them public-spirited.

Coren, a good-looking bon vivant and son of the late humourist Alan Coren, goes
the furthest in this direction. Asked whether he thinks the remit of the
programme is more about entertainment or education, he shrugs: 'Oh, just
entertainment... the facts just get stuck in [on the] voice-over at the end.' As
to the episodes which he enjoys filming the most, the ones in which he wears the
'sexiest kit' rank highly, as these get the most girls Facebooking him when the
show goes out. Not that he needs their attention: he already has a girlfriend,
29-year-old Esther Walker, the Evening Standard's agony aunt.

Most of all, however, Coren likes having the opportunity to sample fine food and
wine for a living, which he also does in his day job as the Times's restaurant
critic. It was in this role that he gained notoriety last year after an
invective-filled email to a sub-editor who had tampered with his copy was
splashed on the front page of the Guardian. Coren seems mildly apologetic about
this now, saying that, 'I didn't cover myself

with glory especially.' He's evidently happier talking about 1920s cocktails,
Savoy dinners and Krug champagne than the incident.

Perkins, who says she's been drunk 'throughout at least 50 per cent of the
shows' (on account of the alcohol she's required drink on set), also talks about
some of the less glamorous aspects of the series. These include having to eat
duck's tongue in the Roman episode ('I was going to say that it tastes like
pig's tail, but you probably haven't had that'), to getting the 'meat sweats'
after filming - hardly an attractive prospect if your girlfriend is a
vegetarian, as hers is.

Perkins is also dismayed that for most of the 2000-year period covered by the
show, 'women have really just been on a bloke's arm'. And she seems to have been
genuinely moved by the experience of filming the episode on the

French revolution, in which she plays Marie Antoinette, whom she refers to as 'a
much maligned, much misunderstood person'. Tellingly,

the recreation of the French queen's final, pre-guillotine meal is one

of the only joke-free moments in

the entire series.

The immersive, gung-ho style

of The Supersizers Eat..., coupled with the general lack of sober reflection,
may irritate those who prefer their history served by a heavyweight academic
such as Simon Schama or David Starkey. But it's also what makes the show
original,

and keeps it from the kind of pomposity that often spoils TV history. As the
series producer Alannah Richardson argues, 'Because they're experiencing the
food and the locations, it makes it more real than someone just standing outside
a building and pontificating about it.'

Judging by the success of recent series such as The Diets That Time Forgot, The
Victorian Farm and Heston Blumenthal's Feast - all of which owe at least a nod
to Coren and Perkins - it seems likely that a fair slice of Monday night's TV
audience will have an appetite for The Supersizers Eat...

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 14, 2009

Cameron's cowardly caveat on a Euro referendum

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 334  words


LAST WEEK'S Euro elections must rank as the oddest national election ever held
in Britain. The Tories romped home as winners, with 28 MEPs. Look again at the
figures, however, and it can be seen that they won only 28 per cent of the
votes, on a pitiful 34 per cent turnout. Their candidates thus won the support
of less than 10 per cent of the electorate. To put it another way, nine out of
10 people in Britain didn't vote for them.

One reason why Mr Cameron's party didn't exactly receive the unqualified
endorsement of the British people was the bizarre game he had been playing to
curry favour with an increasingly Euro-cynical electorate. Determined as he is
not to "bang on about Europe'' (ie, to admit how far this country is now ruled
by Brussels rather than Westminster), he therefore reserved the focus of his
attack for the referendum he was promising on the "Not-the-Constitution'' Lisbon
Treaty.

Whenever challenged on this, however, he was very careful to commit himself to a
referendum only so long as the treaty hadn't by then been ratified by everyone
else. What he is banking on, of course, is that by the time he enters Downing
Street this will have happened, letting him off the hook.

The last thing Mr Cameron wants is a referendum in which Britain would be likely
to vote against the treaty by a huge margin, because he knows this would provoke
the most almighty row with all our 26 "partners'' and a major crisis in
Britain's relations with the EU. He and William Hague were thus able to make
tough-sounding noises about the "shameless'' way in which Gordon Brown had
broken his manifesto promise of a referendum, in the near-certainty that they
themselves will never have to act toughly by honouring their own promise.

Not the least reason why Ukip came second last week, with two and a half million
votes (including, I suspect, those of many readers of this column), was that
they saw through the weaselly game Mr Cameron was trying to play and were far
from pleased by what they saw.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

WE WANT TO JOIN THE EURO, SAYS MANDY

LENGTH: 463 words


JAMES CHAPMAN

The Business Secretary, the second-most powerful man in the country following
last week's Cabinet reshuffle, hailed the currency as a 'great success'.

He appeared at odds with Gordon Brown after declaring it was an 'important
objective' for Britain to sign up.

It is the first time for years that any senior minister has enthused openly
about the benefits of euro entry.

His remarks caused consternation, coming just days after 60 per cent of voters
backed parties hostile to the EU in European elections.

Critics also questioned Lord Mandelson's motives, since he is not allowed to
criticise the EU if he wants to keep his £31,000-a-year pension as a former
European commissioner.

Lord Mandelson, on a trip to Berlin, said: 'Does it remain an important
objective for Britain to find itself in the same currency as that single market
in which it interacts? Obviously yes.'

He insisted such a decision was for 'the future' and had to be made on the
'right terms in the right circumstances'.

However, he added: 'It is perfectly clear that the euro has been a great success
in anchoring its eurozone members during the financial crisis.

'I hope people will recognise this represents a major vindication for the single
currency.'

His remarks came as official figures showed a record contraction in industrial
production in the 16-state eurozone.

It fell a record 21.6 per cent in April compared with last year and followed
March's drop of 19.3 per cent.

The figures contrast with the latest UK production data, which showed a monthly
rise in April for the first time in more than a year.

Economists say euro membership has acted as a straitjacket for struggling
countries such as Greece and Spain.

And last night the Tories said countries that had joined the euro had lost
control over monetary policy.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: 'It is deeply disturbing that the
man who now makes most of the Government's policies has declared Britain should
join the euro.'

Mr Hague has pledged there are 'no circumstances' in which the Conservatives
would propose joining the euro.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'These remarks are very
alarming-I don't know which economists Lord Mandelson is talking to, but they
are not on this planet.'

In 1997, Mr Brown set five economic tests that must be met before ministers
would hold a referendum on entry.

The key test is whether the UK economy is coming together with the eurozone and
whether this can be sustained.

The second is whether there is sufficient flexibility to cope with economic
change. The remaining three assess the impact on jobs, foreign investment and
financial services.

Current policy is that the Government 'sees benefits in euro membership' but
that all five tests must be met.

Comment ñ Page 14

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Commons may have to vote again on EU treaty

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 533  words


BRITAIN may have to approve the Lisbon Treaty for a second time if the European
Union grants Ireland substantial concessions in an attempt to persuade its
voters to back it in a referendum later this year.

A new Commons vote could prove explosive and would be seized on by the Tories
and the UK Independence Party, who made big gains in the recent European
elections on the back of their opposition to the agreement.

Last year, Irish voters rejected the treaty which will increase the power of
Brussels and create a new EU president and European diplomatic service.

They will vote on the document again this autumn and the EU is working on a
number of opt-outs to offer as sweeteners in an attempt to get it through this
time.

The Irish government is seeking legally binding "protocols'' to the treaty to
show voters it has won substantial changes since the rejection last June.

But legally binding opt-outs would have to be ratified by a separate
parliamentary vote in Britain, either straight away or when Croatia joins the EU
next year.

In both scenarios, British ministers are concerned that concessions given to the
Irish because of a referendum rejection might reignite demands for Britain to
get a better deal.

EU officials and diplomats are said to be tying themselves in knots in an
attempt to deliver a "safe package'' that will not require another Commons vote.
The British concerns forced the cancellation of a key meeting of EU ambassadors
on Thursday and frantic rewriting of legal texts.

New documents setting out Lisbon Treaty guarantees for Ireland on abortion, the
right to life, education and the family with a separate declaration on workers'
rights have been delayed until Tuesday, just two days before the Prime Minister
meets other EU leaders at a Brussels summit.

"We must avoid a situation where guarantees to Ireland use language or words
that could open up the treaty in the House of Commons,'' said a senior British
source.

An EU official said: "If Ireland, which held a referendum,  gets a better deal
than Britain it makes Gordon Brown look pretty stupid after he went the distance
to avoid a referendum.''

Micheál Martin, the Irish foreign minister, has admitted that countries,
including Britain, face "domestic issues'' over the legal guarantees.

"We have to be careful that in getting what we want we do not upset procedures
for others,'' he said.

Britain is not alone in fearing that taking a protocol through national
parliaments could unravel the fragile compromises surrounding the Lisbon Treaty,
drawn up to replace the EU Constitution rejected by French and Dutch voters in
2005.

The Dutch and Poles, who like Britain forced some limited declarations to dilute
the treaty's bill of EU rights and to protect scrutiny by national parliaments,
also fear opening old political wounds.

Britain loses 40 national vetoes under the treaty which will create a Euro
diplomatic service under the control of a "European foreign minister''.

Margot Wallström, the European Commission vice-president, said: "We have to
achieve two things - give the Irish the guarantees and the texts that they need
and at the same time not reopen the treaty for re-ratification in other member
states.''

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

National: Labour in crisis: Voting by area

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 161 words


An analysis by the Guardian's Datablog examines votes cast in every county.

John Curtice, professor of government at Strathclyde University, said: "If you
compare share of the vote to the social character of an area you get some
understanding of a party's support." So, the Green party tends to get support in
areas with high numbers of graduates: in Brighton & Hove and Oxford it got a
third of the votes.

The BNP, says Curtice, tends to pick up support in areas with small Muslim
populations and large white working class groups. It got more than 19% in
Barking, east London, with similar support in Thurrock, Essex, and Barnsley,
South Yorkshire.

Ukip does well in areas with lots of self-employed businesspeople: its highest
shares were in the south-west of England, particularly Devon. Labour did best in
Newham, east London, with 40%, the Tories in the home counties, and the Lib Dems
in the Lake District and Richmond, south-west London.

Go to guardian.co.uk/datablog

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The immigration debate is not a right-left issue

BYLINE: Deborah Orr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1427 words


That long-running debate about whether the BNP should be given "the oxygen of
publicity" seems finally to have resolved itself. Days after the group won two
seats in the European Parliament, James W von Brunn, a US friend and supporter
of the BNP, shot dead security guard Stephen Tyrone Johns at Washington's
Holocaust Memorial Museum. Tragic for Johns, but a winner for anti-fascism.

The BNP's leader, Nick Griffin, has been at pains to avoid gulping the publicity
generated by his American fellow-traveller, by insisting that the Holocaust is
"not relevant to modern politics in 2009". Goodness, no. That came about after a
particular group was erroneously singled out as the architect of an entire
nation's economic woes. Who would be rash enough to repeat such a calamitous
strategy? I'm already fairly certain that the oxygen of publicity will choke the
BNP.

Nevertheless, there has been much head-scratching over why it should be that the
faltering of neo-liberalism has inspired people to move to the right, rather
than the left, across Europe. In Britain, it is pointed out ruefully that only
the BNP seems squarely to address the worries of the white working class,
formerly Labour's core voters, and wonders quite how this could have come to
pass. My own understanding is that it has happened because immigration is quite
wrongly understood as a simple left-right issue.

The left is certainly vociferous in its defence of the equal rights of
minorities once they have settled in Britain, and the mainstream right
understands that it is impossible to demur too much from this democratic line.
There is merely an emerging "sensible" consensus that if there are difficulties,
these are caused merely by sheer numbers on a small island - logistics not
racism.

Yet there is also a perception that Labour policy encouraged immigration for
such a long time for ideological reasons. This is quite wrong, as can be seen in
its ruthlessly authoritarian and inhumane policy towards asylum seekers. Labour
was enthusiastic about handing out work permits largely because this was what
its hard-won friends in the City had asked it to do. (And anyway, it kept down
wage-inflation, which was in the retooled Government's back-from-the-wilderness
interests, especially as it busied itself with expanding the degraded public
sector.)

All this was because a limited workforce is one that has some bargaining power,
while a workforce unable to complain about its pay or conditions, because it is
easily replaceable, is much more "flexible". The fast growth offered by an
aggressive globalised economy relies on attracting such workers, and such
workers are in turn attracted by fast growth. It's a vicious or a virtuous
circle, depending on how you look at it. If you're in the business of hiring,
you'll look at it one way, and if you're in the business of being hired, you'll
look at it another.

The problem for the left is that it feels obliged to criticise globalisation,
while simultaneously defending the people who are at the sharp end of the
temptations of its needs and consequences. The problem for the right is the
same, but in reverse. That's what people really mean when they airily declare
that the old left-right paradigm is finished. They mean that it doesn't make
sense any more because both the left and the right are self-contradictory.

The situation is further complicated because, flawed as it may be, the European
Union is the only international political institution on the planet that is
overtly dedicated to delivering the open borders that globalised trading
demands, but tempered with the annoying but crucial inconvenience of
standardised basic rights for all of its workers.

The expanding Union provided lots of cheap workers when there was money to spend
in Britain, and is providing far fewer now that there is less money. What is to
be learned from this? It's not that Europe is bad because it stimulates
immigration. It's that if you insist on concentrating a lot of wealth on a small
landmass in a globalised economy, then you are bound to over-populate it,
because people follow money, not allotment availability.

Only by turning your wealthy little patch into a highly militarised fortress,
with a severely limited welfare state that controls those inside as harshly as
it controls those outside, can you stop that movement of people, while still
maintaining some of its economic advantages (in the short term). That's BNP
Britain.

But is UKIP Britain much different? UKIP believes we can continue trading with
our biggest partner, Europe, as we always have, even if we withdraw. Yet Europe,
as it continues to expand, will be able to generate raw materials and produce
goods at more competitive prices than Britain. It's hard to see how that cannot
eventually end in economic isolation on this side of the Channel.

What does all this mean? It means political confusion. It means what most people
understand it to mean - that there is not much in the way of mainstream choice.
The only real choice is highly orchestrated globalisation, much more
orchestrated than it has been in the last 30 years. More European.

BNP MEPs, unfortunately, are not the only people that the British, and other
Europeans, sent off to sabotage this fragile, necessary project. A more
enthusiastically anti-European European legislature is more damaging and more in
need of rebuttal, than the opportunistic, unsustainable advance of two men from
the BNP. Neither Brown nor Cameron is minded to deliver that vital argument.

* Nick Griffin's lectures in electoral strategy might seem less cynical had he
himself not just spearheaded the Euro-election of Andrew Brons, whose political
career we all know, thanks to the oxygen of publicity, started at the National
Socialist Movement, founded in honour of Hitler, and responsible for
anti-Semitic attacks on property in the 1960s.

Brons now explains that we all did silly things when we were 17, though in the
early 1960s most of us managed to confine such activity to the ill-advised
cutting of our own fringes.

Boys in blue put on a show of strength

There are often complaints about the length of time it takes for the police to
respond to an emergency call. In the interest of balance and fairness, I must
point out that such a miserable experience is by no means a universal one.

A cacophony of angry, shouting male voices, accompanied by the loud barking of
dogs the other day, quite naturally drew me to the window, outside of which
there was indeed a serious-looking altercation, half-obscured down an alley.

I'd barely taken a step towards the phone when a car carrying four armed police
skidded to a halt, and the occupants waded into the fray. Impressive.

But it didn't stop there. Another armed response unit soon arrived on the scene,
followed by three regular squad cars and five police vans, one little, four big.
There were so many police it was impossible to count them all, and they were
soon marching the small group of miscreants into some of the dizzying choice of
available vehicles.

The alley in which the captured youths had congregated is notorious for its open
drug dealing and its crude dogfights. Residents were amazed that such routine
activity, long-since recognised as nothing we should trouble the police too much
about, had finally attracted the undivided attention of the law.

Later, it emerged that two police on the beat had, unusually, challenged the
assembled group, and that more than one had been moronic enough to take a swing
at them. It's good to know that there are some crimes serious enough to be
addressed with efficiency, passion and unlimited manpower. Sort of.

I cannot say that I am either surprised by, or disapproving of, Madonna's
eventual victory in her fight to adopt another baby from Malawi. Little Mercy is
sure to have quite a strange life, but at least it will be an interesting one.

The only worry is that it might prove to be a bit too interesting, as the lives
of the children of celebrities sometimes can be. I'm more disapproving of the
great clothes-horse's inability to reconcile her "Mummy" image and her
"sex-goddess-at-50" image.

Madonna is perfectly at liberty to dress casually and look fresh-faced when she
is getting on with looking after her children, just as she is perfectly at
liberty to truss herself up like a lap-dancer when she wants to.

But I do wish she could understand that all those crotch shots advertising
handbags just make observers suspect that she's an exhibitionist and a fantasist
even when there's a baby in her arms, or even especially then.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Feature - The cause of far-right poll gains? It's new Labour;
There's no room for complacency - the No2EU pro-worker struggle needs to be
continued if we're to put the fascists back in their box, insists Robert
Griffiths

BYLINE: Robert Griffiths

LENGTH: 1180 words


We don't need academic studies on voting behaviour to explain what happened in
the European and local elections last week.

Anyone active in a trade union or living in a working-class community should
know that many workers and their families do not regard Labour as a party that
speaks or acts in their interests.

Yes, those interests may not be clearly defined in people's minds, least of all
in consciously political ways. They often contain the illusions and prejudices
fanned by the state and capitalist monopoly mass media.

But at their core they represent the interests of the working class, those whose
main source of income derives from the fact that they have to work for a living,
have done so in the past, will do so in the future or are caring for
yesterday's, today's or tomorrow's workers.

They need decent jobs, pay, pensions, benefits, housing and public services.
They want to enjoy their leisure. They want to be treated with dignity and live
and work in peace. They want their children to inherit a better life.

They may well care about bigger issues of the environment, Third World poverty,
civil liberties and gender equality as well as immigration.

And they don't believe this Labour government is doing anything to address these
problems, real or imagined.

That's a major reason why only 5 per cent of the electorate turned out to vote
Labour in the EU elections on June 4. Of those who thought the European
Parliament was worth their attention, only 16 per cent voted Labour.

But while the Labour vote fell by more than one and a quarter million from the
2004 EU elections, there was no great enthusiasm for the alternatives.

The Tory, United Kingdom Independence Party and Lib Dem votes all fell by
hundreds of thousands.

Among the main winners were the Greens, whose votes and share of the poll rose
by around a third, and to a lesser extent the SNP.

The No2EU - Yes to Democracy alliance struggled to break through an almost total
wall of media silence at national level. As a new-born initiative, it
desperately needed the oxygen of publicity.

Most of the state and capitalist media were far more comfortable puffing the BNP
fascists and UKIP British nationalists.

They quickly understood what some sectarians on the left could or would not,
namely that No2EU was at root a pro-worker, pro-trade union, anti-EU,
anti-privatisation and anti-big business coalition with a potentially popular
appeal.

This was confirmed by the warm reception received by No2EU campaigners in
shopping centres and on the doorsteps.

Yes, the alliance was late to be formed. Perhaps a better name and a sharper
programme could have been devised - although it is difficult imagining a forum
of different left-wing organisations in Britain taking less than 12 months to
reach an agreement, splits and walkouts aside.

The fact remains that the No2EU initiative represented an historic development
in our labour movement. A major, militant trade union decided to forge an
alliance with left and progressive forces to mount a challenge to big business
and the new Labour clique across the whole of Britain, in circumstances which
did not cut across the labour movement's opposition to the return of a Tory
government.

Launching 11 million leaflets, more than a hundred public meetings, hundreds
more street stalls and seven election broadcasts, winning 153,000 votes and 1
per cent of the poll, and all from a standing start, is a creditable
achievement.

Above all, No2EU presented an election programme which focused on the EU and its
neoliberal policies to an extent unmatched by Labour, the Greens, the SNP and
Plaid Cymru.

And so we come to the biggest winners on June 4 - the BNP fascists, which is
what their new MEPs Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons undoubtedly are.

The BNP vote rose by just under 150,000 to nearly one million, while their share
increased by a quarter.

There can be doubt that mass campaigning by Searchlight, Unite Against Fascism
and others succeeded in blunting their appeal on a substantial scale. Exposing
their nazi sympathies and the futility of their false 'solutions' does work,
although this needs to be done all year round.

There is no room for complacency. Winning seats in Yorkshire and Humberside and
the North West will give the BNP a bigger platform and a shedload of Euro-cash.

A more united response to the fascist threat is required, but this will not be
helped by the scapegoating that has emerged in some sections of the left.

It is true that in the North West, BNP fuhrer Griffin would not have been
elected had at least one-quarter of the No2EU or SLP or 2 per cent of the Labour
vote gone to the Greens, or 20,000 votes from anybody else gone to Labour, or
14,000 to the Lib Dems, or 2,000 to UKIP.

To single out No2EU for attack for having the temerity to stand, however, is
reprehensible. Not least because it ignores the extent to which that alliance
contributed extensively to the anti-fascist struggle on the streets, in its
literature and - because it contested everywhere - through its widely praised
election broadcasts which the television companies and the BNP tried to censor.

No, the blame for the BNP's breakthrough lies squarely at the door of the new
Labour clique which has hijacked the Labour Party.

Its policies of privatisation, war and a police state, its failure to assist
workers and their families instead of bailing out the bankers and speculators,
its record of lies and corruption at Westminster, have turned off working-class
electors by the million.

Undoing the damage done by new Labour and salvaging something worthwhile from
the wreckage is now the urgent responsibility of the labour movement and the
non-sectarian left.

It cannot be done by electoral politics alone, and certainly not between now and
the looming general election.

A big upsurge in mass campaigning of every kind, including industrial action
where necessary, is needed to defend working-class interests and combat the
pro-big business, pro-war policies of new Labour.

A movement for the People's Charter needs to be built in local communities
across Britain, engaging masses of people in the demand for left and progressive
policies.

This is the best basis on which socialist and trade union organisations can
discuss the potential for developing a broad alliance which could also have a
realistic, unifying and non-sectarian approach to electoral policy.

But above all, the Labour government must be compelled to change course in order
to avoid the election of an even more right-wing Tory government.

The leaders whose trade unions bankroll the new Labourites wrecking the Labour
Party should organise a five-man march on No 10 with a simple message for Gordon
Brown - "Stop privatisation and public service cuts, tax the super-rich, pledge
to take the railways and utilities back into public ownership, support the Trade
Union Freedom Bill, scrap plans for a new generation of nuclear weapons and
withdraw from Afghanistan - or no money from our members to fund defeat at the
general election."

- Robert Griffiths is general secretary of the Communist Party of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 12, 2009 Friday

The coping classes will never;
be conned by Labour again;
Mass immigration;
and closer EU integration have no public support, says Jeff Randall

BYLINE: Jeff Randall

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1111  words


Imagine the scene. It's late and the lights are out in Downing Street - except
for a lamp burning on the Prime Minister's desk. Alone, brooding, he stares at a
political map of the United Kingdom in the aftermath of the European elections.
The colour red appears to have been rubbed out.

Of the 15.6 million people who voted, 84.3 per cent did not put a cross in
Labour's box. How dare they! Who are these 13,244,063 ingrates? Right across
southern England, from Penzance in Cornwall to Margate in Kent, more than 90 per
cent of the electorate rejected the party of Gordon Brown. Even in Labour's
redoubts of Scotland and Wales, close to 80 per cent turned away.

Worse still, Ukip, the party of Nigel Farage, a booze-and-fags-loving habitué of
London's clubland, was preferred to the weary collective that clings to Mr
Brown's Presbyterian conscience. Mr Farage is an engaging maverick who says the
Prime Minister "devalued democracy'' by ramming through the Lisbon Treaty.
Britain's increasingly Eurosceptic voters seem to agree.

For a ruling party at Westminster, this was close to humiliation. Having told us
that he had saved the world, Mr Brown was unable to save face on home turf. As
the horror show developed through Sunday night and into Monday, there began a
desperate search for excuses. The Prime Minister and his coterie of sycophants
plunged into their lunchbox of red herrings, porkie pies and cheesy one-liners,
hoping to distract us from the real reasons for Labour's drubbing.

First to be blamed were MPs who had fiddled while their homes earned. "It was
the expenses scandal,'' shrieked Agent Harman, the Opposition's secret weapon
inside Labour's high command. Of course it was, dear, except that The Daily
Telegraph's exposé of moat clearances, duck islands and the double-claiming of
husband-and-wife MPs had shown many Tories to be equally shameless.

Alistair Darling, the Big Borrower, fingered his party's poor communications.
"We need to explain ourselves better,'' he said. "We need to set out clearly
what we are for.'' Wrong again. His problem was that Labour had explained itself
too well - and we, the coping classes, were appalled.

Voters had not failed to understand Labour's offer; quite the reverse. On
Europe, they saw through Mr Brown's plan to dilute even further Britain's
sovereignty, caving in to Brussels, while circumventing our views.

In a recent YouGov poll for The Economist, the proportion of people who thought
that Britain's membership of the European Union was a good thing was down to 31
per cent, from 43 per cent 25 years ago. Those who saw it as a bad thing rose in
the same period from 30 per cent to 37 per cent. Support for loosening Britain's
ties jumped from 36 per cent to 51 per cent, and those in favour of complete
withdrawal rose from 12 per cent to 21 per cent. With Labour refusing to listen,
frustrated voters happily embraced Ukip.

Then there is the British National Party. Its success - two MEPs and votes equal
to 39 per cent of Labour's total - is the story with which Mr Brown's message
machine struggles most. It refuses to confront the reality that many decent
people, who are not xenophobic but feel under siege by alien cultures, want an
end to mass immigration before the melting pot boils over.

In a different YouGov poll, this one for the Cross Party Group on Balanced
Migration, 35 per cent cited immigration as an issue that influenced their
voting decisions. That compares with 12 per cent for the NHS, 12 per cent for
crime and seven per cent for education. The Cross Party Group cannot be
dismissed as a bunch of racists. It includes Lord Ahmed (the United Kingdom's
first Muslim life peer), Lord Carey (the former Archbishop of Canterbury) and
Lord Skidelsky (a politics professor at Warwick University).

The group's joint spokesmen, Nicholas Soames MP and Frank Field MP, urged the
main parties to stop ducking the issue and "respond to strong and well-justified
public opinion''. But how can Labour do this? As the architect of a policy that
has dismantled border controls and allowed a quadrupling of net inward migration
since 1997, it would have to admit to a catastrophic error. That will not happen
because, as we know, Mr Brown doesn't do contrition.

Very few British people are happy with the prospect of immigration adding seven
million to our population by 2028. We were never consulted; it was foisted upon
us. This is the democratic deficit that the BNP exploits.

In a well-timed report for the think tank Civitas, Mervyn Stone, professor of
statistics at University College London, accuses the Government of "sidelining
honesty and truth in some of its major policy-making decisions''. Bingo!

He highlights the "research'', if it can be so dignified, that led the Home
Office in 2004 to predict between 5,000 and 13,000 arrivals a year from the EU's
eight new nations. In fact, 600,000 turned up within the first 24 months.

Many are hard-working, skilled people who contribute to the economy, but that's
not the point. We, the British people, were conned by a duplicitous
administration that talks about "listening to what voters have to say'', but has
no intention of taking any notice. As its authority crumbles, Labour's
leadership is resorting to what George Orwell called "political language''.
This, he said, was "designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable,
and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind''.

Mr Brown exuded another blast of hot air this week when inviting voters to
distinguish between Labour's future "investment'' in public spending and Tory
"cuts'', after shadow health secretary Andrew Lansley admitted the need for
targeted budget reductions to restore financial sanity. In effect, the Prime
Minister was trying to repeat the scare tactic that had worked so well for
Labour at the last election in 2005, ie the Tories will obliterate our public
services.

Aside from the fact that after 2011, when inflation and debt interest payments
are factored in, Labour's own plans will necessitate a seven per cent cut, about
pounds 26 billion at today's prices, it was Mr Brown's use of the word
"investment'' that was so telling. In truth, much of Labour's spending is naked
consumption, money burned in the pursuit of votes, with no return for the
taxpayer.

When Margaret Thatcher was at Number 10, an MP who had studied several prime
ministers told The Observer: "You see, they all go mad, they all start hearing
voices... they are cut off from the real world.'' After almost exactly two years
in the job, Mr Brown has joined that club. While the sound of an unhappy
electorate is ignored, the voices in his head are coming over loud and clear.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 12, 2009 Friday

'Old Gordon' draws up his dividing lines

LENGTH: 997 words

ABSTRACT

The prime minister reverted to his old self with a 'Labour equals wise public
spending, Tories equal cuts' message at PMQs

FULL TEXT

I was as surprised as anyone when the prime minister .

He loves creating dividing lines - in this instance "Labour equals wise public
spending, Tories equal cuts".

The week's largely sterile exchanges were triggered by Andrew Lansley, the
excessively candid Tory health spokesman, who has form on this subject.

He announced that health and international development would be protected under
a Cameron government - that's Kind Dave at work - but that other departments
should brace themselves for a 10% cut from Cruel Dave.

That's not ridiculous. , and Alistair Darling has already begun to trim capital
and current spending plans.

Brown's language is his default position, shared by Ed Balls and other School of
Brown disciples and MPs on the left.

Remember, if Labour gets hammered on general election day, a high proportion of
survivors will be Old Labour MPs in safe seats - those keen to reject their
uncomfortable New Labour experience (winning elections, making tough choices)
and revert to old habits.

That's partly what the futile drive to oust Brown has been about: minimising the
scale of defeat.

Brown's dividing lines are a bit crude - but, before you scoff, remember that
this kind of talk helped Tony Blair win three general elections or (as Brown
would probably put it) WON them for the helpless youth.

In 2001 and 2005, Billy Hague and Michael Howard walked into Brown's trap even
as they tried to dodge it.

This time, it's going to be harder. As , the government was preparing to end a
decade of substantial real-term spending increases in the next three-year
spending round and would have done so without the huge costs of recession and
bailing out the reckless banks.

In an attempt to put Labour on the back foot, George Osborne's team has taken
Darling's budget red book predictions to assert that a "dirty dozen" Whitehall
departments face real-term cuts as soon as 2010-2011.

Ministers cite efficiency savings and other complexities to say it isn't quite
like that. The estimable Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) says the choice is
Tory cuts - or Labour cuts.

As usual, there's truth on all sides. "Cuts" often means "lower rates of
real-term growth" or "nominal growth only" - in other words, inflation
compensation only.

Brown should know, he's used these tricks against the Tories. Labour would - if
re-elected - spend £86bn more in 2011-2014, but that is a miniscule 0.1% cut in
real terms.

Westminster gossip is that one of Brown's reasons for wanting to replace Darling
with Ed Balls was that Balls is more forceful, more political and much more
eager to take the fight to the Tories, as the boss demonstrated at PMQs.

The PM offered his old friend other jobs, but Darling said he likes the one he
has.

But another reason for the thwarted move may be that the chancellor, more
quietly determined than he bothers to sound in public, resisted GB's efforts to
jolly up his budget predictions.

In today's FT, Darling sets out a typically cautious case for hoping that
Britain is moving out of recession, offset by a warning that resurgent oil
prices and a failure to clean up major EU banks may hinder recovery.

Meanwhile, there will be no autumn spending review while the picture looks so
uncertain. This sounds to me like an excuse, using the recession to keep the
Treasury's options open.

Unlike Balls, whose instincts point towards higher taxes, Darling comes across
as a man for balance. He knows he will have to start - start - paying back all
the debt he has been forced to accumulate, not to mention close that hole in the
tax and spend equation which GB left behind, if only to persuade the markets to
keep buying government debt.

Cheeky chappies, the financial sector caused most of the global problem but will
still take their bat home if they think a government hasn't got a better grip
than they did on the Treasury maths. The rising cost of financing US government
is already causing worries.

Of course, if you have to pay more interest, the debt shrinks more slowly. Brown
got that bit right after 1997 by shrinking the Tory debt burden, for instance by
using the £23bn windfall of the 3G phone auction to pay debt, not nurses.

That's why he entered the current phase with a low GDP/debt ratio.

So credibility is tricky for both sides.

As  - the FT would say the same - Darling's £30bn fiscal stimulus, denounced by
Dave'n'George at the time, has been largely vindicated, in both theory and
practice.

Polling suggests the Tories strike a chord when they warn voters against the
dangers of excess debt.

But credit and debt are the great engines of wealth creation - arguably the
west's greatest achievement - except at those periodic moments when we
collectively overdo it and there's a crash.

Labour still looks set to lose the coming election, of course. But the
Conservatives have not had a great record in the recession and will have to box
more cannily than they have if they are not to fight their way into a hung
parliament instead of winning a majority.

Loose talk about harsh spending cuts won't help them or us. Recovery and resumed
economic growth is the best way to shrink the debt mountain.

After all, there is no great public enthusiasm for Cameron, as the
Euro-elections, with a big Ukip protest vote, underlined.

And a hung parliament may be what the voters want next time, though it is hard
to achieve in practice. It might also be good for Labour.

Remember, if it is left with its hardcore base of MPs from safe-ish seats in the
heartlands, it might retreat into the oppostion comfort zone from which the
Tories are only now - with difficulty - emerging.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 12, 2009 Friday

We need change now, Gordon

LENGTH: 799 words

ABSTRACT

John McDonnell: The Campaign Group had nothing to do with the coup attempt, but
if Brown does not offer real change, I will back a challenge

FULL TEXT

About a month ago the weekly discussion meeting of the  of MPs focused on the
imminent  of Labour in the coming European and local council elections. We
decided to write to Gordon Brown to seek a meeting with him to see whether any
common ground could be found on the policy changes needed to win back support
for the party. No response was received.

Over the following weeks we refused to be dragged into either the  or the
positioning by others seeking to fill his shoes if he fell. Our line was
straightforward - there's no point in changing the faces at the top if there is
no change in political direction.

When I then learned that No 10 was briefing journalists that Campaign Group
members were involved in the email plot calling for Brown to go, I wrote again
to the prime minister requesting that his people desist from this covert
briefing. I told him straight that allegations about our involvement in this
backstage plotting were untrue and that whatever political differences we had
with him they were always expressed openly and honestly. I got no reply.

Few realistically doubted that the prime minister would survive this
half-hearted attempted putsch. Nevertheless at the parliamentary Labour party
meeting on Monday a chastened Brown for the first time admitted to weaknesses
and mistakes and assured Labour MPs that lessons had been learned and gave the
strong impression that changes would follow with intensive discussions within
the PLP and party, and that a raft of new policies would be announced.

Labour MPs have taken false comfort in the Tories not surging ahead in the
percentage share of the vote, ignoring the role Ukip plays in siphoning off Tory
votes in European elections that largely return to the Tories in general
elections. They cling to the statistic that  to win the next election, which has
only been achieved twice in the last century, forgetting that they themselves
were party to just such an achievement only 12 years ago.

On Wednesday the first of the policy announcements on constitutional reform
produced typical Brown-like long-winded, turgid consultations and committees of
inquiry, stretching well beyond the election and possibly into infinity.

If Labour is to stand any chance of surviving at the next election, real change
has to be visibly under way and progress demonstrated at the latest by the
autumn.

A consensus checklist of what constitutes real change is emerging from many
sources. Securing jobs by intervening in manufacturing and restoring trade union
rights; securing homes by a mass local authority house-building programme;
stopping the squandering of public resources by ending the privatisation of
public services; reasserting the government's green credentials with no third
runway; for young people freezing, as the first step towards abolishing, student
fees; for pensioners restoring the link between pensions and earnings; halting
the attacks on welfare; paying for our programme by fair taxation and cutting
out the waste on the likes of Trident renewal and ID cards; and making
government ruthlessly clean, open and fair with immediate electoral reform.

Most of the policy changes are blindingly obvious and readily implementable to
re-establish our credentials with each section of the broad coalition that
enthusiastically ensured the rout of the Tories and Labour's election in 1997.

These all seem straightforward, sensible and popular. But what happens if Brown
refuses to contemplate real change? If we go beyond November without real change
visibly under way, what hope is left of Labour not only remaining in government
but also surviving as an effective political force at all?

At that stage the only responsible act in the long-term interests of our
movement would be to offer a real change in political direction by mounting a
challenge to the political leadership of the party and letting the members of
the party decide. Let me give notice now that this is the path I will take. If
this route is blocked again by MPs failing to nominate, then the alternative is
Labour MPs making it clear at the next election that they stand on a policy
platform of real change as "change candidates".

Of course, they will be standing as Labour candidates but binding together as a
slate of candidates committed within Labour to advocating a change programme,
setting out the policy programme they will be advocating as a group and
supporting in parliament if elected. Only in this way can we demonstrate to the
supporters that want to come home to Labour that there is the hope and prospect
of change.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 12, 2009 Friday

Feature - No2EU's wrong turning on the election path;
Gregor Gall offers his views on why the left-wing political platform garnered
fewer votes than hoped

BYLINE: Gregor Gall

LENGTH: 679 words


NO2EU - Yes to Democracy has stirred up a fair amount of debate in the last few
months.

Talk centred on whether seats, if won, should be taken up or not, whether No2EU
was a proto-party in waiting and whether it had committed the cardinal sin of
constituting so-called "left nationalism."

The prediction I made to myself when No2EU was launched was that it would
receive a pretty disappointing vote, but for entirely practical reasons that
were far removed from the debates going on.

Gaining 153,000 votes (1 per cent) was not a bad attempt in some ways for a new
organisation. But No2EU was still beaten by the Socialist Labour Party (with
173,000 or 1.1 per cent), even though that party is moribund.

More significantly, No2EU was easily beaten by the Greens (1.3 million) and the
BNP (950,000), while other anti-EU parties such as the English Democrats and
UKIP did well.

There are four reasons for the poor No2EU vote.

First, it was launched with less than three months before the election - and
Euro polls do not exactly set hearts racing in Britain anyway.

Voter turnout was extremely low again, at just 34 per cent (down from 37 per
cent in 2004). Two-thirds registered their views by not voting.

While the EU and its neoliberal project are important in determining workers'
living conditions in Britain, there is no mass understanding of this.

Efforts have to be made to educate people about the EU's anti-democratic nature,
but there are huge obstacles to overcome.

This meant that the task of getting anything like a decent vote was gargantuan,
not to put too fine a point on it. No2EU was too little, too late.

Second, the EU is neither the source of neoliberalism or new Labour, which are
the much more immediate and manifest causes of attacks on workers' living
standards. Amid the recession and the MPs' expenses scandal, new Labour is far
more the focus of workers' anger - so No2EU was hitting the wrong target at the
wrong time.

Third, No2EU did not arise from mass struggle against how the EU affects
workers' lives. This means that it was much more difficult for workers to relate
to because they haven't been politicised in a way that supports No2EU's message.

The closest we've come to that was this year's engineering construction workers'
strike over the Posted Workers Directive. Here, media coverage concentrated on
the supposed demand of "British jobs for British workers," which obscured the
real issues.

By contrast, a number of continental European countries have had sharp struggles
over the Lisbon Treaty and its predecessors because referendums were held there,
which led to widespread polarisation of views.

Finally, the grouping's slogan of "No2EU - Yes to Democracy" came across as too
narrow and abstract.

The initiative was far wider than this, as a glance at its website or leaflets
showed. But the danger was that most people would never see beyond the banner
headline because they did not read the website or see a leaflet.

This meant that No2EU could be taken by some to be a version of UKIP. And if
people wanted to vote for UKIP-type politics, UKIP was the better-known brand.

It would have been better to have called the slate "No to a Bosses' EU - Yes to
a Workers' EU" to get the basic class message across.

Then there is the related aspect from the slate's title that everybody is in
favour of democracy. It's a bit little being in favour of motherhood and apple
pie.

So this did not differentiate from the actually anti-democratic parties. Here,
it would have been better to talk about the outcomes of democracy, such as
workers' rights and decent living standards.

Given all this, there is a danger that, instead of advancing the struggle
against new Labour and neoliberalism, No2EU actually sets it back.

A disappointing vote for a left-of-Labour project can dent the willingness of
other forces to get involved in creating a united and progressive radical front
because people's confidence in the viability of such a project has been
undermined.

g.gall@herts.ac.uk

- Gregor Gall is professor of industrial relations at the University of
Hertfordshire.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 12, 2009 Friday

Letters - No2EU's essential approach

LENGTH: 280 words


Chris Bambery and David Leal remain clearly hostile to No2EU - Yes to Democracy
(M Star June 10) and the EU-critical platform the coalition stood on in the Euro
elections.

While Bambery can't bear to even mention No2EU, Leal maintains that such a name
was not the basis for unity. That is clearly the case if you support EU
structures and policies or don't even want them to be discussed and debated
openly.

This reluctance to analyse the EU and its treaties, which impose hard-line
Thatcherite economic policies across Europe, is a weakness on the left created
by years of indifference and confusion.

This complacency has directly led to the rise of right-wing groups such as UKIP,
which ironically actually supports many EU diktats that privatise our public
services, and even worse the BNP.

Right-wing headbangers and racists cannot be allowed to corner the franchise in
defending democracy and against the centralisation of powers to unaccountable EU
institutions.

No2EU stood on a clear left-wing EU-critical platform which expressed deep
concerns over the Lisbon Treaty and over 61 per cent of voters backed parties
that shared these concerns to some extent.

It is pure speculation that No2EU voters would have otherwise voted Green in the
North West. They could have voted Labour, SLP or even UKIP.

For Leal to suggest trade unionists and progressive forces should not seek a
political voice and meekly "vote Green" every five years in place of new Labour
is simply unrealistic.

In fact if we are to stem the rising tide of the BNP we should be engaging with
working-class voters on our democratic, progressive EU-critical agenda even more
vigorously.

BRIAN DENNY, No2EU candidate.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 12, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

It's all hot air when putsch comes to shove;
After the Blairite Jonestown and the stalking Shetland pony, our hero lives to
fight another day

BYLINE: Austin Mitchell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 897 words


Week 3 in the Big Bully House and I'm in hiding, avoiding the phone. You never
know if a call's from the police or No 10. Which would be worse? My staff, who
take the calls, are sick of being abused for the sins of the boss. Can I claim
counselling for them on my office allowance? I do reply to e-mails. Since most
are anonymous this isn't too difficult. They read like the product of some
therapeutic writing class for angries, but when I try to reply with the friendly
Kiwi greeting of "Dear F***kwit", spell check corrects this to "fuschia". The
level of abuse is depressing but most are gems of literature compared with the
badly expressed resignation letters. The Tories do these things so much better.

Wednesday, June 3

It's a Blairite Jonestown. Hazel Blears leads the way. Purnell jumps and is
horrified to find that only Meg Munn and Caroline Flint follow. The Blairites
can't even organise a decent collective suicide, so they'll hardly be able to
set up a Lack of Faith Foundation to harry Gordon, though that's the only future
left for them.

Thursday, June 4

Local Labour parties are like Beau Geste's fort with bodies propped round the
ramparts. In Grimsby membership is down but the local party is very supportive:
critical of Gordon but hostile to the resigning Blairites. They're more
pro-Europe than I am but not wildly interested in the Euro election. No
rosettes, no canvassers, no poll checkers. You'd hardly know there was an
election on. At my polling station the returning officer confides that the vote
is rocketing up to double figures. The ballot paper is bigger than the polling
booth.

Friday, June 5

To add to the week's joy I have gout. The doctor advises me (the MP for a
fishing port) to avoid fish. And wine. As I leave, a patient tells me I've been
living too well on "those expenses". No sign of a round-robin calling on Gordon
to step down. I don't think it exists, though several newspapers ask if I've
signed it. So does the Whips' Office. "Have you signed it?" "No." "Well bloody
well don't."

Sunday, June 7

North East Lincolnshire's civic service. Last week the Rector told me he wasn't
prepared to offer me sanctuary in the church. This week he suggests the revival
of ancient church rituals, such as stoning and flagellation, especially for me.
He gives a magnificent sermon on the theme of "he who would rule must first be a
servant", looking pointedly at me. The congregation burst into spontaneous
applause at the end. All glaring at me.

To the Euro count in the evening. Labour manages to stay in second place ahead
of UKIP but no one but me notices that the two parties that do best are
Eurosceptic and the two that do worst are Euro-sycophants (namely us and the
Liberals). Serves us damn well right.

Monday, June 8

Instead of going to Westminster for the "crucial" PLP meeting I stay in Grimsby
for something far more serious: the visit of the Icelandic Fisheries Minister
who is more important to our town than Gordon Brown. Anyway I know that the PLP
will do nothing. It's a rally, not a leader selector. The critics will be
ignored. Gordon will repeat the speech he gave two weeks ago. Loyalty will ring
out. Don't need to go to know all that.

The Tories have a brilliant leadership change system: a knife in the back and a
body in the river. We're stuck with leaders because the election system is a
Doomsday Machine. Trigger a poll, say with Hazel Blears as a stalking Shetland
pony, and it produces several weeks of civil war and a messy, probably
indecisive, result. So why bother?

Gordon will lead us into the election next May. Mitchell's Law of Leaders says
that superleaders are always followed by mere mortals, be they Major or Brown.
Gordon's been hapless but has 11 months to learn. He may even begin to listen to
the party, although I fear he'll try to placate the Blairites by keeping the new
Labour albatross alive. For we MPs the putsch is over.

Wednesday, June 10

Arrive back at Westminster. It's all over. The Daily Telegraph has run out of
ammo. Beethoven's Shepherd's Hymn After the Storm rings out in the Whips' Office
(unlike the Foreign Office where they play only Beethoven's Ninth) and I'm
beginning to understand what has happened.

It was all a putsch. The media harlots made yet another grab at power without
responsibility. They nearly got it because 24-hour news hyped everything into a
frenzy. A clamorous chorus of columnists joined the fray to promote the cause of
our enemy within - teenage Blairites who believe what they read in the papers
because most of it comes from them. This motley gang has pulled out all the
stops. Now they've lost I go round singing the old Roy Orbison number: "It's
over. It's over. It's over." Though not in Grimsby.

Since things can only get better, I go into hospital for what should be the most
pleasant experience of three miserable weeks: an endoscopy. Sadly, as soon as
they've pumped air and enema into me, a call comes from the Whips' Office.
"We're under threat from this SNP call for an election. It's vital that you
vote."

Farting and leaking, I struggle through London's traffic chaos to find that it's
all a false alarm. The Government wins by 72 votes. Back to balls-ups as usual.
We parliamentary hacks are back in harness, hauling Gordon's empty chariot God
knows where.

Austin Mitchell is Labour MP for Great Grimsby

The most pleasant experience of three weeks: an endoscopy

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             June 11, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: LW; 27

LENGTH: 745 words


TEXT DSTAR TO 80088 Someone must have voted BNP. If protesters don't like it -
tough! I don't either but that's democracy in action. Why don't you sod off to a
nondemocratic country and stamp your feet there?

I hate Gordon Brown but doesn't give me the right to assault the prat. UKIP
voter, Leeds I don't like Nick Griffin or the BNP but they were voted in fair +
square so people should stop breaking the law by assaulting them. glassman the
BNP are scum. Racism is the lowest of the low and anyone voting for them must be
racist. Why discriminate on someone's colour? We are all equal. DEREK the people
attacking Nick Griffi n prove his points more than he could ever hope for!
FREEDOM OF SPEECH you idiots. Stuart, Coventry It's time some stupid show-offs
grew up and stopped throwing eggs like silly children just for publicity. Bill
Well, non-voters, r u happy now? U make me sick, you're the 1st 2 gob off when
it goes tits up! Rio's top lip most mps are like bananas - bent, yellow and hang
around in bunches. Dipper keenan To tory babe: do you not think the best plan
would be for all the parties to work together to get us out of this mess instead
of bickering like children in the playground?

Blackie To jay burnley: Scotland is the only country 2 hit oil and get poorer.
We would have done fi ne without you!

FREEDOM luv the way the jocks av a dig when england lose at summat. Your
cricket, footy, rugby teams are pish so shut ya holes and just toss ya sticks.

brett, cardiff TO MAC THE BRUM: all England games should be on beeb or ITV.

why shud OUR national game be exploited by sky and the FA? BECKS Shame bout
Setanta but the good news is we wont have 2 put up with that t*t craig burley!
smelly lad To upset father. I'm in the same situation as u except 4 1 thing: I'm
a mother. Don't think it's always the fathers who suffer. Children need both
parents. I hate people who use their children as weapons, its so wrong. ANGEL My
ex is taking my daughter for a holiday, so i dont get to see her. It's a woman's
world. blueboy (another upset father) Britney Spears should watch Take That and
see how it's done properly.

Well done, boys, Monday night was amazing. emsy lily allen's new song sounds
like something benny hill could have written 35 years ago. doctor graffenberg Re
crocodile deal: Ashes to Ashes is great! Ending weird but they will explain all
in series 3. Gene Hunt 4 PM!

Dollfi e Noel Gallagher for Prime Minister! Fat Eddie, Liverpool it is hard to
believe the once-gawky Emma Watson from the Harry Potter fi ms has grown into
such a beautiful young woman. Derek Yasmina is one sexy babe! LEG LUVER 2 HORNY
GUY: Yasmina won Apprentice, but u r judging her on looks, not brains. Women are
still not taken seriously in business. A Feminist wot the hell's wrong wiv paris
hilton? Nobody's a bigger dog lover tham i am and I'm sensible enough to know
that dogs can't thrive on caviar.

She's no dog lover. They r just a fashion for her. John does anyone know if
Lassie won any oscars for the films she was in?

Yes, she's a dog but what a babe she is!

Deffo the dog's bol***ks. tony Does any one know someone who gets their words
mixed up? I was looking for a male dog, but they only had bitches. My mate said:
"Don't worry steve, you can always have it sprayed."

Steve the cabbie I have no time 4 people who do not understand sardonic humour.
They r either politically correct or German!

Ninja Bet you can't print this in white ink. FLUFFY

Why do young ladies hate older men?

We don't do drugs, r better educated, don't cause fi ghts and we ain't perverse.

Think wot ur missing! Daddy Cool re butter penrith: back, sack and crack wax - i
got mine done for me hols. Me thong looks great now and it didn't hurt that
much. chris man re back crack and sack: i get mine done before every holiday.
the ladies just love it when i have my mankini on! ray jackson from whickham
Does anyone no the best way 2 get rid of man boobs? tom edwards, widnes Do our
soaps av spies Down Under?

Every other storyline is copied from neighbours or home and away. Irate caz 2
craig k leadgate: how did u loose ur partner 2 a game? If u wer pressing the
rite buttons on ur partner u wudnt need a game! Loser! REECE, COVENTRY To John
Lovett: I have a doll that I still play with. I stick pins in it when someone
annoys me. Dragon Lady our local pub has just been knocked down. im gutted. i'll
have to go down the park with my 3ltre bottle of cider for a drink now. big joe
stott of roseworth

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: quite agree wiv star that lucy pinder should be in cabinet, but id make
her education secretary - she could certainly teach me a thing or two! tom brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 11, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

BLEEDIN' GREAT VOTING!

BYLINE: KELVIN MacKenzie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 245 words


THANK YOU. Thank you. Thank you. You didn't let me down. I love you for it.

I begged you (last week's item) to give the three major parties a bloody nose in
the Euro elections by voting for the tiddlers to show your disgust at the
expenses scam going on in Westminster.

To give you some idea of what you achieved by voting UKIP, Green, etc, the share
of the big three has slumped from 96 per cent in the 1987 General Election to 57
per cent on Sunday.

And if you go back even further, to the 1951 General Election, the Conservative
and Labour parties jointly received 96 per cent of the vote.

You have these cunning scam merchants on the run.

Dodgy Of course, I'm not really comparing apples with apples as proportional
representation in the Euro poll gave us a real chance to make a difference and
make our point.

First past the post rewards tribal loyalty. Life's not like that any more.
Sometimes you fancy an Indian, another time a Chinese or a McDonald's, or a
Pret, or a Starbucks.

Tories and Labour love their old duopoly. Once in power they could trample over
us. That world is at an end. What is not at an end is the disgusting sight of
Brown continuing to promote his dodgy chums.

The Andy Burnham promotion to Health Secretary is a disgrace. This bloke avoided
nearly £7,000 of capital gains tax by putting his "profit" from a flat in
London's Dolphin Square, which he rented, through the expenses system.

So much for Brown's promise to clean up Labour.

Pass the sick bag.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BALLOT BOXED . . my call

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Politics must address the 'unpalatable' issues;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 552 words


Sir, However unpalatable many of us may find the policies of the BNP, the fact
is that it is a legal political party. If the history of the British Union of
Fascists tells us anything, it is that physical confrontation is very unlikely
to diminish its current level of support ("BNP's victory press conference halted
by hail of eggs from anti-Nazi protestors," June 10). On the contrary, the
disruption of BNP meetings may well increase public sympathy for the party, just
as the ill-judged "battle of Cable Street" actually resulted in greater support
for the BUF in 1936-37.

Why not leave matters to the good sense of the overwhelming majority of the
British electorate? professor geoffrey alderman University of Buckingham

Sir, Miland Joshi's view (letter, June 9) that the winning of two seats by the
BNP "says nothing about the great majority of people" in the North of England is
questionable. The great majority of "people there" did not take the opportunity
to vote - surely this says much about these people. Sadly, I think it is an
accurate reflection on our society - an unwillingness by the majority, whoever
the majority might be, to support the minority. richard ackerley Harrogate

Sir, Your leading article ("If you want to stop the BNP, change the electoral
system," June 10) offers another divergent tactic to overcome the troublesome
rise of support for the BNP. It sits firmly alongside other "head-in-the-sand"
theories as to why this happened; from Harriett Harman's insistence that
hundreds of thousands of votes for a racist party represents a natural reaction
to the expenses scandal to suggestions that changing the electoral system to
nullify these democratically cast votes will eradicate the predicament.

Yet, despite cross-party acknowledgment that all the parties should accept the
blame for what happened, nobody wants to address the real issues that emerged.
Immigration concerns are the primary cause of nearly one million people
supporting the BNP and Britain's ever-dissipating sovereignty at the hands of
the EU generated three million more protests from supporters of UKIP, the
English Democrats and No2EU.

The main parties must address these issues, however unpalatable they may be.

peter evans Coventry

Sir, Those of us who voted for the BNP and UKIP did so because we happen to
believe in their two central policies, ie, that the growth of the UK's
population is not a good thing and is partly the result of immigration, and that
the UK should be independent from the EU.

Our votes were not "protest votes against the major parties" and should not be
described as such. tom bulford Oxford

Sir, While I cannot criticise the election of any political party that has
followed a true democratic process, I must question the legitimacy of any group
that has a "whites only" membership policy.

tony mcquaid London EC4

Sir, The BNP has gained two seats in Europe mainly because of the low turnout on
polling day.

Why is it not law in the UK for citizens to have to vote and if they decide they
do not agree with any of the choices, then there could be a box for abstentions?
This would at least mean that everyone has to carry out their civic duty and we
would get an honest reflection on how the country feels. There should be a fine
for people who do not turn up.

sandra caplan Bushey, Herts

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

Cameron must not rest on his laurels if he really wants power;
The Tories did well in last week's elections, but it is still a long way to No
10, says Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1196  words


It is a tradition of electoral successes, such as the Conservative Party has
just had, for the leader to warn against complacency. David Cameron did this on
Monday, after his party came first in a crowded field in the European elections
and virtually swept the board in last week's English county council elections.

It is always a shrewd move. It suggests modesty, an absence of hubris and a lack
of arrogance, all qualities beloved by an electorate that cares little for
politicians at the best of times; and these are not the best of times. It should
also prevent party activists from easing off the accelerator, when every effort
may still be needed to see off the enemy. It might, indeed, also reflect
reality.

I suspect Mr Cameron is aware that, in this case, it does. The Conservative vote
in the local elections was impressive, as was the result, with Labour
councillors nearly wiped out even in former strongholds such as Lancashire and
Staffordshire. But there were no local elections in urban, metropolitan
districts where the Tories still struggle and where, in the European elections,
the BNP triumphed at Labour's expense. The Tories did astonishingly well in
Wales, but on a very low turnout and thanks to a massive collapse in the Labour
vote; Ukip's vote there rose by substantially more in percentage terms than the
Conservatives'. The Tory vote fell in Scotland, where there was a nationalist
surge.

In the European elections, the Conservatives did exceptionally well in London
and held their own in the East and South-East; but the further away from the
sophistication of the metropolis one went, the better, with the odd exception,
Ukip did. Its percentage increase in the West Midlands was five times the
Tories'. In Yorkshire and the Humber, Tory support actually fell, while Ukip's
rose. There is plenty of cause for modesty, absence of hubris and a lack of
arrogance there.

The main parties are all damaged by the expenses scandal; Labour especially so
because of the Prime Minister's inability to handle it properly and to do the
job he is paid to do, which is to lead. Labour also has the small matter of the
economic disaster, and 12 years of rule that have scarcely improved a thing in
this country, to be punished for. This explains the governing party's collapse,
and the failure of the Tories and especially the Lib Dems (who had a pitiful
couple of elections) to make more hay at the Government's expense. It is in part
why Ukip did so well and why the BNP won two seats in Brussels.

There must be a temptation in the minds of many Tories to argue that all will be
normal come the election: that the members and supporters of his own party that
Mr Cameron foolishly abuses as "fruitcakes'' for voting Ukip will return to the
fold. If I were in their shoes, I wouldn't be so sure.

It requires enormous energy to carry a grievance over many months, and for most
people life is too short. But to judge from the postbag the editor, I and others
on this newspaper have had about the expenses scandal, I fear time will be found
to bear this particular grievance until the election, even if it were to be 11
months away. There is unprecedented anger with politicians. The memory of moats,
gardens, porn films, Maltesers, capital gains tax avoidance and, of course,
"flipping'' will need no further encouragement from the media to be rooted in
the public consciousness.

The voters already have a clear idea which parties are associated with these
forms of peculation and lack of ethics, and which are not. That idea will take
years, rather than months, to fade, just as the Conservative Party at the last
election in 2005 was still tarred with the brush of the antics of a few
sleazeballs before 1997.

Therefore, the time is now really ripe for the Tories to start having some
policies: and, given the mood of public hatred against Labour, they can afford
to be radical. Perhaps Mr Cameron can win an election simply by not being Gordon
Brown. There are, in this climate, few better platforms. But the public will
expect, and the country will need, more.

It was clever of George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, to make a speech to the
business community yesterday in which he talked, correctly, of the need to
reduce our frightening levels of debt and to encourage saving instead. I was
glad he referred, somewhat vaguely, to the problem of uncompetitive tax rates:
let that be a straw in a wind for the immediate reversal of Labour's vindictive
and fiscally pointless 50 per cent rate on the

so-called rich.

It was good of Mr Osborne to remind the country that while we have been agog at
the bad behaviour of so many MPs, the economy has still been sinking. It has a
way to sink yet, so it is as well that Mr Osborne has abandoned his ignorant and
preposterous position of "sharing the proceeds of growth'' and is starting to
move towards one that appears at least to be anchored in reality.

But there is no point in having policies; they need to be policies that attract
voters. The success of Ukip should at least suggest to the Tories that their
ambivalence on the Lisbon Treaty went down badly, as does their acquiescence in
much of the other damage done by the EU on matters of immigration, regulation,
agriculture and the general democratic deficit. The party's education policy,
with its bizarre opposition to selection, is a grave self-inflicted wound. A
clear message of intent towards the police, rather as the Mayor of London sent
out when he sacked the social engineer Sir Ian Blair from his post as head of
the Metropolitan Police, would be helpful, too. And what does the party think
about welfare reform? They are, it seems, so close to forming a government that
we need to know these things: indeed, our knowing them would help them form that
government.

There remains one special worry for the party, and it cannot be understated.
Nobody imagines Labour is going to go from now until the next election
unhindered by further catastrophes. Mr Brown attracts them as a horse does
flies. Every time there is another episode of grief, his resources become more
and more depleted, his MPs more disgusted and affronted by the incompetence and
the consequent bullying and briefing. The spectacle of his chums going on to the
airwaves and lying about him and their party will not merely become more
sickening and counter-productive to the public: it will push more and more MPs
over the edge from enforced loyalty.

There is only so much a man can take of the repellent Ed Balls protesting that
he loves not being Chancellor, that he has never briefed against anyone in his
life and that, incidentally, Mr Brown is fabulous. Then MPs will realise there
is going to be an election whether they like it or not, and that fighting it
under a new man - any new man would do, though Alan Johnson would certainly do
better than most - might just save a few more of their seats. An opinion poll
yesterday seemed to confirm this.

Mr Cameron needs to be prepared against that late change of leader. He will
prepare best by being more than simply not Mr Brown: because if Labour isn't Mr
Brown either, the Tories really will have been right to avoid complacency.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Scots have the SNP, but English have few options

SECTION: LETTERS; 34

LENGTH: 81  words


DISINTEGRATION of the Labour Party. The expenses scandal.

Collapse of the banking system.

The credit crunch. Rampant immigration.

While the Conservatives may be the English party to put things right, they won't
meet the immigration problem head on because, like Labour, they need the
immigrant vote to sustain their gentlemen's club culture. In Scotland we have
the SNP.

Who do the English electorate turn to? It is no surprise the BNP gained two MEPs
and UKIP did so well.

Mr T Gardner, Perth

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown is deaf to demands of furious voters;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 34

LENGTH: 151  words


SO Gordon Brown survives, in the land of the supposed democracy that he extols
can we, the peasants, now have a promise that England will survive ("MPs bottle
out of sacking Brown", June 9)?

We have a Cabinet with FOUR unelected ministers, ruling England through faceless
quangos, unelected Lords and unelected bureaucrats across the Channel, all led
by a Scottish constituency MP who the English have no power over, and who brings
a reality show host into government to help decide our fate.

Those MPs in Parliament elected by the English must face up to the reality of
what is happening outside of their cosy little village. They show concern about
the BNP's success and say they are listening to the people. If they were they
would give England parity and her own parliament. Dismissing all the English who
voted UKIP and BNP is proof they are not listening to the message people are
sending.

Sheila White,

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN POWER: Yet Lord Mandelson was not elected

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

National: Brown relaunch: A new agenda: Changing course has doomed more PMs than
it has revived: Lessons from history

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 485 words


Gordon Brown's hopes of reviving his political fortunes with a series of bold
policy strokes to impress voters find some echoes in election history, but more
of them point to looming defeat than a reversal of fortunes.

In recent memory, the conspicuous policy switch which helped win a new mandate
for an embattled government came after 1990, when John Major succeeded the
ousted Margaret Thatcher and reversed her flagship policy for local government
finance, the poll tax, which had triggered riots. Major imposed a banded
property tax which survives as the council tax, and won the 1992 election
against predictions.

But there were other switches. Norman Lamont's pre-election budget that year
also crucially wrongfooted Labour by introducing a 20p lower tax rate,
underlining mistrust in Neil Kinnock's tax-and-spend policies.

More recently, Tony Blair was persuaded by his then foreign secretary, Jack
Straw, a closet Eurosceptic, to promise a referendum on the prospective EU
constitution ahead of the 2005 election, in order to head off Michael Howard's
challenge. Though French and Dutch "Nos" torpedoed the constitution, the pledge
still haunts Labour as the Lisbon treaty struggles for acceptance. Threatened by
his Ukip-voting flank, David Cameron is still committed to a referendum.

What may worry Brown in 2009 are memories of half-baked schemes from Major's
ministers - including hasty pension reform plans - which backfired in 1996-97,
reinforcing an air of incompetence.

All governments trim unpopular policies as polling day looms, though opposition
parties are much more often forced to reverse their own hostility to those of
incumbent governments which have proved successful with the voters.

After a series of election defeats by Thatcher in 1979-87, Labour was forced to
abandon its long-standing hostility to basic policies such as nuclear weapons,
EU membership and even council house sales. Since 1997, the Tories have been
forced to embrace the national minimum wage and a tax-funded NHS, popular Labour
policies which they previously opposed.

In 1982 Thatcher gave in to the miners because she had seen them twice defeat
Ted Heath's government in the 70s and was not ready for a showdown so close to
the 1983 election. After she had won it (thanks to her reconquest of the
Falklands) she took them on.

Industrial relations were long a crucial component of election wins. Harold
Wilson's abandonment of trade union reform cost him the 1970 election, as union
militancy cost Heath re-election in 1974 and helped defeat Jim Callaghan in
1979.

The worst pre-election miscalculation of modern times was Stanley Baldwin's. In
the depression of 1923 as a new prime minister he wanted to impose protectionist
tariffs to help British industry and felt obliged to fulfil his predecessor's
pledge to hold an election first. Baldwin lost his majority and Labour's first
minority government was the result.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

Letters - EU-critical parties' gains back referendum call

LENGTH: 181 words


The European Parliament election was won overwhelmingly by EU-critical parties
of varying degrees.

The Conservatives, UKIP, Greens, the trade union-backed No2EU and many other
smaller parties who took over 61 per cent of the vote all think, at least, that
the transfer of decision-making to the EU has gone too far and that radical
restructuring of the EU and our relationship with it is needed.

We all opposed the Lisbon Treaty and support a referendum and all want to see
decision-making returned from the EU to the more responsive national level.

Votes for these parties outnumbered considerably those cast for the pro-Lisbon
Treaty Labour and Lib Dems.

Both had shown themselves happy to surrender ever more decision-making to EU
institutions and to deny us a say over that process, breaking clear election
promises in the process.

The election of two BNP MEPs by the skin of their teeth should not obscure the
real vote against the EU constitution by the British people in every region.

The next parliament should give us the vote the Lib Dems and Labour ratted on.

STEVE RADFORD, Liverpool.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 10, 2009 Wednesday 12:46 AM GMT

Continental federalists suddenly warm to Gordon Brown

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 139 words


Here is another example of bias from Britain's most Euro-fanatical newspaper.
Note the casual description of UKIP as "far Right" and the assumption that the
BNP takes votes from the Tories. (How often do we have to go through this? Even
the New Statesmanadmits that the BNP is to the Left of Labour.)

Philip Stephens is right when he says that Continental leaders are desperate to
keep Gordon Brown in place so as to prevent a referendum on the European
Constitution Lisbon Treaty. Plenty of Europhile Labour and LibDem MPs have made
the same calculation. You see how it is? The British people must be denied the
election they want so that the Eurocrats can have the treaty they want. Yet
another example of how the EU, as well as being undemocratic in itself, serves
to vitiate democracy within its member nations.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

The Scorekeepers now hold the key to power;
The scale of Labour's defeat shows more than just a broken party. It shows that
the old tribal era of politics is over

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1070 words


It was a great personal triumph for Michael Foot. As results came in from the
European elections on Sunday night, with Labour scoring little more than 15 per
cent, it was, at last, time to reassess the achievements of Labour's most
underrated leader.

In 1983, led by the great helmsman, Labour scored a stonking 28 per cent of the
vote and saw off the pesky SDP. Annoyingly, Margaret Thatcher won a landslide
victory and this has diverted historians and the media who have a tendency to
chase off after trivia. As Tony Benn remarked at the time, the real import of
the result was not the Tory win but the registering of eight-and-a-half million
votes for socialism.

It is now common to note how many fewer votes than that Labour scored in the
European elections. Indeed, on one of the most gripping political nights of the
year (blink and you missed a small swing towards the Centre Right in Latvia),
Labour's vote was so low that, never mind Michael Foot, it would have provoked
Ramsay MacDonald and Keir Hardie to call an urgent strategy meeting. Sunday's
result showed Labour registering only a tad more than half of Foot's vote.

Yet to compare the modern Labour Party unfavourably with Michael Foot's, a grasp
of mathematics is only one requirement. The other thing you need to have is a
defective memory.

It is not necessary to hold Gordon Brown's leadership in high regard to assert
that between 1979 and 1983, Labour was immeasurably worse. It was ideologically
split between people whose ideas were plainly mad and others who were merely
completely wrong about almost everything.

The split produced a contest for the deputy leadership that dragged in all its
main players. The most electorally attractive figures left the party altogether.

The party's candidate for prime minister would have been a more credible
candidate if he had been put forward for a minor literary prize. And its
election manifesto was so obviously rambling, impractical and unpopular that a
member of the Shadow Cabinet dubbed it "the longest suicide note in history".
The correct response, therefore, to hearing that Labour is now doing worse than
in 1983 is not just to say "gosh". It is to ask "why?" And the answer is to be
found in changes to the electorate that have fundamentally altered the nature of
politics.

In his book Tides of Consent, the American political scientist James Stimson
argues that voters can be divided into three groups. The first group he calls
"the Passionate". These are people "who care a great deal about public affairs,
have strong views, and form lasting commitments to one side or another". In what
is no more than a common-sense observation, Professor Stimson argues that these
people don't settle elections. They can't because they don't move their vote and
tend to interpret political events in a way conditioned by their existing view.

A second group he labels "the Uninvolved". These are "people who think politics
isn't important in their lives (and they are probably right), don't pay
attention and don't want to be bothered". The Uninvolved often don't vote, and
what moves them politically hither and hither has a random character, with one
movement cancelling out another.

Which leaves Stimson's third group - "the Scorekeepers". The Scorekeepers "are
non-ideological pragmatists who trust or distrust each side equally. They tend
to see politics not as a contest of world views, but merely as alternate teams
of possible managers of government, each contending that they can do a better
job. The Scorekeepers are not choosing directions in their votes, they are
hiring managers."

It is this group - pragmatic, ready to change sides, involved enough to care -
that really accounts for Professor Stimson's political tides.

What we have seen in the past 30 years is a shift from "the Passionate" group,
swelling the ranks of "the Scorekeepers". This changes politics in two ways.
First, it makes elections more volatile. Votes are lent to parties, rather than
given them for life. A party that wins a healthy majority in one election can
lose by a landslide in the next. The base vote that was once prepared to turn
out even for Michael Foot is much diminished.

The second change is that politics has become more pragmatic, less partisan,
more inclined to a sort of cool centrist position. Politicians who seem
obsessive or extreme are unattractive to the Scorekeepers. The ability of
leaders to communicate matters more as voters "interview" their next prime
minister before hiring him or her. The quality of the chief executive is more
important than the party's identity. Try to fight an election with a leader even
slightly inferior to the alternative on offer and you risk being slaughtered.

These two changes make Labour's poor position more readily understandable, but
still don't explain why the change has taken place. Why has there been this
shift from the Passionate to the Scorekeepers? Professor Stimson believes that
committed voters are ideologues. I don't think it is so simple. I believe that
people's political positions aren't generally the result of book-learning and
abstract thinking. They are a statement of identity. People choose their
politics as a statement about themselves. And often they sign up to support a
party as a way of joining a tribe.

In British politics, people have long chosen their tribe along class lines.
Labour could rely on working-class solidarity. Voting Conservative was part of
the middle-class package. There was a big gulf between the two, and moving from
one to the other seemed unthinkable for many people. It would have involved
changing who they are.

Tony Blair was the Scorekeepers' pick for PM. He didn't just shift the ideology
of the Labour Party, he also changed its identity. He made it possible for
lawyers living in big houses to vote Labour. He also made it possible for
factory workers living in Yorkshire not to vote Labour.

So Labour's poor election result last week means much more than that Gordon
Brown is a broken leader and, ahem guys, it might be a good idea to get yourself
another one. It means that the old politics of safe seats and massive core votes
is being altered for ever.

Labour can lose in Wales, the Tories can be defeated in Guildford, UKIP can rise
today and it can disappear tomorrow. The era of the Scorekeepers has arrived.

daniel.finkelstein@thetimes.co.uk

People choose their politics as a statement about their identity

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Foot: a credible candidate for a minor literary prize, not No
10

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

LENGTH: 537 words


WHEN WILL LABOUR LISTEN TO THE VOTERS?

FOR the moment, at least, Labour MPs seem to have decided they'll be better off
sticking by Mr Brown in the hope of delaying a General Election.

Indeed, the irony is that Labour's crushing defeat in the local Euroelections
may have saved their leader to fight another day.

But in all the farcical goings on over the past few days, hasn't one rather
important group of people been entirely overlooked in all this infighting and
politicking?

What about the voters? Last week, the British people delivered some very clear
messages to all three mainstream parties. To Labour MPs, in particular, the
first was that we're heartily sick of them.

In the party's worst national defeat since the Second World War, less than 16
per cent of those who could bring themselves to vote at all chose to put their
crosses by Labour.

How could the electorate have made it clearer that we want a general election as
soon as possible, to replace an exhausted and discredited Government with one
that enjoys the mandate of the people?

Why, Labour couldn't even win in its traditional heartland of Wales. The
humiliation couldn't have been more complete.

Yet here is the 'people's party', doing everything in its power to thwart the
people's wishes.

There were lessons from the ballot box, too, about the European Union.

The pitifully low turnout alone ñ a mere 34 per cent ñ should have taught Labour
something about the remoteness of the EU and the popular feeling that democracy,
Brussels-style, is a total, unaccountable sham that doesn't, as Max Hastings
argues in these pages, even begin to represent the voters' views.

Meanwhile, the overwhelming majority of those who did vote opted for parties
that either want out of the EU altogether - such as UKIP - or Eurosceptics such
as the Tories, who demand a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

What could be clearer than that? Yet, unbelievably, we now see Lord Mandelson -
exulting in his swaggering title of 'First Secretary' and in effective command
of great swathes of Government policy - airily charging ahead with his plans for
further integration with Europe.

In a direct snub to the electorate's verdict, he and Mr Brown seem determined to
carry on denying us the referendum Labour unequivocally promised in its last
manifesto.

Has there ever been a more flagrant breach of an election pledge?

Perhaps the clearest message of all from the local and Euro-elections is that
the people want to clean up the cesspit of Westminster exposed over the past
agonising month by the deeply depressing scandal over MPs' expenses.

Hence the lukewarm endorsement of the Tories and poor showing of the LibDems.

But how will that be achieved when at least half a dozen ministers, up to their
eyes in sleaze allegations, are allowed to cling on to their jobs?

Mr Brown chooses to pretend the public are clamouring for reforms in the voting
system to make it more like the one used in the Euro-elections (which gave us
two MEPs from the fascist British National Party).

We're not. All we're demanding is honest MPs who represent the views of the
voters.

And although we're unlikely to get one, only a General Election can put power
back where it belongs ñ in the hands of the British people.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

DEMOCRACY? YOU'RE JOKING. THE LESSON OF THIS VOTE IS THAT MOST OF US FEEL NO
ONE'S SPEAKING UP FOR OUR VIEWS

BYLINE: BY MAX HASTINGS

LENGTH: 1289 words


THEY ALL agree: scarcely a politician in the European Union denies that
yesterday's was a shocker, not merely for individual parties, but for the
credibility of democracy.

Across Europe, only 43 per cent of voters bothered to turn out, against 62 per
cent back in idealistic 1979. Margot Wallstrom, vice-president of the EU,
admitted yesterday that this figure 'does affect the legitimacy of the EU'.

In Holland, Austria, Denmark, Slovakia and Hungary, fringe and frankly lunatic
parties gained ground.

In Latvia, a Russian group led by an ex- communist official jailed in the
Nineties for promoting a pro-Moscow coup won 25 per cent of the country's
European Parliament seats. Almost everywhere centre-right parties prospered at
the expense of socialists.

In Britain, turnout was an abysmal 35 per cent or thereabouts. The disgusting
British National Party won two Strasbourg seats.

BLAME

The obsessive nationalist UKIP polled more votes than Labour, receiving almost
one in five of all ballots cast. In Wales, Gordon Brown's party produced its
worst performance since World War II, and gained only 21 per cent against the
SNP's 29 per cent in Scotland.

The Tories led the field across Britain, with 27.7 per cent against Labour's
15.7 per cent, but their overall vote rose only 1 per cent. Many of their
natural supporters instead voted for UKIP.

The leaders of the big European nations -- Angela Merkel, Nicolas Sarkozy and
Silvio Berlusconi -- can draw comfort from the fact that support for their
governments held up relatively well.

The German, French and Italian peoples seem willing to treat the global
recession as an Anglo-Saxon creation, for which they do not blame their own
rulers.

But nobody has dared to claim that the election result suggests the slightest
popular enthusiasm among the peoples of Europe for the Brussels project and for
the looming Lisbon Treaty.

Margaret Thatcher would say that it vindicates all the warnings which, as
Britain's prime minister, she expressed in her 1988 Bruges speech.

'We have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the state in Britain,
only to see them re-imposed at a European level,' she asserted in ringing tones
which shook her Euro audience to the core.

'If we cannot reform those Community policies which are patently wrong or
ineffective and which are rightly causing public disquiet, then we shall not get
the public's support for the Community's future development.'

So, indeed, it has proved. Many Europeans are far less antagonistic to the EU
than substantial numbers of British voters. But last week's vote, and especially
its minority turnout, reveals a stunning cynicism about Brussels and all its
works.

The British result also reflects hostility to the EU. But most of us believe
that it goes much further and deeper than that, signalling disillusionment with
the entire leadership of our society. This does not merely derive from the
scandal of MPs' expenses, though that contributed.

There is an overarching belief among voters that those who exercise power in
Britain, in commerce and law as well as politics, are miserably failing to do so
in the way that ordinary people want.

They see the bankers, who have brought the financial system to its knees, still
determined to reward themselves as if they were success stories. They see
captains of industry paying themselves more millions while their companies
report losses and their employees receive P45s.

They fume at our judges, who interpret the hated Human Rights Act in a fashion
that makes Britain the playground of every migrant and dissident who can get
through Dover and sign on to the benefit system.

They behold an army of unelected bureaucrats and quango chiefs whose expenses
and pensions swell, even as the private sector totters and ordinary savers'
hard- earned nest-eggs shrivel.

There are the victims of crime who see police, courts and ministers apparently
impotent to stem the rise of inner-city feral youth, the breakdown of
traditional manners, discipline and decency.

There are the parents bitterly disappointed in their childrens' schooling or
lack of it. There are householders who wonder how we shall keep the lights on a
generation hence, if we must rely on windmills and green gimmickry to do it.

All such people have lost faith in the ability and willingness, not only of
Gordon Brown's government, but of Britain's entire polity, to respond to their
hopes, fears and needs. A very senior service officer's wife told me, with a
certain defiant pride, that she had voted for UKIP.

She is not violently anti-European. Like many of us, she puts Europe pretty low
down the nation's roll- call of problems. She simply wanted to unleash a volley
at the nation's established political parties.

A host of others up and down the land made the same decision, by voting for UKIP
or the BNP. Health Secretary Andy Burnham said ruefully yesterday: 'the BNP is
like the ultimate protest vote'. He called it 'a two-fingered salute. I think it
is largely a comment on Westminster politics'.

ANGER

So it is. These results represent a howl of anger from millions of people who,
in many different ways, perceive themselves as disenfranchised. That is to say,
they might have been given a right to scrawl a cross on a ridiculous 18in ballot
paper with more names on it than a Grand National card, but they no longer
believe that supporting one of the major parties will contribute towards
creating the sort of Britain they want.

Our politicians of every hue should be deeply chastened by these elections and
the desperate mood which the results reflect. I happen to think that voting for
UKIP or, much worse, the BNP, is a cop- out. These parties are not going to
govern Britain, thank heaven, and do not deserve to do so.

Now seems a moment for us, as voters, to act responsibly, even if our political
masters do not, and to make a realistic choice. But it is easy to sympathise
with the anger and frustration which has caused normally sensible people to back
extremist political groups.

It is no good hoping for any sort of revival of the Labour Government. This ship
of the dead will drift onward, holed in 1,000 places, until the waves finally
engulf Brown on the bridge, still reciting robotically: 'I shall not walk away.'

FAILING

At last night's party meeting Labour MPs appear to have queued for tickets for
their party's last cruise in power, presumably hoping for a reward in the
afterlife which they will certainly not get from the electorate.

Only Lord Mandelson -- Rasputin, as his friends call him -- will swim smiling
from the wreck, to make a fortune in European business.

We must pin our hopes on the Tories now. They will almost certainly form
Britain's next government, after more wasted months of paralysis and
incompetence. But David Cameron's party has almost as much to learn from these
elections as does Labour.

Most voters feel that they have little notion of what the Conservatives will do
if they achieve office, little faith that they will tackle effectively the
things which matter to real people: social justice for the majority, not
minorities; rebuilding Britain's identity as well as selfbelief; halting state
employees' bonanza at taxpayers' expense; fitting Britain to earn its living in
the 21st century.

Democracy works only when those who cast their votes believe that electoral
outcomes will, in some degree at least, fulfil their hopes and assuage their
fears.

In this, the European result shows that politicians, above all in Britain, are
failing.

Unless the big parties mend their ways, respond to popular aspirations and
anxieties as today they do not, in the years ahead we shall have much more to
fear from the lunatic fringe groups, last resort of disaffected and embittered
electorates.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

BROWN LIVES TO FIGHT ANOTHER DAY

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN AND TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 1032 words


I CAN CHANGE MY WAYS, HE TELLS HIS MPS AFTER PARTY'S POLLS MELTDOWN

THE Prime Minister last night saw off a concerted attempt to make him quit by
promising to change his leadership style.

In an unprecedented humiliation for a serving Premier, several former ministers
demanded his head at a make-orbreak meeting of Labour MPs.

They said Gordon Brown was leading the party to disaster after it suffered its
worst poll results since 1910, gaining just 15 per cent of the vote in the
European elections.

But former Labour leader Lord Kinnock rode to the Prime Minister's rescue,
telling MPs that disunity would cost the party the next General Election.

The majority of MPs gave Mr Brown their support after he made an emotional
pledge to change the way he governs.

The meeting followed a day of turmoil at Westminster which saw an eighth
ministerial resignation.

As she left the Government, Environment Minister Jane Kennedy accused Mr Brown
of 'ruling by smear'.

There was also more bad news from the European elections, where there was a 12
per cent swing to the Conservatives compared with 2005. If that result were
replicated in a General Election, a quarter of the Cabinet would lose their
seats ñ including Chancellor Alistair Darling, Justice Secretary Jack Straw and
Children's Secretary Ed Balls.

With all the votes counted, Labour was reduced to a mere rump across vast
swathes of the country, winning just 15.8 per cent of the vote.

There was also widespread horror that the collapse in support allowed the
neo-fascist BNP to win two seats, even though they polled fewer votes than in
2004.

At the meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party yesterday, former Home
Secretary Charles Clarke told the Prime Minister that he must resign.

He was joined by senior MPs Fiona Mac-Taggart, Meg Munn, Tom Harris, Siobhain
McDonagh and Barry Sheerman, who called for a secret ballot of MPs to test the
true level of support for Mr Brown.

Former minister Frank Field sacrificed his ambition to be the next Commons
Speaker by also demanding that the Prime Minister step down. He warned that
there was no chance of Labour winning the next election with Mr Brown as its
leader.

The former welfare minister said that the party's current standing was
'pitiful'.

Mr Field also accused supporters of Mr Brown of trying to 'terrorise' Labour MPs
out of deposing him by falsely claiming his successor would be forced to hold an
immediate election - in which many MPs would lose their seats.

At the meeting, Mr Brown admitted that he needed to be more humble. 'I have my
strengths and I have my weaknesses,' he said.

The Prime Minister acknowledged he needed to 'use the talents of everyone.. to
act in a more collective way... to consult more'.

But making it clear he was going nowhere, he added: 'We solve the problem not by
walking away, but by facing it and doing something about it. I'm not making a
plea for unity. I am making an argument for unity.'

Mr Brown is promising an inquiry into the Iraq War and a slowdown on plans to
privatise the Royal Mail in an attempt to win over wavering backbenchers.

Last night loyal ministers rushed to praise his performance and insist that the
plot to oust him was 'dead and buried'.

Mr Brown's close ally, Mr Balls, said: 'It's not the applause at the beginning
that matters, it's the applause at the end - and the applause at the end was
louder and more resounding. There is no mood to change our leader.'

Former home secretary David Blunkett told the meeting it was time for the
dissenters to 'put up or shut up'.

But frustrated rebels insisted the Prime Minister was 'on probation' and
threatened to strike again at the party's autumn conference if he failed to pull
the party back from the brink of electoral wipeout.

And in a sign that the battle is not over, former minister Stephen Byers left
the meeting to launch a devastating attack on the Prime Minister.

'We need a leader who regards Labour Party members as assets to be valued,' he
told activists. 'A leader who sees Labour MPs as colleagues to be worked with
and not threats to be briefed against. Gordon Brown is not that leader.'

Shadow Chancellor George Osborne will today claim that political instability is
affecting the international markets' view of Britain.

'It's not just Gordon Brown's job that is at stake in this Labour civil war, but
the jobs of thousands of British people,' he said. 'Labour's leadership crisis
is bad for the country and bad for the economy.'

CAMERON JUBILATION AS TORIES COME TOP OF THE POLLS

DESPITE a 'historic' victory in Wales the Tories failed to make a major
breakthrough in the rest of the UK.

David Cameron was jubilant after the Conservatives topped the polls in the
principality for the first time, winning a 21.2 per cent share of the vote.

Labour lost an MEP in Wales as their vote plummeted by a whopping 12.2 per cent
to just 20.3 per cent, pushing them into second.

Mr Cameron declared he was 'very pleased' with his party's showing in the
European elections as they finished in first place with 27.7 per cent of votes.

The Tories gained a European Parliament seat in the South West, giving them 25
MEPs, and shored up support in the East Midlands. But there was disappointment
that they failed to make the huge leap forward traditionally needed by a party
on the brink of sweeping into Downing Street at a General Election.

The Conservatives saw their share of the vote increase by just 1 per cent on
2004. Only three months ago Tory strategists were predicting the party could hit
43 per cent.

It suggested that voters who deserted Labour in protest at their unhappiness
with the Government were switching to fringe parties such as UKIP, indicating
they had not been won over by Mr Cameron.

But party sources expressed relief that the Tories had not gone backwards,
suggesting they had not been badly tainted by the MPs' expenses scandal.

Mr Cameron said: 'I am very pleased. Now what we need is obviously, the next
election should be a general election.'

Tory Party chairman Eric Pickles expressed concern that BNP had made headway. He
said: 'What has essentially happened is that there has been a retreat
particularly by Labour but we haven't been able to fill that particular vacuum.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

THIS PROVES WE'RE NO MFLASH IN THE PAN, SAY RUNNERS-UP UKIP

BYLINE: BY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 354 words


THE UK Independence Party powered into second place in the European elections
after finally shedding the damaging image of being the 'BNP in suits', its
leader said last night.

Nigel Farage said UKIP, which capitalised on disgruntlement with the mainstream
parties, was no longer tainted with the misleading tag they were a 'middle-class
version of the BNP'.

The eurosceptic party scooped

16.5 per cent of the vote, leaving it with 13 seats in the European Parliament -
the same number as Labour, who were pushed back into third place.

Gordon Brown's party polled just

15.7 per cent as voters expressed anger at an increasingly unpopular Government
and the MPs' expenses scandal. But disaffection with Labour did not translate
into votes for the Tories and the Liberal Democrats - leaving UKIP to mop up
tens of thousands.

Mr Farage said: 'For some time we were seen as a middle-class version of the
BNP, but these results show that is not how people see us now. The party has
grown up over the past few years and is more trusted. I don't believe anybody
sees us as the BNP in suits any more.'

Jubilant Mr Farage said UKIP's success proved that the party was no flash in the
pan.

He also brushed off suggestions that his party's triumph was a result of
Labour's unpopularity rather than voter enthusiasm for UKIP.

Mr Farage said: 'According to all the experts, this is the second fluke in a row
that we have produced.

'People vote for us because they agree with us. They agree with us that we
should be friendly with Europe, trade with Europe, be good neighbours, but not
have our laws made there.

'We have managed to move on from a result five years ago that was considered to
be the high water mark. We are up on those elections. We have done extremely
well. We have come second nationally. We are very happy people.'

UKIP hopes to field 500 candidates at the next General Election.

WHAT UKIP WANT

BRITAIN TO WITHDRAW FROM THE EUROPEAN UNION

BRITISH JOBS FOR BRITISH WORKERS

INCREASED TRADE WITH COMMONWEALTH AND REST OF THE WORLD

AN END TO UNLIMITED IMMIGRATION

TO REGAIN CONTROL OF FARMING AND FISHERIES POLICIES

A REFERENDUM ON EU CONSTITUTION

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

LIB DEMS;
Fourth place a;
bad blow;
for Clegg

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; LABOUR IN TURMOIL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 301  words


NICK CLEGG, the Liberal Democrat leader, was bitterly disappointed by his
party's failure to exploit the Labour Party's disastrous result.

The Lib Dems had entered the final week of campaigning hoping to be in close
competition for second place.

However, they were forced into fourth place behind Labour even though Gordon
Brown had presided over his party's collapse in the polls.

Mr Clegg saw his party's share of the vote fall by one per cent to 13.7 per
cent.

The Lib Dems, the most pro-European of the major parties, suffered a classic
squeeze as people who wanted to register a protest vote against the Tories or
Labour went elsewhere.

The Lib Dems were badly hit by the Greens whose vote share improved more than
two per cent to 8.65 per cent.

They even fell back in their rural south-west heartland coming third behind the
Tories and Ukip.

The decline in the South-West, where the party has more than a dozen MPs, has
caused alarm at Lib Dem headquarters. It comes after the county council
elections saw the Tories make gains in Devon, Cornwall and Somerset.

One senior Lib Dem MP said: "We were out-campaigned by the Conservatives.

"We used to be better at it than them but they targeted it very well. It is
going to be an important wake-up call for all our MPs in the South-West. We have
a real fight on our hands.

"Nick Clegg has done well, particularly on the expenses in the last few weeks,
so this is a setback for him.

"It would have been a huge boost to come second but we are gutted to have been
behind Labour.''

Mr Clegg conceded that his party could have done better. He said: "We held our
own. Would I have liked to have done better? Yes, of course, but given the
volatile nature of the elections it was a solid result.''

He said that the party's campaign had been overshadowed by the expenses scandal.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

How Labour let the BNP flex its muscles;
An openly racist party has won seats for the first time in a nationwide
election, thanks to the collapse of the traditional vote in working-class
strongholds, says Philip Johnston

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1394  words


The smirk on Nick Griffin's face as he walked on to the platform at Manchester
town hall in the early hours of yesterday morning said it all. The BNP had
arrived. For the first time in a nationwide election, the voters of the United
Kingdom had returned candidates from an avowedly racist political party.

Our cosy complacency that imagined that only Continental Europeans elect
fascists to parliament was shattered. A collective wail of middle-class angst
went up from mainstream party leaders: what have we done? Liam Fox, the Tory
shadow cabinet member, said: "All politicians should be asking themselves 'how
did we allow this to happen?' ''

The hostility engendered by Griffin's victory was palpable: as he took his place
on the stage, giving a Churchillian "V for Victory'' salute, his opponents all
walked off. But we cannot keep walking away from the BNP. They need to be
tackled head on. It is because the mainstream parties, Labour in particular,
have failed so comprehensively to address any of the issues exploited by Griffin
and his followers that they have been able to win two seats in the European
parliament (under a PR system whose proponents might now think twice about
pursuing for Westminster).

Harriet Harman, Labour's blue-stocking deputy leader, said: "It's a terrible
thing that we've now got representing Britain in the European parliament a party
that is a racist party, a party that doesn't believe black people should even be
allowed to join this party. What extremist, far right, racist parties like the
British National Party do is exploit people's fears and if people are worried
about their future they turn inwards.''

But whose fault is that? This has not happened in a political vacuum. It was the
collapse of Labour's vote in areas it considered its fiefdom that let in the
BNP. After 12 years in power, Miss Harman cannot try to pass the buck. Most
galling of all is that the British taxpayer will now fund the BNP through the
generous salaries and allowances for which it qualifies in the European
parliament.

But it is important to put this into context. Britain did not wake up yesterday
to find itself in the grip of some neo-Nazi nightmare. The BNP remains a
marginal fringe party whose big talk is in inverse proportion to its pitiful
levels of support in the country at large. Nationally, it achieved just six per
cent of the vote.

In the Yorkshire and Humberside region, where the BNP took one of the six
Euro-seats, it actually got fewer votes than it did five years ago. In the North
West, where Griffin was victorious, the BNP poured people and resources into the
campaign to build upon a relatively strong local base in towns such as Burnley.

This was not a national success for the BNP. In London, for instance, it hardly
got a look in. Had there been a first-past-the-post contest, as there used to be
for Europe and still is for the House of Commons, the BNP would not have won a
seat. None the less, 943,000 people voted for the party so it cannot be ignored
nor derided, and it would be dangerous to do so.

Its success is a direct result of the failure of mainstream parties, notably
Labour, which traditionally represents the areas where the BNP is strongest.
White, working-class voters in the North and elsewhere feel they have been
abandoned: they feel discriminated against, their children perform worst in
school, they believe immigrants are taking their jobs and that no one takes any
notice of them.

In his acceptance speech, Griffin said he wasn't going to talk about immigration
since everyone knew where he stood on the issue; he was more interested in
talking about the manner in which public assets had been privatised. As the
BNP's manifesto makes plain, it is in favour of nationalisation, subsidy, higher
taxes, protectionism - traditionally the Labour Party's territory.

The characteristics of those

who voted BNP come out clearly in a survey of more than 30,000 voters conducted
by YouGov for Channel 4 News.

BNP voters tend to be male, working class and young. In particular, they are
marked out by a sense of insecurity over money and prospects. Just 25 per cent
say they have enough money on which to live comfortably (compared with 47 per
cent of voters generally), and only 19 per cent are "confident that my family
will have the opportunities to prosper in the years ahead'', a level of hope far
below that felt generally.

These are people who have been deserted or taken for granted by the party they
normally support, Labour. There is a self-pitying resentment that is easily
exploited by extremists because the other parties no longer have anyone in their
ranks who recognises or sympathises with their anxieties.

Whereas the intellectual Left (think George Orwell in Keep the Aspidistra
Flying) once patronised or mythologised the white working class, for years now
they have been considered an embarrassment, a low-achieving, boorish, poorly
educated affront to the sensibilities of the "progressive'' elite that preached
the virtues of multi-culturalism, promoted mass immigration and makes up much of
the political establishment, including the modern Labour Party.

The YouGov poll found that nearly half of BNP voters come from traditional
Labour backgrounds. Two thirds of respondents thought Labour used to care for
the concerns of people like them; but only 19 per cent think it does so
nowadays. The issue they regard as most important by a long way (87 per cent of
BNP voters) is the one that mainstream politicians refused to talk about for
decades: immigration.

Rightly or wrongly, this group of voters believes that the people who suffer
most discrimination in modern Britain are "white people''. This is the response
of 77 per cent of BNP supporters; but it is also the view of 40 per cent of
voters overall. They don't like the way that Muslim extremists appear to sound
off with impunity while anyone defending their country's heritage and traditions
is denounced by the progressives as a fringe loony. Hence the BNP's heavy
reliance on wartime imagery to appeal to this nostalgic sense of a lost past.

Peter Kellner, YouGov's chief pollster, says: "Ukip and BNP voters occupy one
end of a broad social spectrum: in some ways their views are like those of many
other voters, only more intense, rather than having utterly different views.
Their support is the visible bit of a much larger iceberg of public
alienation.''

But this is not a racist country, even if it has people with racist opinions.
With the exception of BNP voters, most people think that non-white Britons born
in the UK are just as British as white citizens, a view held by 71 per cent of
the general public but only 35 per cent of BNP voters. It is enough, however,
for Griffin and his party to build on. When asked about his party's racist
attitudes, the BNP leader said on the BBC: "There's a huge amount of racism in
this country. Overwhelmingly it is directed towards the indigenous British
majority, which is one reason we've done so well in these elections.''

Figures published at the weekend showed that boys from white, working-class
backgrounds are at the bottom of the educational heap, behind Pakistani,
Bangladeshi, Indian, black Caribbean, black African and Chinese children, as
well as girls from all ethnic backgrounds. The research, produced for the
Department for Children, Schools and Families, found that white boys had lost
sight of the connection between doing well at school and their future success.

Prof Alan Smithers, director of the Centre for Education Research at Buckingham
University, said: "They think if they are not going to go to university there's
not much point in them going to school.'' They then get pushed further to the
margins by better-qualified people who take the best jobs.

After more than 10 years of a Labour government that came to power pledging to
close the wealth gap and bridge the north-south divide, these differences are
wider than ever, despite the longest period of growth in modern times. A recent
report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development shows
that economic performance in Britain is more unbalanced than in any of the 19
countries examined. Despite a significant increase in wealth for many during the
boom years, large tracts of the country were left behind.

The people who voted BNP are those who were never invited to the party.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

City sees revival of Arthurian legend

SECTION: CITY; City Diary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 171  words


YOU might have thought that the European elections saw Labour get a sound
thrashing from, well, everybody, everywhere. But it seems there is a glimmer of
hope for Gordon Brown in the City of London.

OK, so they still got trounced by the Conservatives (678 votes) and Liberal
Democrats (399), but Diary notes that Labour's 336 supporters meant it gained a
respectable third place, seeing off the Greens (305) and UKIP (185). It's a
result that the Prime Minister must have wished to have seen repeated.

But it's the lower orders that are more interesting. Jury Team, the movement set
up by Sir Paul Judge, a millionaire Conservative donor and former chairman of
Premier Foods, to boost support for individual candidates, only won the backing
of 26 voters.

But the real shock was that the Socialist Labour Party (leader Arthur Scargill)
managed to win 22 votes. Who would have thought that the Square Mile would
harbour supporters of a political organisation seemingly at odds with its main
industry? Right on, brothers and sisters!

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Bullied into submission;
* Plot against Brown foiled after allegations of intimidation of MPs;
* Eleventh minister goes in a week as she refuses to take loyalty test

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190  words


A PLOT to oust Gordon Brown ended in failure last night as the Prime Minister's
allies were accused of using scare tactics and smears to terrorise Labour MPs
and quell the rebellion.

Despite Labour's worst showing in an election for almost 100 years, Mr Brown was
able to face down his critics at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party
(PLP) - with the rebels having failed to get the 50 signatories they wanted for
a letter calling on him to quit.

A series of MPs, including former ministers, confronted the Prime Minister and
told him to stand aside, but Mr Brown insisted again he would not be "walking
away'' and the meeting ended with him having won a stay of execution.

However, those Labour MPs opposed to Mr Brown's leadership accused Downing
Street of using smears, anonymous briefings, intimidation and threats to put
down the coup.

Some MPs in marginal seats said they had been threatened with a withdrawal of
support for their election campaigns if they spoke out against Mr Brown. Some
said they were told that ministerial visits and other PR opportunities could be
withheld.

With only 15 per cent of voters having backed Labour in the European elections,
the party's MPs were told by the Prime Minister's allies that there would be an
immediate general election - with potentially catastrophic results - if they
replaced him as leader.

However, Mr Brown's opponents claim that allowing him to limp on will mean
electoral oblivion if the European results are reproduced at the next general
election.

Frank Field, the former Labour minister, suggested Mr Brown's aides had tried to
"terrorise'' MPs into backing him.

"Unless something changes significantly, these results would be reproduced at a
general election,'' he said.

"Labour cannot win with the present Prime Minister. I was one of seven who would
not support his coronation after Tony Blair was shoehorned out of No 10, but
even I did not think a Brown administration would be as inept as this one.

"The Brownites are attempting to terrorise Labour MPs into inaction. If they
succeed, then we deserve our fate.''

In an attempt to placate the rebels, Mr Brown, who was greeted with applause as
he arrived at the PLP meeting, opened on a humble note, telling his critics: "I
have my strengths and I have my weaknesses. There are some things I do well,
some not so well. I have learned that you have to keep learning. You solve the
problem not by walking away.''

He added: "I'm not making a plea for unity, I'm making an argument for unity.''

However, Mr Field's criticisms of Mr Brown were echoed by Jane Kennedy, the
farming minister, who yesterday became the eleventh minister to resign or be
sacked in the past week after a spat with No 10 over whether she would remain
loyal to the Prime Minister.

"I wasn't able to give that assurance and so I have not been reappointed,'' she
said. "That's the fact of what happened. I wasn't able to give that assurance
because I have been unhappy about smears against colleagues, about undermining
of colleagues and friends by No 10.''

Asked whether that behaviour was from Mr Brown himself or those around him, she
said: "I can't distinguish between the two and in my view it's how politics is
driven forward by Gordon and the people around him. It really gets me very
angry.''

Last night, Stephen Byers, the former Cabinet minister, spoke out to call for
the Prime Minister's resignation, saying that a man who resorted to smearing his
own colleagues and acted with timidity and indecision in a crisis was not fit to
lead the country.

An avowed Blairite and long-time critic of Mr Brown, he added: "We need a leader
who regards Labour Party members as assets to be valued. A leader who sees
Labour MPs as colleagues to be worked with and not threats to be briefed
against.

"We need someone who can voice the concerns of the British people and identify
with their needs.

"We need a leader who can win for Labour at the next general election and not
take us to a humiliating defeat. Gordon Brown is not that leader.''

The PLP meeting came after Labour suffered humiliation in the European
elections, which saw:

* The party beaten into third place behind the UK Independence Party (Ukip) in
the share of the vote, polling just 15.7 per cent, and as low as 8 per cent in
one region;

* Labour failing to win the popular vote in Wales for the first time since 1918,
and a crushing defeat at the hands of the SNP in Scotland;

* A collapse in its support in the North that allowed the British National Party
to win its first seats in the European Parliament.

It had been expected that the results, described by Labour itself as "dismal'',
could provide the impetus for a coup against the Prime Minister to succeed.
However, with only Mrs Kennedy quitting the Government ranks yesterday as Mr
Brown continued his ministerial reshuffle, the plot faltered.

The rebels did not appear to have a settled plan and ministers and MPs anxious
for Mr Brown to go did not seem to act in concert.

Peter Hain, the new Welsh Secretary, claimed after the meeting: "That is it.
People should now realise Gordon is

not going anywhere. He answered those questions tonight.''

However, the meeting was far from plain sailing for the Prime Minister as a
series of his MPs called, face to face, for his departure.

Among those who spoke out were Charles Clarke, the former home secretary, Tom
Harris, a former transport minister, and Fiona Mactaggart, another former
minister.

Barry Sheerman, the chairman of the Commons schools committee, also demanded Mr
Brown should step down.

He also asked Tony Lloyd, the PLP chairman, to hold a secret ballot of MPs on Mr
Brown's leadership.

Mr Lloyd replied that there was nothing in the party's standing orders about a
secret ballot, meaning he would have to consult the rule book and officials on
the issue. Labour sources later insisted there was "no chance'' of a ballot.

Mr Harris said: "If Gordon and his supporters are suggesting that after winning
15 per cent that the only thing we have to worry about is unity, it is baffling.
I don't think he will lead the party into the next election but I don't see him
going in the near future.''

David Cameron was celebrating yesterday after beating Labour in Wales for the
first time since the First World War. Speaking to supporters in Cardiff, the
Tory leader said: "Not since the time of Lloyd George has a party other than
Labour won in Wales and today it is the Conservative Party.''

Rhodri Morgan, the First Minister of Wales, said Welsh Labour suffered from a
"toxic combination'' of government disunity, the controversy over MPs' expenses
and the impact of the recession.

"Until we solve those three problems then the tide will continue to run against
us.''

Last night, it was suggested that if Alan Johnson replaced Mr Brown, the move
would improve Labour's fortunes enough to deny the Tories an overall majority at
the next general election, according to a ComRes poll for The Independent.

But Mrs Kennedy said she feared Mr Brown would go on "to the bitter end of the
Labour Party. I think we are now in such a serious position that we really are
fighting for the future of the party.''

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Tories take heart from victory despite protest votes for Ukip

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; LABOUR IN TURMOIL ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447  words


DAVID CAMERON'S victory celebrations were tempered by the fact that the
Conservative vote was badly hit by defections to Ukip.

The Tories topped the share of the popular vote at 27.7 per cent, but the party
was up only one percentage point on 2004.

It was sharply down on the 36 per cent the party scored when William Hague was
leader in 1999. He then led the Tories to defeat in the 2001 general election.

The Conservatives were left with 25 MEPs, which is the biggest British grouping.

Despite the failure to make advances in their share of the vote, or break
through the 30 per cent barrier, there was quiet satisfaction at Conservative
Party headquarters. Strategists had been braced for a large protest vote to Ukip
because of the expenses scandal. They took heart from the fact that theirs was
the only party of the big five to increase their share of the vote on 2004,
albeit slightly.

Mr Cameron knows that in a general election many traditional Tory supporters,
who switched to Ukip in the European poll, will come back.

The victory in Wales, where the party topped the poll for the first time since
1931, was unexpected and more than compensated for any disappointment over the
share of the vote. The Tories came first in 17 Welsh parliamentary
constituencies, including Labour-held seats such as Alyn and Deeside and
Wrexham.

The Conservatives won 21.2 per cent of the vote, up 1.8 per cent, while Labour
trailed home with 20.3 per cent, down 12.2 per cent.

In Scotland the Tories polled 16.8 per cent of the vote, behind SNP and Labour.

George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, said: "I think it was a pretty successful
result for us. Combined with the local elections, we have won in parts of the
country where we have not won for years.

"We have topped the poll in Wales.

"In the local elections we did well in Lancashire and the Midlands and in the
West Country. We have a massive lead over the Labour Party, our principal
rivals, at the next general election and we have picked up MEP seats.''

Mr Osborne added: "So, given all the problems all the major parties have had on
expenses, the fact that unlike Labour and the Liberal Democrats - who both saw
their vote share fall - we saw our vote share increase, I think it is something
we can take some satisfaction from.''

Tim Montgomerie, from Conservativehome.com, the Tory blog, said: "The European
election results were messy but the Tory high command is genuinely thrilled with
the results in the local government elections.

"There is no complacency at Conservative headquarters but the collapse of
Labour's activist base and the success of the Tory campaigning machine is giving
them increasing hope for the general election.''

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Analysis;
Why two-party system is on its way out

BYLINE: Tony Travers Professor at LSE

SECTION: NEWS; LABOUR IN TURMOIL ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 488  words


IN THE 1951 general election, the Conservative and Labour parties jointly
received just under 97 per cent of the votes.

But in the European election results declared on Sunday, the equivalent figure
was under 44 per cent, down from 49 in 2004. Britain's "two-party system'' is
ebbing away.

The share of the vote won by the Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats
together has slumped from almost 96 per cent in the 1987 general election to 57
per cent in this year's Euro poll.

Of course, Euro elections are fought using a proportional representation
electoral system [PR], while Parliament still uses first-past-the-post. PR
invites electors to vote in a more plural way and, against the backdrop of the
Parliamentary expenses debacle, has this year allowed voters to vent their anger
with the major parties.

The 44 per cent overall vote for Labour and the Tories is the lowest in any
national election since 1945. But even in Westminster elections, the two-and-a
half major parties are under threat. In 2005, the "others'', who exclude the
Liberal Democrats, exceeded 10 per cent. This will undoubtedly rise at the next
general election.

The Euro results saw the Labour vote fragment into pieces that were inherited by
the Greens, Ukip, the BNP, English Democrats, the Christian Party, the Socialist
Labour Party, No2EU and others. Fifteen parties won 0.5 per cent of the vote or
more. Voters used the PR voting system to express, simultaneously, aggravation
with the Government while providing a hint about what they might do if the
country moved to PR for local elections in England and Wales and for Parliament.

Some of the Labour defectors will return to the fold for Westminster elections.
But others will get used to casting votes in a less tribal way. Changed
perceptions of "class'' and less ideologically based political parties within
Britain have weakened the grasp of the Labour and Conservative parties.

Because their memberships are now so much smaller than in the past, the major
parties will find it hard to rebuild their base. Activism has long been in
decline. As successive governments have weakened local government, there is less
of a political culture beyond Westminster than there used to be. In a country as
centralised as Britain, people may well start to support exotic parties in an
attempt to get noticed inside the bunkers of Whitehall.

The European elections provide a flavour of the electoral consequences of the
fragmentation and individualism that has evolved in Britain in recent decades.
Given the chance, people will increasingly experiment with new political
parties. PR, for good or for ill, encourages such experimentation.

Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg will face a challenge to stop the
continuing advance of minority parties and "others''. A genie is out of a
bottle.

Prof Tony Travers is a professor within the government department at the London
School of Economics

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

His enemies want him dead, but Brown is still Labour's only hope;
The frightened and flawed Prime Minister must now regain control of his party -
and the country, says;
Mary Riddell

BYLINE: Mary Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1116  words


Gordon Brown was still reshuffling ministers when the first, ominous European
results trickled in. Unable to watch the final of The Apprentice, in which his
ghastly new "enterprise tsar'', Sir Alan Sugar, chose a winner, Mr Brown asked
for a transcript to be delivered to Number 10 yesterday morning.

No doubt, the rebels in the Parliamentary Labour Party were similarly hooked.
They want a new leader, and many long to tell Alan Johnson: "You're hired.''
While Sugar's finalists, Kate and Yasmina, had to design a box of chocolates,
nothing so arduous is planned for Mr Johnson. In his promoters' dreams, he will
be wafted into Number 10 before you can cry "Choc d'Amour'' (the runner-up's
confection), while Mr Brown is made to swallow Labour's own-brand strychnine
truffles.

Now, with the pantomime of last week over, the tragedy begins. When Nick Griffin
of the BNP declared a victory for "freedom, truth and justice'', a shadow fell
across democracy. Previously, Mr Brown has been cast as a Shakespearian figure,
but this is no longer about one man's potential nemesis. Nor is the story just
about the future of the Labour Party, at its lowest post-war ebb and in danger
of annihilation. It concerns a Britain where isolationism is a badge of glory
and racism screams its name with pride.

Yesterday's sinister outsiders are today's establishment figures, off to claim
their  pounds 80,443 salary at Brussels, plus expenses unimaginable to the
former Labour voters who turned to them in desperation. Shame on Hazel Blears,
who walked out of government wearing her silly badge, on the eve of the
elections that handed cheap victories to the BNP. She aimed to "rock the boat'',
and she succeeded.

Mr Brown, though pessimistic, had not expected to sink to 16 per cent of the
vote. He thought the BNP would get one seat, not two, and his only cold comforts
- beating the Lib Dems, and the Tories' scant advance - were cancelled out by
coming third to Ukip.

Europe matters. The EU is far from perfect, but our greatest problems - climate
change, terror, migration, international security, protectionism - can only be
solved collectively. David Cameron, cosying up to potential Euro-allies almost
as repulsive as the BNP, has nothing to offer. If Labour cannot make the case
for Europe, then what, apart from free bath plugs, is power for?

While Mr Brown was cheered into last night's PLP meeting, his enemies still hope
that Labour's doom-struck Hamlet will shuffle off this mortal coil.

No outsider knows the human breaking point, but Mr Brown - though desolate at
the BNP advance - still thinks himself unshiftable. On the eve of becoming Prime
Minister, he told me: "If I can't make a difference, I shall move on. If there
came a time when it was right to do so, it wouldn't particularly worry me.
People think of me as a career politician, but I'm not. I'd rather do something
useful.''

If Mr Brown were as disastrous as his critics say, he should be gone already.
The irony is that no other leader could have led Britain so skilfully through
financial crisis. Without him, the banks might have collapsed, and the G20 would
never have happened. His work on development ensured that thousands of children
did not starve and did not die because the rich world deemed them worthless.

Yes, he has many flaws, any one of which might still prove fatal. He is a
ditherer whose tendency to dump good ideas and stick with bad ones has created a
policy vacuum. He is prone to surround himself with too many
character-destroying Visigoths and too few women. If Caroline Flint is to be
believed, Hagar the Horrible could have given Mr Brown a masterclass in
feminism.

Other female MPs are, however, appalled by her behaviour. "It's galling to hear
him portrayed as a misogynist by her,'' says one. Others report that party
activists who worked to keep out the far-Right are enraged by the
"self-indulgence'' of Flint, Blears and James Purnell. At Number 10, someone
close to the PM says he was weary of "struggling with [Cabinet] people who
didn't really want to join in'' and is determined to harness the grassroots rage
to Labour's benefit. But even Brown's new Cabinet team is far from certain about
what happens next. "There's a big mood for him to go,'' says a senior minister.
"The revolt is seen as a Blairite plot, but it goes much further and deeper.
Sections of the party are fed up to the back teeth.'' This minister thinks the
rebellion has burnt out, while adding: "If I'm wrong, he's gone.''

Labour backbenchers are panic-stricken, volatile, unsure. Assuming Mr Brown
prevails, he will need to do more in the next days than back-pedal on Royal Mail
reform, call an inquiry into the Iraq war, launch constitutional reform and
unveil a national plan detailing the future shape and funding of public
services. He should also dump Trident and ID cards, and he just might dare.
"Everything is under consideration,'' says a Downing Street insider.

Mr Brown is now truly frightened. While determined to stay, he acknowledges that
he has failed to get his policies right or to sell them well. If he is careful,
the weakness that forced him to leave a good Chancellor and Foreign Secretary in
their posts may prove a strength. A less imperious and autocratic Mr Brown could
earn the trust of colleagues, which, in turn, is vital to regaining voters'
faith. "He knows disunity is fatal,'' says a friend.

Westminster has turned into Psychoville. While Mr Brown must take blame for the
current horrors, so must a Labour hierarchy whose defeatism and wrangling has
persuaded some citizens to embrace the BNP's jackboot patriotism.

The rebels of the Parliamentary Labour Party should now acknowledge their folly.
Mr Brown is, for all his flaws, the pre-eminent figure in his party. There is
currently no alternative candidate and no other scenario but extinction. With
good policies and the economy on a rapid upturn, he may yet turn his battered
party round.

Like Hamlet, Mr Brown will be asking himself whether he can bear "the pangs of
despised love, the law's delay, the insolence of office and the spurns''. His
answer, as it has always been, is yes. Now it is for the rebels to decide. Even
if they cannot stage a political execution, they can murder him with the slow
poison of discontent.

Here's why they should stop and Gordon Brown should stay: as of Sunday night,
there is more at stake than a prime minister's fate. Great political movements
have died before, and they may do so again. Great countries have been tainted by
hate and fascism. Labour and British democracy are standing on the frontier of
"the undiscover'd country from whose bourn no traveller returns''. This is the
final chance to turn away.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

LABOUR;
Deserting voters inflict crushing defeat on Labour;
Party humiliated in its heartlands and pushed into fifth place in some areas,
reports James Kirkup

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; LABOUR IN TURMOIL ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 587  words


LABOUR suffered one of the worst defeats in its history in the European
elections as nearly 1.5 million of its previous backers refused to turn out for
Gordon Brown's party.

The full scale of the electoral disaster became clear with the final results,
published in the early hours of yesterday morning.

Third overall behind the Tories and the UK Independence Party, Labour was
defeated in many of its traditional heartlands, and beaten into fourth and even
fifth place in many parts of the country.

Labour took 15.7 per cent of the votes cast, almost seven percentage points down
on the last European election in 2004 which, until now, was Labour's worst
result in a national poll since 1910.

Turnout was expected to be around 34 per cent, four points down on 2004.
Detailed analysis of the figures suggests that the majority of previous voters
who stayed at home this time were Labour supporters.

In 2004, Labour got 3,718,000 votes. This year, it was 2,381,000. Overall,
1,337,000 voters abandoned Gordon Brown's party.

By contrast, the total votes cast for the Conservatives was 4,198,394, down from
4,397,000 four years ago, a drop of less than 200,000. Ukip lost 150,000 votes,
the Lib Dems 372,000.

In perhaps the most symbolic defeat, Labour failed to finish first in Wales,
coming second behind the Conservatives. It was the first time the Tories have
topped a national poll in Wales, and the first time Labour has failed to do so
since 1918.

David Cameron, the Tory leader, hailed that result yesterday, saying: "Not since
the time of Lloyd George has a party other than Labour won in Wales and today it
is the Conservative Party.''

Labour also finished second in Scotland, beaten by the Scottish National Party.

It was only the second time Labour has failed to come first in Scottish voting
for more than 50 years. In all, the SNP secured 29.1 per cent of Scottish votes,
with Labour on 20.8 per cent.

In several Scottish constituencies held by Labour MPs, the SNP easily polled
more votes than Labour. They included Edinburgh South West, the seat of Alistair
Darling, the Chancellor. In East Renfrewshire, the seat of Jim Murphy, the
Scottish Secretary, Labour came third.

Mr Darling said last night: "People felt disillusioned with us and didn't vote
for us. That's our fault. We should be able to inspire confidence.

"The Government needs to do far better. We need to clearly set out what we are
for, our vision for the country and our purpose for being in government.''

In Glasgow, where Labour shortly faces a by-election in the seat of Michael
Martin, the departing Commons Speaker, Labour only just managed to beat the SNP,
by 30.7 per cent to 27.9 per cent.

Another result that spread fear among Labour MP was in the West Midlands, where
many of the marginal seats that will decide the next general election are
located. There, the Labour vote fell to 17 per cent and the party came third.

In two English regions, the South East and the South West, Labour finished
fifth, beaten by the Lib Dems and even the Greens. In the South West, Labour
took only 7.7 per cent of the vote, losing its last MEP in the region. In the
East of England, Labour came fourth with 10.5 per cent.

The only region where Labour came top was the North East. Even there, its 25 per
cent share of the vote was down 9.1 per cent from 2004.

Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, put the results down to anger at MPs'
expenses and the disclosures made by The Daily Telegraph. "I know people are
blazing angry with us at the moment,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

OH GORD! PARTY'S WIPEOUT WORST IN 100 YRS

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 380 words


BATTERED Labour were at their lowest point in 100 years last night after a
humiliating rout in the European elections.

The party received a measly 15.7% of the vote, suffering their worst national
drubbing since the 1910 general election, when the leader was George Nicoll
Barnes and their vote share was just 7%.

It was the worst performance by a governing party in a national election since
the Liberals were wiped out in 1918 with just 15.3% of the vote.

Labour lost fi ve of their 18 MEPs and their share of the vote slumped by a
massive 6.9%.

They were shoved into third place as more people voted for the UK Independence
Party. UKIP - until yesterday considered a fringe party - took 16.5% of the
votes and like Labour now has 13 MEPs.

In Wales, Labour came second to the Tories for the first time since 1918.

In Scotland, Labour came second to the Scottish Nationalists after losing 5.6%
of their vote and the SNP gaining 9.4%.

In the South-East it was even worse. The party ended up fi fth behind the
Conservatives, UKIP, Liberal Democrats and Greens.

The party also came fifth in the South-West, losing their only MEP there.

Senior Labour fi gures called the results a "disaster" but blamed the recession
and the expenses scandal.

However the Tories did not seem to suffer badly from the row. They gained one
seat, taking their total to 25.

David Cameron's party saw their share of the vote rise 1% on the last Euro poll
to 27.7%.

The Lib Dems were fourth with 13.7% of the vote, gaining one MEP to take their
total to 11.

The rest of Britain's 69 seats were made up by the Green Party (two), the BNP
(two), the Scottish National Party (two) and Plaid Cymru (one).

Labour deputy leader Harriet Harman admitted: "This is a very, very big defeat
for the Labour Party."

But she defended desperate Gordon Brown, saying: "It is not his fault that there
is a global fi nancial economic crisis."

Mr Cameron said that he was "delighted" with the results.

He said: "Together with the local elections, I think they show an enormous gap
opening up between Labour and Conservatives - almost getting twice as many votes
as Labour.

"A general election would be a great cleansing process."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "We have come second in a major national
election.

"That is a hell of an achievement. "

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'DELIGHTED': Cameron
PROUD: UKIP's Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Lowest vote for the Left

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 133  words


LABOUR is facing the prospect of total annihilation at the next election after
suffering its worst-ever defeat.

The party secured only 15 per cent of the vote in the elections for the European
Parliament, coming third behind the UK Independence Party.

It was its lowest share of the vote since the general election of 1910.

The Tories had the biggest share, with 28.6 per cent - a two per cent rise on
their 2004 Euro election result - and gained an extra seat in the European
Parliament.

UKIP celebrated winning second place with 17.4 per cent of the vote, gaining an
extra Euro MP to take their total to 13.

The Lib Dems had a disappointing night in their first national poll test since
Nick Clegg became leader.

Hopes of overtaking Labour were dashed as the Lib Dem vote share reached only
13.9 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fred writes wrong in sober judgment;
Inside Edge

BYLINE: with Colin Bateman

SECTION: SPORT; 58

LENGTH: 173  words


ANDREW FLINTOFF has dipped his toe into politics with a rant in a lads' mag that
would have gone down well at a political rally for UKIP.

Flintoff fi d off a broadside at immigrants who cannot speak good English, rap
music, drug abuse, street violence and youth culture in general.

But what made jaws drop in astonishment was Flintoff's concerns over binge
drinking. Is this the same Fred whose place in the nation's affections is built
partly on his laddish booze-fuelled exploits?

Is this the same Fred who staggered off an open-topped bus with the Ashes and
tried to sail the Caribbean on a pedalo?

As a nation we seem to believe the only way to celebrate success is to get
shredded, so when young people see the healthy, wealthy and famous falling out
of a night club, it should be no surprise they want to follow suit.

Freddie's manifesto smacked of breathtaking hypocrisy. As for foreign workers
with a poor grasp on the English language, it was interesting to note the
Flintoff interview in GQ Magazine was paid for by a German car company.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Two Fascist MEPs are Labour's shameful legacy

SECTION: LETTERS; 29

LENGTH: 148  words


HARRIET Harman spent almost all of Sunday night and Monday morning insisting
that her party would learn from all the recent election results - while at the
same time demonstrating she's in complete denial.

She must have used the word "expenses" 50 times on Sunday night alone; the one
and only reason, according to her, for Labour's worst results in about 100
years.

But the Tories, Lib Dems, UKIP and Sinn Fein have all been touched by the
expenses scandal.

I hope Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are proud that their opendoor immigration
policy, maintained for so long in the face of growing opposition from the
working classes, has finally driven some of those frustrated, disillusioned -
and now mostly unemployed - second-class citizens to elect a fascist party to
represent Britain in Europe.

This may well come to be seen, through time, as their shameful, joint legacy.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Comment is free: Europe's winners and losers: Across the
union, attention focused on the success - or otherwise - of extremist parties

BYLINE: Sunny Hundal, Jon Cruddas and Nick Lowles, Iain Macwhirter, Tomos
Livingstone, Agnes Poirier, Mark Fonseca Rendeiro, Anita Prazmowska and John
Hooper

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1514 words


Sunny Hundal

Now take the BNP seriously

I hope the election of Nick Griffin to the European parliament will start a
change in the way we approach the British National party. The BNP has to be
taken seriously because it has shown it can win more than 100,000 votes in a
region. This is not a party to be taken lightly and should be exposed as the
bunch of incompetent charlatans it is, complete with racist histories. The
election of two MEPs may now force journalists to take the BNP more seriously
rather than treat them with the sniffiness that only plays into
anti-establishment anger.

Is the country now going to descend into a racial war? I doubt it. The BNP has
had to increasingly temper its message as it moved closer to power. Most people
have enough contact with someone of an ethnic minority to know how stupid racism
is. That personal knowledge will override whatever the BNP says. All this
doesn't mean we should welcome the BNP with open arms. Only that some of the
over-the-top scaremongering plays into their hands.

Sunny Hundal is the editor of Liberalconspiracy.org

Jon Cruddas and Nick Lowles

Beware the 'protest vote' tag

The election of two BNP members has given fascism a foothold. Yet the political
class describes it as a "protest" or a predictable response to the expenses
crisis; rather than something profound at work way beyond the Westminster
bubble.

The Hope Not Hate campaign made a difference; the BNP gained seats but nothing
compared to what it expected. But its campaign cannot reduce health inequalities
or enduring poverty and immobility. It cannot overcome disenfranchisement and
alienation from interchangeable Westminster politicians. In short, it cannot
substitute for what a radical Labour government should be doing and a language
that it should be using that could inspire hope.

To dismiss the BNP as a protest vote is wrong and dangerous. It absolves parties
from addressing their own shortcomings and the policy issues that are deemed
unfashionable within SW1. Unless this approach changes then support for the far
right will grow. Now is the time to act and now is the time to fight.

Jon Cruddas is Labour MP for Dagenham; Nick Lowles is editor, Searchlight
magazine

Iain Macwhirter

A Scottish nationalist triumph

What's the difference between the SNP and the BNP, who both won two European
seats? One letter and 500 miles? No. The Scottish National party benefited from
the nationwide swing away from the establishment parties, but it couldn't be
more different to the neofascist British National party. The SNP is a civic
nationalist party with strong social democratic leanings. It wants an open
border for all races and nationalities.

It was the SNP's night. The days are long gone since Labour was able to
marginalise the SNP as a nationalist fringe party with sinister tendencies.
Since it formed the government in the Scottish parliament in 2007, the SNP has
consolidated its hold on Scottish politics, and Alex Salmond is as popular as
ever. The intriguing question, given the performance of the Tories south of the
border, is how the SNP first minister is going to get on with a Conservative
prime minister, David Cameron, in Westminster.

Iain Macwhirter is a columnist for the Glasgow Herald

Tomos Livingstone

Historic Tory victory in Wales

For the first time since the mid-19th century, the Conservatives finished first
in Wales, with 145,193 votes to Labour's 138,852. Records are tumbling
everywhere; Labour hasn't failed to come first in Wales since 1918, when Lloyd
George and the Liberal party ruled the roost.

Labour has been mauled before in Wales and bounced back. It lost assembly seats
and councils to Plaid Cymru in 1999, but regained them next time around. This
time the shock is sharper, the defeat bigger and the task of recovery much
harder. Meanwhile the Conservatives can celebrate: the Euro results, on a low
turnout, suggest they would win 17 Welsh seats at a general election, although
not even David Cameron thinks that's really going to happen. Wales also gets its
first-ever Ukip MEP, and the chance to mull another mystery: why are the
successors to Lloyd George, the Liberal Democrats, trailing so far behind in
fifth place?

Tomos Livingstone is political editor of the Western Mail

Agnes Poirier

A grown-up ballot in France

Alongside the Greens, who received 16.3% of votes, the big victor was Nicolas
Sarkozy's UMP, with 27.9%. At first, this looks like a bewildering result: how
can such an unpopular government and president achieve such high scores? It
seems that voters are more grown up than is usually thought.

These were European elections, and voters kept it precisely at that: giving a
good mark to Sarkozy's EU presidency, which they judged efficient and
successful; rallying round the Greens for campaigning on European issues, and
transcending party politics; lambasting the Socialists (16.5%) for their
infighting, divisive tactics and lack of ideas; and finally chastising Francois
Bayrou, whose centrist Modem party (8.5%) campaigned almost exclusively on his
opposition to Sarkozy.

When we say French voters, remember, however, that only four voters out of 10
deigned to vote for Europe. It is easy to imagine that a majority of the
abstainers, belonging to the left, didn't bother going to the polling stations,
disgusted as they were at the fragmentation and divisions of the French left.

Agnes Poirier is a French journalist based in London

Mark Fonseca Rendeiro

The rise of the Dutch far-right

Geert Wilders and his Freedom party, which won 17% of the vote and four seats,
are the best game in town when it comes to tapping into Dutch fears for the
prosperity many have enjoyed over recent decades. The party is also good at
building on fears or ignorance regarding Moroccan and Turkish migrants, without
whom the Netherlands could never have achieved its economic prosperity.

The party throws around terms like "the Islamisation of the Netherlands" in the
hope that this combination of terms will scare and mobilise more voters. It also
benefits from the soundbite culture of today's mainstream media, for which such
terms make a fine headline. Clearly both these tactics have helped them make big
gains.

But no matter how big the headline, the power of far-right voters is not the
only news in the Netherlands. It should be stated that a pair of progressive
pro-European parties are also on the rise. And in a country where far-right
parties rise and fall flat on their faces in only a few years, pro-European
parties have an established tradition of not only winning seats, but of
developing successful policy. Beyond that, unlike Wilders, they will actually go
to Brussels and represent their constituencies.

Mark Fonseca Rendeiro, based in Amsterdam, blogs at citizenreporter.org

Anita Prazmowska

Poles rejected extremism

Poland's contribution to the European parliament might yet turn out to be one of
stability during the coming years. Voters chose to confirm their support for the
ruling party and to distance themselves from extremist groups. The picture
generated by the results of the elections is not only that of a solid political
system, but perhaps even more importantly of a mature electorate: one that has
rejected wild promises and unrealistic hopes in favour of parties that assure
their electorates that they will endeavour to secure for Poland the best
conditions possible while working on maintaining financial and economic
stability at home.

Anita Prazmowska is professor in international history at the LSE

John Hooper

Pyrrhic victory for Berlusconi

Silvio Berlusconi's Freedom People movement took just over 35% of the vote. In
any other country that might be considered a pretty satisfactory result. It was
only a couple of points below the Freedom People's showing at the general
election, and put the prime minister's party nine points ahead of the main
opposition group, the Democratic party. But Italy is not just any other country.
And what counts here are the expectations that had been aroused.

Before the eruption of the sex scandals in which Berlusconi has been embroiled,
polls were registering a powerful surge of support for both the prime minister
and the Freedom People - the result of the government's vigorous law-and-order
programme (tinged with anti-migrant overtones) and, not least, Berlusconi's own
ability to talk himself up. For weeks he has been claiming an approval rating of
more than 70%, and implying that that gives him a mandate for a radical
constitutional reform. His objective: a presidential system like that of the US
or France. And no prizes for guessing whom he saw filling the role.

At one point, Berlusconi said he was hoping for 45% of the vote, though he and
his associates later trimmed the target to 40%. This result leaves them well
short of even their revised aim. Berlusconi has been cut down to size. He
remains Italy's prime minister. But after today's results he is no longer a
Julius Caesar in waiting.

John Hooper is the Guardian's Rome correspondent

Read the full versions of all these pieces and join the debate at:

guardian.co.uk/commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Labour in crisis: Dazed, gripped by delusion, the party last
night bottled it: There is a bold, reviving leader's speech that might yet
salvage Labour. It just can't be delivered by Gordon Brown

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1091 words


'Things Can Only Get Better" was Labour's strangely double-edged theme song in
1997. Now things couldn't get worse, at 15% and below Ukip. How can Wales have
gone Tory? Good grief, only 8% voted Labour in the entire south-east. Crunching
the numbers for the next general election, YouGov says Labour has to get 20%
more to win. It looks virtually impossible. That's what realists in the
parliamentary Labour party said last night - but the rest banged the desks as if
loyalty would save their skins. They bottled it.

Gordon Brown is not Labour's only problem, but he is the greatest obstacle to
recovery. Delusory denial grips those still defending him, as they warn
defenestration would lead to meltdown. But that's already here - crack up,
collapse, catastrophe, the nightmare is real. When he ducked the election, he
said he needed time to lay out his vision. Eighteen months later, none has
emerged. Will they believe he can do it now?

Let's look at the Brown defenders' best excuses. No, this appalling result was
not part of a Europe-wide rebellion against incumbents caused by the global
crash. Other governments in the same plight surged ahead in support - Merkel in
Germany, Sarkozy in France, Berlusconi in Italy, Tusk in Poland. The British
government is almost alone among big EU countries to take a heavy hit. Nor is it
a simple sweep to the right: Merkel and Sarkozy won by taking more radical
social democratic action than Brown did, by nationalising the banks, with higher
social protection for the unemployed and more state intervention, squeezing
parties on their left by turning leftwards. How Sarko railed against the
"dictatorship of the market", while Brown missed the bloody mood and apologised
to the CBI for the "regrettable" 50p tax rate. He failed to seize the
anti-bonus, anti-banker spirit of the times that should have been Labour's
moment.

His guards have cleverly drawn a red line around Brown, warning the left and the
unions that this is a Blairite plot to seize control of the party and march it
to a public-sector privatising, individualist, anti-state future. Look at
Blears, Flint and Purnell and flinch from this plot, they say. Since potential
new leaders are all silent, the left can fear that Blairism lurks beneath all
their skins. If the left is bought off with this confected threat, they should
remember that the party is well left of the government: Blears came last in the
deputy leadership. Labour in its present mood will not elect a rightwinger if
Brown goes.

Pause a moment and ask: what exactly is radical or leftwing about Gordon Brown?
There never was a whisker between him and Blair, beyond jealousy. It was a
fiction that deceived many, and perhaps he deceived himself in those impatient
years of briefings that he would do things differently. His private finance
initiative projects, his ill-advised public-private partnership for the tube,
abolition of the 10p tax rate to give a tax break to higher earners, 42-day
detention without trial, ID cards and springing a Trident replacement with no
discussion on future foreign policy? Every time the rightwing press suggests he
is betraying Blair's modernising agenda, he does something to prove it's not
true, such as the third runway at Heathrow.

Why is the Daily Mail's Paul Dacre a frequent family visitor? Under Brown's
chancellorship, Britain became yet more unequal, and the child poverty target
was abandoned. All the "golden years" GDP growth went for the rich few, not for
the many. Of course Brown did not intend that, but he never had the political
courage to make the tough choices that would have sent money flowing away from
the rich towards the rest.

To govern from the left requires a bravery he lacked to face down the power of
money. Watch Jon Cruddas, Compass and the rest carefully: if Labour MPs on the
left lack the courage to replace Brown, don't let them imagine it's in the cause
of progress. If they put a sectarian fight against Blairites (who are in truth
no threat), before saving the party from ruin, there will be nothing left to
squabble over in a year.

Finally, the most effective frightener is the threat that appointing a new
leader must mean an instant election. At 15% in the polls, that looks like
suicide - and Peter Mandelson repeats it over and over. But why would an
election be necessary? Imagine a new leader stepping out in July who says this:
"Friends, there will be an election and a referendum on constitutional reform. I
relinquish the injustice of the prime minister choosing the date: from now on
elections will always be on the first Sunday in May, with fixed parliaments.
Before then, we will clean up expenses and every sitting Labour MP will undergo
reselection. A convention on the constitution and on liberty will bring in clean
party funding: democracy will not be in hock to the whim of millionaires. We
will have an elected Lords, sweep away obscurantist flummery in the Commons and
devolve more powers. This parliament that made a mess of things must clean it up
before it goes. A referendum on proportional representation deserves time for
the arguments to be put fairly.

'But above all, as a new prime minister, give me time to lay out my priorities.
In a time of hardship we will share the burdens more fairly, protect the most
vulnerable better, make sure benefits and the minimum wage are pegged to
earnings levels in perpetuity. Green jobs, already begun, will be increased with
more housebuilding - and no, there will be no third runway. All we do from now
on will be for cleaner, greener and fairer government. I will apologise for
things we have done wrong, so you may better believe me when I boast of all we
have done well. There is much to be proud of, and much that will be put at risk
if we don't sing the praises of the considerable good Labour has done: Sure
Start is just one emblem. Don't let anyone say the money was wasted or that the
state should be shrunk. We stand for all the important things in life that we
can only buy together - health, education, safe streets, beautiful parks and the
long fight to stop climate change."

That's not so hard is it? But Brown can't and won't do it. He is too damaged now
to gain from any green shoots emerging in the spring. He has failed badly,
impossible to change. Last night he promised yet again to be "open" amid a
flurry of appeasing promises. Surely they will come to their senses? I still
doubt the Labour party is so useless that it will let Brown lead them to
destruction at the next election.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Front: He lives to limp on, but no one pretends the threat is gone

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words


It's become commonplace to declare that Gordon Brown lacks the skills of the
modern politician, starting with an easy knack for fluent, telegenic
communication. That's true enough, but it has obscured a fact no less true.
Brown may not be blessed with the new-fangled techniques of politics - but he is
gifted with all the old ones. When it comes to the brute business of machine
politics, especially the crushing of internal dissent, Brown is nothing less
than a master.

If his enemies forgot that about him, last night, in committee room 14 of the
House of Commons, they were served a reminder. In the plotters' schemes, the
long-arranged meeting of the parliamentary Labour party was to be the moment of
confrontation, the turning point in the conspiracy to unseat the prime minister.

Last week's cabinet resignations, the calamitous European election results - it
was all due to culminate at six o'clock on Monday 8 June, when the prime
minister would finally succumb.

It did not quite work out like that. Brown survived last night's packed meeting
of the PLP - which greeted him with a cheer and a ritual banging of desks - and
therefore seems to have survived the attempted coup itself. For now.

The backbench conspirators were not able to taunt the prime minister with a
petition bearing 70 signatories demanding his head, just as James Purnell's
resignation last week did not trigger a cabinet rush for the exits. The
anticipated chorus of Labour grandees telling him to his face "In the name of
God, go" fell mute. Instead, only known rebels led by Charles Clarke and Fiona
MacTaggart - usual suspects - told him to quit, to no applause. Heavyweights
such as David Blunkett and Margaret Beckett did attack - but they aimed their
fire at the rebels. The plot fizzled.

How did it happen? The plotters bear a large part of the blame. They took on a
master tactician and organiser, a man who has the Labour rulebook engraved on
the inside of his eyelids, and failed to organise.

Purnell's resignation last week was not co-ordinated - it was a lone stand,
designed to be free of the taint of conspiracy. Each of the rest of the
resignations were sui generis , easy to explain away as the product of specific
personal factors that did not amount to a collec tive vote of no confidence in
the prime minister.

Above all, the plot to replace Brown lacked two essentials: an alternative
candidate and an alternative programme. Had there been a coherent policy
manifesto, the anti-Brownites might have broken free of the Blairite circle and
won over the likes of Jon Cruddas and the Compass crowd. Who knows, they might
have persuaded a trade union leader to break ranks and call on Brown to go.

Instead the brothers have held their tongues. Not out of any great loyalty, I'm
told: "They're as lost as everyone else, unsure what to do," says one
influential party figure.

But it was not just the weakness of Brown's enemies that saved him. The prime
minister's own resilience coupled with his facility in the low politics of
survival counted too.

With a kind of desperate genius, he carried out a reshuffle that was ugly but
which did the job, binding in those ministers who could have destroyed him -
from Lord Mandelson downwards. He then let his allies craft an argument that
deterred any waverers from joining the plotters' ranks: if Labour ditched its
leader now, the demand for an immediate election would be irresistible.

That was enough to scare off most would-be rebels last week. After Sunday's
European results it petrified the rest. The wipeout exceeded even the direst
predictions. Most Labourites knew they were going to take a pounding. None
expected a result so bad.

Its awfulness can be expressed a dozen different ways. A share of the vote below
16%; third place behind Ukip; losing Wales, the cradle of the Labour movement,
for the first time since 1931 and to the Tories; fifth in the south-west and
south-east, with percentages in the single digits. Now you've seen the voters'
verdict, the Brownites said to their fellow MP's, why the hurry to face them
again?

So Gordon Brown has bought himself time. "He lives to limp on," one former
minister texted from inside last night's meeting. "He staggers on, weakened,"
agreed another Labour luminary. But no one pretends the threat has gone.

Some suspect the anti-Brownites might keep up the Chinese water tor ture of
round-robins and resignations, a drip-drip erosion of the prime minister's
authority. Others wonder if they will now retreat, only to re-emerge in time for
the party conference - better prepared this time.

For this reason, even Brown's closest cabinet allies now say he only has a
matter of months to turn things around. If, by the autumn, he can point to the
early signs of economic recovery, clean up the expenses mess and make a
coherent, ideological case for Labour - one that amounts to a defence of the
progressive role of the state - then, they say, he will survive and fight the
next general election.

If he cannot, he will face another coup attempt - one that even he, with all his
years of bloody experience, may not be able to resist.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: UK results: Six signs of disaster

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 165 words


1 In Cornwall Mebyon Kernow, the party for Cornish independence, beat Labour
into sixth place. Labour was also behind the Tories, Ukip, the Lib Dems and
Greens.

2 The Tories beat Labour in Wales. It's the first time Labour has been beaten in
an all-Wales election since 1918.

3 The Scottish National party beat Labour in Scotland. It's the first time the
SNP has beaten Labour in a European election.

4 In the south-east, Labour came fifth, with just 8.2% of the vote. It was well
behind the Lib Dems (14.1%) and the Greens (11.6%), as well as the Tories and
Ukip.

5 The BNP will be represented in the European parliament for the first time,
winning a seat in Yorkshire and the Humber and a seat in the north-west. The BNP
won both seats at the expense of Labour.

6 Labour had expected its share of the vote to plummet, and on Sunday night
party sources were predicting it would poll between 16 and 17%. In the event it
got 15.7% - its lowest share of the vote in a national election since 1910.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: UK results: Cameron mocks battered Labour's 'dance
of death': Tories admit party still has work to do to win general election

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words


David Cameron declared yesterday that Gordon Brown and his cabinet were locked
in a "slow dance of political death" after Labour sank to third place in the
European elections in one of the party's worst ever electoral performances.

Hailing his first national election victory in Britain as Tory leader, Cameron
went to Wales, where the Tories topped the poll as Labour suffered its first
defeat in the country since the "khaki" poll of 1918.

"These results reflect appalling weakness and division and ineffectiveness in
the Labour party," Cameron told supporters in Cardiff. He insisted that the
Tories were once again a one nation party after winning in Wales, where they
lost all their Westminster seats in 1997.

"We have an extraordinary situation where (the prime minister) can't seem to
reshuffle his cabinet but they can't seem to organise a coup. They are, if you
like, locked together in this sort of slow dance of political death that is so
bad for our country."

Cameron's upbeat words came after a night of mixed emotions for the Tories and a
disastrous one for Labour. Labour made no attempt to disguise what one senior
cabinet minister described as a "hideous" result for the party as it collapsed
to third place behind Ukip with just 15.7% of the national vote, winning 13
seats in Strasbourg. This is a fall of 6.9 points on the 22.6% Labour won in
2004, a year before Tony Blair won a third term in Downing Street.

Cameron was delighted to top the poll with 27.7% of the vote, capturing 25 seats
in Strasbourg, which is a notional increase of one seat. Britain's allocation in
the European parliament is falling from 78 to 72 seats, making an exact
like-for-like comparison impossible.

While the Tories were celebrating in public, they admitted in private that the
result shows the party has its work cut out if it is to win a general election.
The party increased its share of the vote by just one point on the last European
elections in 2004, when it topped the poll with 26.7% of the vote, only to lose
the general election the following year.

William Hague did even better in the 1999 European election, when he topped the
poll with 35.77% of the vote, well ahead of Labour, which came second with
28.03% of the vote. That saved his precarious leadership; Hague resigned two
years later after another defeat at the hands of Labour at the 2001 general
election.

Labour and the Tories agreed that, as Britain's two largest parties, they were
both hit by the expenses row. The so-called "fringe" parties - those not
represented at Westminster - won about 36% of the vote, compared with about 30%
in 2004.

Cameron admitted that he still faces a challenge to win a general election.
"Yes, these elections show how bad things are for Labour, but they also set a
challenge for us," he said in Cardiff. "Yes, people have lost trust in the
Labour government, but we've got to win their trust. Yes, people think that
Labour have failed, but they want to know not from us about Labour's failures,
they want to know from us about how we are going to succeed."

In an echo of Tony Blair, who was always warning activists against complacency,
Cameron added: "I haven't led this party now for almost four years to see us
slip back into some comfort zone of just thinking we can drift our way towards
an election victory. We can't, we have to earn it, we have to win it."

But Labour was particularly badly hit by the rise in the fringe vote. While the
British National party managed to increase its national share by only 1.3
points, its two seats - in the north-west and in Yorkshire and the Humber - were
captured from Labour.

Labour will also be worried that it is struggling in southern England outside
London. It collapsed to fifth place in both the south-west and the south-east,
behind the Greens, after Labour's vote fell in the two regions by 6.8 points to
7.7% and by 5.4 points to 8.2% respectively. This will revive fears voiced by
the Labour intellectual Lord Radice in a pamphlet after its 1992 election defeat
that the party is suffering from a "southern discomfort".

Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, put Labour's poor performance down to
anger about MPs' expenses. "They are furious about the MPs' expenses and
allowances at Westminster and, frankly, they're furious too about what they see
as disunity amongst Labour MPs at Westminster," he said.

But he insisted that Labour voters were not switching the Tories and the Lib
Dems. "I think what's interesting about these results is Labour voters have not
switched en masse to the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats or other parties. In
the main, what they seem to be doing is registering a protest by withholding
their vote and staying at home."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: UK results: Round-up: Ukip: Success paves the way
for general election, says Farage

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 182 words


The UK Independence party has established itself as a political force after
finishing second in the European elections, its leader claimed last night.

Nigel Farage said the result proved its showing in 2004 had been no fluke, and
paved the way for a sustained challenge at the next general election. "This
strong result confirms we are a serious force on the UK political scene."

In 2004 the party got 16.2% of the vote and 12 MEPs. This time its share rose to
17.4% and it has 13 MEPs, although the total number of MEPs from the United
Kingdom has fallen from 78 to 72. Ukip performed strongly in the north-west,
where it increased its share of the vote by 3.7 percentage points to 15.8% and
missed out on claiming a second MEP in the region by a few hundred votes. The
party lost one seat in the east Midlands but gained one in Wales and went up
from one to two in the West Midlands, where it saw a 3.8-point increase on its
2004 performance.

Party activists said Ukip would have done much better if the issue of European,
rather than British, politicians' expenses had dominated the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: UK results: Round-up: Lib Dems: Party rues the
'missed opportunity'

BYLINE: Matthew Weaver

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 153 words


Questions are being raised about the Liberal Democrats' campaign after the party
slipped to fourth place. They secured a 13.9% share, down from 15% five years
ago, but gained 10 seats - up one.

Matthew Taylor, a former Treasury spokesman and MP for Truro and St Austell,
said: "There was a missed opportunity here. If we had secured a few more
percentage points we could have achieved something dramatic."

The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, admitted the party had struggled to get its
message across and said their message on Europe had been "obscured" by the
expenses scandal

The party was hoping to secure third or even second place but it was squeezed
out by the surge in votes for Ukip and other minor parties. "Our share of the
vote dropped fractionally but it more or less held its own, and we are within a
hair's breadth of Labour's share of the vote," Clegg said, adding that they were
gaining votes at Labour's expense.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: UK results: Round-up: Wales: Grassroots fury at
worst Labour result since 1918

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 146 words


Supporters yesterday accused Labour of taking them for granted as the party was
beaten into second place in a national poll in Wales for the first time since
1918.

People who had always voted Labour said they stayed at home because they were
angry at MPs' expenses, despaired of the leadership and the economy, or felt
politicians had not bothered to take much interest in what, for almost a
century, has been a heartland. "I've voted Labour all my life; and my dad did
before me, and his dad too," said store manager Steve Jones, 44. "I didn't
bother voting this time. I feel they've betrayed us."

The disastrous second place cost Labour an MEP and leaves it, the Conservatives,
Plaid Cymru and the UK Independence party with one Welsh seat each in the
European parliament.

The Tories came first in 17 Welsh parliamentary constituencies, including
Labour-held seats such as Wrexham.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

National: Election aftermath: BNP success: Airtime: 'They're news, we can't
ignore that. But status brings scrutiny'

BYLINE: Stephen Brook

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 536 words


Yesterday morning, when BBC Radio 5 Live breakfast host Nicky Campbell
interviewed Nick Griffin, he did what he often does with politicians after a
successful night at the polls - he congratulated the British National party
leader and new MEP on his victory.

Campbell's softly softly interview, and BBC colleague John Humphrys' much
harsher one shortly afterwards on Radio 4's Today programme, underscored how the
BNP's elevation to two MEPs gives them status in the political debate.

Rules governing such interviews on the BBC, ITV and other free-to-air
terrestrial broadcasters will not change, but Griffin and Andrew Brons, the
BNP's other new MEP, will get more airtime. This presents news executives with
tricky judgments over how to cover a party which many viewers and listeners
regard as beyond the pale.

Campbell read out to Griffin texts from Asian listeners worried they would now
become third-class citizens. Twenty minutes later, probably double the number of
listeners, 7 million, heard Humphrys' far more direct approach.

In response to questions about black and Asian people being barred from BNP
membership, Griffin accused the BBC of being "obsessed" with race. "It is the
BBC that has a black Friar Tuck in Robin Hood for heaven's sake, that is
race-obsessed craziness."

Humphrys responded: "Is it, why?" Griffin replied: "Black people have been in
this country overwhelming (sic) since 1948, and the peasants in Robin Hood's
time were what your previous director general Greg Dyke would have referred to
as hideously white."

The BBC producers' guidelines lay down "comprehensive, authoritative and
impartial coverage of news and current affairs", giving due prominence "over
time" to all the "main strands of argument and to all the main parties".

"We gave them coverage commensurate with their standing in the polls and their
success in local elections," a BBC source said.

Ric Bailey, the BBC's chief political adviser, said no one had agonised over
whether to interview the BNP yesterday: "I don't think this causes anyone to
think we need a new policy, because we have a consistent approach." BBC teams
must tell Bailey if they want to interview party leaders, so the BBC can ensure
that over time equal weight is given across the spectrum. Electoral support was
only one factor governing coverage given to any one party, but electoral success
had increased BBC coverage of Ukip, he said. "You have to give appropriate
scrutiny as well."

David Mannion, editor in chief of ITV News, said Griffin and the BNP were big
news today but not necessarily in the future. "It's just happened, and it's the
first time. As the days and weeks roll on we won't look for excuses to interview
him," Mannion said. "We have to be aware of the stunt factor of people like him.
We need to be aware he is a person of extreme views, but he's an elected
representative. And, unless he is proscribed, it is OK to interview him. We'd be
running away from our job if we ignored him. But we won't be putting a
correspondent outside his front door."

The BNP has never been asked by the BBC on to Question Time, but votes would be
only one factor in any change, according to Bailey. Other parties refuse to
share a platform with them.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2009 Friday



CORRECTION: A report about BNP leader Nick Griffin's recent media appearances
said that probably 7 million listeners heard Griffin on the Today programme. The
programme's most recent audience figures calculated that it has 6.6 million
listeners, but that is an average figure over the course of a week, not the
number of listeners at any one time (They're news, we can't ignore that. But
status brings scrutiny, 9 June, page 7).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election aftermath: Centre-left meltdown: MEP caucus: Cameron on track
to form alliance of Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words


David Cameron is expected to move swiftly this week to break with the
centre-right winners of the European election and seal a new alliance of
Eurosceptics with at least six other parties, mainly in eastern Europe.

Timothy Kirkhope, the newly elected MEP for Yorkshire and Tory leader in the
European parliament, is to hold talks in Brussels this week with prospective
partners, Conservative sources said, with a view to an announcement soon.

The move to cut 20 years of cooperation with the European People's party of
continental Christian Democrats is being criticised as perverse, since the EPP's
collective resounding victory across Europe will strengthen its domination of
the assembly and includes the government leaders of Germany, France, Italy, and
Poland.

"There will be some movement in the next few days in Brussels," said a Tory
source. "We're pretty confident we'll get them all there. It's just a question
of finalising things. This will be a sizeable group, one of the largest in the
parliament."

The Conservatives need 25 MEPs from at least seven countries to form an official
caucus in the parliament. Their Czech partner, the Civic Democratic party or
ODS, won the election with nine seats. Their Polish partner, the Law and Justice
party or PiS, came second with 15 of Poland's 50 seats. The Tories have 25, plus
possibly one from Northern Ireland.

The seat numbers are comfortably there but the Conservatives are being coy about
the other four partners, and want to have eight or nine countries in the group
to prevent it being held hostage by one party which could threaten to leave and
have the group collapse if there were only seven.

It looks as though the Tories will muster the countries, although their proposed
partner in Bulgaria failed to win a seat.

Two Latvian parties which won three seats between them are candidates. The
ethnic Polish MEP in Lithuania will probably join. The big winner in Estonia,
Indrek Tarand, an independent and TV talkshow host viewed as a libertarian,
could also sign up.

The fiercely anti-immigrant and Eurosceptic Danish People's party, which won two
seats, is a further contender. And in Flanders in Belgium, the rightwing
libertarian List Dedecker (one seat) would bring the number of participating
countries to eight.

In public, the Tories speak only of their alliance with the ODS in Prague,
failing even to mention the Polish party despite the fact that Cameron appeared
at a Warsaw rally last weekend with the PiS leader, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, to
proclaim the coalition of "modern conservatives".

Konrad Szymanski, a newly re-elected PiS MEP, said the Tories had more than
enough offers for forming the caucus.

The Tories are also hoping that the Independence/Democracy group, a small caucus
of Eurosceptics and anti-Europeans including Ukip, could fall apart, leaving
others clamouring to come into the Cameron camp.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election result: Region by region: The numbers: A cataclysm ushers in
eight-party politics

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 487 words


Britain used to be dominated by something called the two-party system - the
Conservatives and Labour. When one gained, the other lost. Not any more. After
the European elections of 2009 Britain has entered a new political world.
Welcome to the Britain of eight-party politics.

Eight British parties will be sending MEPs to Brussels and Strasbourg for the
next five years, a new record. A combination of the proportional representation
system and the gradual desertion of the two major parties by the voters - only
43.4% of whom voted for the Tories and Labour in these elections - has redrawn
the political map.

The Conservatives can claim victory in these elections. They got 1.7m more votes
than their nearest challengers and will have 25 MEPs, 12 more than any other UK
party. They came top of the poll in every region save Scotland, where they were
beaten by the nationalists and Labour, and north-east England, where Labour held
on. Yet with just 27.7% of the vote, more than seven points down on their
estimated 35% national share in last week's local elections, these results
underline that the Tory vote is not as solid as David Cameron must want it to
be.

For Labour, the results are unequivocally cataclysmic. Third place, with only
2.4m votes and a poll share of 15.7%, is a record-breaking bad performance.
Labour has never done as badly in a UK-wide election since the first world war.
Only one in four Labour voters in the 2005 general election voted Labour last
week. Labour lost Scotland and Wales, its old heartlands, in UK-wide elections
for the first time in decades. Not surprisingly, Gordon Brown's position is
again under threat.

The Liberal Democrats slipped a little in votes but gained another MEP - in the
East Midlands. This is small consolation for Nick Clegg. In a contest seemingly
tailor-made for the third party to profit from disaffection with the two major
parties, the voters went to the margins, not to the Lib Dems.

The big winner was the UK Independence party. In the end, neither leadership
squabbles nor expenses scandals could prevent the anti-EU party from repeating
its 2004 success. Nearly 2.5 million voters chose Ukip, sending 13 MEPs to
Brussels. Labour's collapse meant Ukip finished second in the popular vote for
the first time.

The other winning parties were the Greens, who held their two seats, the
far-right British National party, which won two seats and 6.2% of the national
vote (though only 1.3% up on 2004), and the Scottish and Welsh nationalists. The
biggest winners among these parties were the SNP, who thumped Labour into second
place in Scotland.

Translating the European results into general election projections is a
hazardous business. Nevertheless, anything close to Thursday's performance would
produce a comfortable Conservative win and decimate Labour's ranks at
Westminster. It would by some distance be Labour's worst general election
performance in history.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

National: Election result: Region by region: Backlash against Labour turns map
blue

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1183 words


East Midlands

Derby; Derbyshire; Leicester; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire; Northamptonshire;
Nottingham; Nottinghamshire; Rutland

Electorate: 3,312,792 Turnout: 35.26%

Elected: Roger Helmer (C), Emma McClarkin (C),

Glenis Willmott (Lab), Bill Newton Dunn (LD), Derek Clark (UKIP)

Votes:

C 310,275 (26.56%)

Lab 206,945 (17.72%)

UKIP 201,984 (17.29%)

LD 151,428 (12.96%)

BNP 106,319 (9.10%)

Green 83,939 (7.19%)

EDP 28,498 (2.44%)

UK First 20,561 (1.76%)

CP-CPA 17,907 (1.53%)

Soc Lab 13,590 (1.16%)

NO2EU 11,375 (0.97%)

Libertas 7,882 (0.67%)

Jury Team 7,362 (0.63%)

C maj 103,330 (8.85%)

1.71% swing Lab to C

Eastern

Bedford; Cambridgeshire; Central Bedfordshire; Essex; Hertfordshire; Luton;
Norfolk; Peterborough; Southend-on-Sea; Suffolk; Thurrock

Electorate: 4,252,669 Turnout: 37.70%

Elected: Geoffrey Van Orden (C), Robert Sturdy (C), Vicky Ford (C), Richard
Howitt (Lab), Andrew Duff (LD), David Campbell Bannerman (UKIP), Stuart Agnew (
UKIP)

Votes:

C 500,331 (31.21%)

UKIP 313,921 (19.58%)

LD 221,235 (13.80%)

Lab 167,833 (10.47%)

Green 141,016 (8.80%)

BNP 97,013 (6.05%)

UK First 38,185 (2.38%)

EDP 32,211 (2.01%)

CP-CPA 24,646 (1.54%)

NO2EU 13,939 (0.87%)

Soc Lab 13,599 (0.85%)

Animals Count 13,201 (0.82%)

Libertas 9,940 (0.62%)

Ind 9,916 (0.62%)

Jury Team 6,354 (0.40%)

C maj 186,410 (11.63%)

0.21% swing UKIP to C

London

Electorate 5,257,624 Turnout: 33.30%

Elected: Dr Charles Tannock (C), Syed Kamall (C), Marina Yannakoudakis (C),
Claude Moraes (Lab), Mary Honeyball (Lab), Sarah

Ludford (LD), Jean Lambert (Green),

Gerard Batten (UKIP)

Votes:

C 479,037 (27.36%)

Lab 372,590 (21.28%)

LD 240,156 (13.72%)

Green 190,589 (10.88%)

UKIP 188,440 (10.76%)

BNP 86,420 (4.94%)

CP-CPA 51,336 (2.93%)

Ind Jan 50,014 (2.86%)

EDP 24,477 (1.40%)

NO2EU 17,758 (1.01%)

Soc Lab 15,306 (0.87%)

Libertas 8,444 (0.48%)

Jury Team 7,284 (0.42%)

Ind Cheung 4,918 (0.28%)

SPGB 4,050 (0.23%)

Yes 2 Europe 3,384 (0.19%)

Ind Rahman 3,248 (0.19%)

Ind A 1,972 (0.11%)

ND 1,603 (0.09%)

C maj 106,447 (6.08%)

2.02% swing Lab to C

North East

County Durham; Darlington; Hartlepool; Middlesbrough; Northumberland; Redcar &
Cleveland; Stockton-on-Tees; Tyne & Wear

Electorate 1,939,709 Turnout: 30.41%

Elected: Martin Callanan (C), Stephen Hughes (Lab),

Fiona Hall (LD)

Votes:

Lab 147,338 (24.98%)

C 116,911 (19.82%)

LD 103,644 (17.57%)

UKIP 90,700 (15.38%)

BNP 52,700 (8.93%)

Green 34,084 (5.78%)

EDP 13,007 (2.21%)

Soc Lab 10,238 (1.74%)

NO2EU 8,066 (1.37%)

CP-CPA 7,263 (1.23%)

Libertas 3,010 (0.51%)

Jury Team 2,904 (0.49%)

Lab maj 30,427 (5.16%)

5.18% swing Lab to C

North West

Blackburn-with-Darwen; Blackpool; Cheshire East; Cheshire West & Chester;
Cumbria; Greater Manchester; Halton; Lancashire; Merseyside; Warrington

Electorate 5,206,809 Turnout: 31.72%

Elected: Sir Robert Atkins (C), Sajjad Karim (C),

Jacqueline Foster (C), Arlene McCarthy (Lab), Brian Simpson (Lab), Chris Davies
(LD), Nick Griffin (BNP), Paul Nuttall (UKIP)

Votes:

C 423,174 (25.62%)

Lab 336,831 (20.39%)

UKIP 261,740 (15.85%)

LD 235,639 (14.27%)

BNP 132,094 (8.00%)

Green 127,133 (7.70%)

EDP 40,027 (2.42%)

Soc Lab 26,224 (1.59%)

CP-CPA 25,999 (1.57%)

NO2EU 23,580 (1.43%)

Jury Team 8,783 (0.53%)

Libertas 6,980 (0.42%)

Ind 3,621 (0.22%)

C maj 86,343 (5.23%)

4.20% swing Lab to C

Northern Ireland

Electorate: 1,141,979 Turnout : 42.81%

Elected: Bairbre de Brun (SF), Diane Dodds (DUP), Jim Nicholson (UC)

Votes:

SF 126,184 (26.04%)

DUP 88,346 (18.23%)

UC 82,893 (17.11%)

SDLP 78,489 (16.20%)

TUV 66,197 (13.66%)

Alliance 26,699 (5.51%)

Green 15,764 (3.25%)

Scotland

Electorate 3,873,163 Turnout: 28.52%

Elected: Struan Stevenson (C), David Martin (Lab), Catherine Stihler (Lab),
George Lyon (LD), Ian Hudghton (SNP), Alyn Smith (SNP)

Votes:

SNP 321,007 (29.06%)

Lab 229,853 (20.81%)

C 185,794 (16.82%)

LD 127,038 (11.50%)

Green 80,442 (7.28%)

UKIP 57,788 (5.23%)

BNP 27,174 (2.46%)

Soc Lab 22,135 (2.00%)

CP-CPA 16,738 (1.52%)

SSP 10,404 (0.94%)

Ind 10,189 (0.92%)

NO2EU 9,693 (0.88%)

Jury Team 6,257 (0.57%)

SNP maj 91,154 (8.25%)

7.50% swing Lab to SNP

South East

Bracknell Forest; Brighton & Hove; Buckinghamshire; East Sussex; Hampshire; Isle
of Wight; Kent; Medway; Milton Keynes; Oxfordshire; Portsmouth; Reading; Slough;
Southampton; Surrey; West Berkshire; West Sussex; Windsor & Maidenhead;
Wokingham

Electorate 6,231,875 Turnout: 37.47%

Elected: Daniel Hannan (C), Richard Ashworth (C),

Nirj Deva (C), James Elles (C), Peter Skinner (Lab), Sharon Bowles (LD),
Catherine Bearder (LD),

Caroline Lucas (Green), Nigel Farage (UKIP),

Marta Andreasen (UKIP)

Votes:

C 812,288 (34.79%)

UKIP 440,002 (18.84%)

LD 330,340 (14.15%)

Green 271,506 (11.63%)

Lab 192,592 (8.25%)

BNP 101,769 (4.36%)

EDP 52,526 (2.25%)

CP-CPA 35,712 (1.53%)

NO2EU 21,455 (0.92%)

Libertas 16,767 (0.72%)

Soc Lab 15,484 (0.66%)

UK First 15,261 (0.65%)

Jury Team 14,172 (0.61%)

Peace 9,534 (0.41%)

Roman 5,450 (0.23%)

C maj 372,286 (15.94%)

0.15% swing UKIP to C

South West

Bath & North East Somerset; Bournemouth; Bristol; Cornwall; Devon; Dorset;
Gloucestershire; North Somerset; Plymouth; Poole; Scilly Isles; Somerset; South
Gloucestershire; Swindon; Torbay; Wiltshire

Electorate 3,998,479 Turnout: 38.76%

Elected: Giles Chichester (C), Julie Girling (C), Ashley Fox (C) Graham Watson
(LD) Trevor Colman (UKIP) William Dartmouth (UKIP)

Votes:

C 468,742 (30.25%)

UKIP 341,845 (22.06%)

LD 266,253 (17.18%)

Green 144,179 (9.30%)

Lab 118,716 (7.66%)

BNP 60,889 (3.93%)

Pensioners 37,785 (2.44%)

EDP 25,313 (1.63%)

CP-CPA 21,329 (1.38%)

Meb Ker 14,922 (0.96%)

Soc Lab 10,033 (0.65%)

NO2EU 9,741 (0.63%)

Ind 8,971 (0.58%)

Libertas 7,292 (0.47%)

Fair 7,151 (0.46%)

Jury Team 5,758 (0.37%)

Decision 789 (0.05%)

C maj 126,897 (8.19%)

0.41% swing C to UKIP

Wales

Electorate 2,251,968 Turnout: 30.40%

Elected: Dr Kay Swinburne (C), Derek Vaughan (Lab), Jill Evans (PC), John Bufton
(UKIP)

Votes:

C 145,193 (21.21%)

Lab 138,852 (20.28%)

PC 126,702 (18.51%)

UKIP 87,585 (12.80%)

LD 73,082 (10.68%)

Green 38,160 (5.57%)

BNP 37,114 (5.42%)

CP-CPA 13,037 (1.90%)

Soc Lab 12,402 (1.81%)

NO2EU 8,600 (1.26%)

Jury Team 3,793 (0.55%)

C maj 6,341 (0.93%)

7.00% swing Lab to C

West Midlands

Herefordshire; Shropshire; Staffordshire; Stoke-on-Trent; Telford & Wrekin;
Warwickshire; West Midlands Metropolitan County; Worcestershire

Elected: Philip Bradbourn (C), Malcolm Harbour (C), Michael Cashman (Lab), Liz
Lynne (LD), Mike Nattrass (UKIP), Nikki Sinclaire (UKIP)

Votes:

C 396,847 (28.08%)

UKIP 300,471 (21.26%)

Lab 240,201 (17.00%)

LD 170,246 (12.05%)

BNP 121,967 (8.63%)

Green 88,244 (6.24%)

EDP 32,455 (2.30%)

CP-CPA 18,784 (1.33%)

Soc Lab 14,724 (1.04%)

NO2EU 13,415 (0.95%)

Jury Team 8,721 (0.62%)

Libertas 6,961 (0.49%)

C maj 96,376 (6.82%)

1.52% swing C to UKIP

Yorkshire & The Humber

East Riding of Yorkshire; Kingston-upon-Hull; North East Lincolnshire; North
Lincolnshire; North Yorkshire; South Yorkshire; West Yorkshire; York

Electorate 3,792,415 Turnout: 32.33%

Elected: Edward McMillan-Scott (C), Timothy Kirkhope (C), Linda McAvan (Lab),
Diana Wallis (LD), Andrew Brons (BNP), Godfrey Bloom (UKIP)

Votes:

C 299,802 (24.45%)

Lab 230,009 (18.76%)

UKIP 213,750 (17.43%)

LD 161,552 (13.18%)

BNP 120,139 (9.80%)

Green 104,456 (8.52%)

EDP 31,287 (2.55%)

Soc Lab 19,380 (1.58%)

CP-CPA 16,742 (1.37%)

NO2EU 15,614 (1.27%)

Jury Team 7,181 (0.59%)

Libertas 6,268 (0.51%)

C maj 69,793 (5.69%)

3.67% swing Lab to C

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

G2: Is fascism on the march again?: Does the election of two BNP MEPs and the
success of the far right elsewhere in Europe mean we are facing the threat of
fascism? Or is this just a protest vote that will quickly fade? Leading
historians give their verdicts: Richard Overy: Professor of history at Exeter
University and author of The Morbid Age: Britain Between the Wars

BYLINE: Stephen Moss and John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 312 words


The BNP have been around for a long time and have never managed to make a
serious breakthrough, so we have to get this into perspective. This should be
seen as a protest vote at a difficult moment; it does not mean that the UK
electorate is swinging in favour of fascism.

The Ukip vote is more interesting. That is a vote the BNP might have been
expected to pick up, and if it had won 20% or more, that would have been
worrying. With the loss

of public confidence in parliament, growing nationalism and alarm at terrorism,
this is a moment when you might have expected votes to flow to the BNP. A loss
of confidence in parliamentary institutions is characteristic of all periods
when fascists have come to power - in Italy and Germany, for example - but on
this occasion the BNP has not done especially well. People have preferred to
vote for Ukip. It is essentially a protest vote at a moment of crisis in the
political system. Parliamentary politics will eventually be restored, but almost
certainly not under Gordon Brown.

I am more worried about the drift to the right in the rest of Europe, where the
mood is fearful, anti-immigrant, anti-Islam and deeply hostile to the left.
Europe clearly feels embattled because of factors such as terrorism and the rise
of China, and has been moving to the right for some time. But we shouldn't
interpret this rightwing drift as a return to fascism.

Fascism with a capital F was a phenomenon of the 20s and 30s. It was a
revolutionary movement asserting a violent imperialism and promising a new
social order. There is nothing like that now. Far-right parties now are based on
fear - fear of immigration, fear of aliens, fear of being Europeanised. They
have no vision of a new social order, nor can they legally campaign for the
replacement of a democratic government by an authoritarian regime. This is a
protest vote by fearful people.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

G2: Is fascism on the march again?: Does the election of two BNP MEPs and the
success of the far right elsewhere in Europe mean we are facing the threat of
fascism? Or is this just a protest vote that will quickly fade? Leading
historians give their verdicts: David Kynaston: Research fellow at Kingston
University and author of Austerity Britain

BYLINE: Stephen Moss and John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 347 words


As Nadezhda Mandelstam, wife of Russian poet Osip Mandelstam, said of Stalinism
in her book Hope Against Hope, "Don't think it can't happen to you." There are
definite parallels between Germany in the prewar years and now, most obviously
the economic crisis that sparked mass unemployment. The Wall Street Crash took
place in 1929 but it wasn't until January 1933 that Hitler became chancellor of
Germany; I would suggest that we are a long way from seeing the worst of our own
economic crisis and if we date the start as being September 2008 then we still
have a while to go in which the far right could gain a stronghold.

More worryingly, the recession has been accompanied by a rise in populism and a
loss of faith in democratic politics; the sort of people who, a generation ago,
did not used to be cynical about politics now are. Worse still, people are not
just indifferent to politics, they are ignorant about it: the level of hostility
to intellectualism in this country is deeply depressing.

The BNP is a different animal to Ukip. Ukip can at least make a defensible
democratic case for itself; we were promised a referendum on Europe and we
haven't been given one - almost certainly because it would be lost. There is
something far more sinister about the BNP because it is an overtly racist party.
This is a problem because liberal democracies are not good at dealing with
extremism.

Somehow we need to find a way of exposing the BNP, while stopping it from
manipulating the system to its advantage. It would help here if politicians from
the main parties were more honest and treated the electorate like adults. It is
clear from the budget forecasts that the country is basically bust, yet the
Labour party carries on its "yah boo" politics of claiming it is not going to
cut any public services while the Conservatives have fudged the whole issue on
what they intend to do. Both stances are patronising and unsustainable. The
public knows the country is bust and there are hard choices to make: it's time
the main parties allowed us to join in a grown-up debate about them.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

G2: Is fascism on the march again?: Does the election of two BNP MEPs and the
success of the far right elsewhere in Europe mean we are facing the threat of
fascism? Or is this just a protest vote that will quickly fade? Leading
historians give their verdicts: Norman Davies: Supernumerary fellow at Wolfson
College, Oxford, and fellow of the British Academy

BYLINE: Stephen Moss and John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 424 words


Any comparisons with 1920s Germany are completely overstated. Fascism grew out
of the crushing military defeat in which millions of Germans were killed and the
moral humiliation of the Treaty of Versailles which held that Germany alone was
responsible for the first world war. This was tantamount to saying that German
families, who had done exactly the same as the British and Americans in sending
their conscripted sons to fight, had killed their own children and was the
catalyst for anti-Jewish conspiracy theories and the emergence of a far-right
nationalist movement. Economic depression on its own would not have allowed
fascism to flourish.

That does not mean we should be relaxed about the rise of the BNP. While Ukip
thrives on the notion that the EU is the new Third Reich, the BNP is much more
Anglo-centric; it wants to reclaim an imagined Albion dominated by white
nationals. It is a party that is actually misnamed, for its essence is the
English National party and, with the collapse of the Labour vote in Scotland
giving the SNP an overwhelming majority, the break-up of the United Kingdom must
be a possibility.

The BNP also has more natural allies among the far right in Europe - the Dutch
Freedom party and the French National Front in particular - than Ukip. However,
it is worth remembering that the one thing on which you can rely is that
far-right parties will fall out with each other, so they are unlikely to form a
mass European movement.

What we do need to be concerned about is David Cameron's current flirtation with
the Polish rightwing Law and Justice party, led by Jaroslaw and Lech Kaczynski.
Up until now the British media has been giving the Kaczynski brothers far too
easy a time. The brothers, totally lacking in ideology, are falling over
themselves with joy at being courted by the Conservatives. They are manipulative
politicians with no scruples. In the past they have boycotted state TV,
restricting their appearances to Radju Marija - the station belonging to an
extreme Catholic nationalist group - and have repeatedly tried to smear centrist
politicians and have even claimed that Lech Walesa was a Soviet agent. It's too
simplistic to call them merely far-right - homophobia and anti-Semitism aren't
nearly as much of a problem in Poland as is often claimed - but they do hold the
communist-era assumption that Germany is plotting to take over Poland again.
Fundamentally, they are anti-liberal and determined to do down democracy.
Cameron will definitely come off badly if he gets too close to them.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Leading article: Labour in crisis: Change or die

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 648 words


On a day in which a mild-mannered minister walked out of the government
comparing its leadership to the Militant tendency, even the most extraordinary
facts about Labour's crisis seemed plausible. Behind the Tories in Wales? Sixth
place, in Cornwall, trailing a small band of nationalists? Crushed by the Greens
in Norwich? A national share of the vote below 20% for the first time since
1910? Vying with the Liberal Democrats for fourth place? In the huge south-east
England Euro constituency Labour won just 8.2%, in territory that is, even now,
represented by many Labour MPs.

Panic would be the right response to such results, followed by a determination
to do things differently - but Labour's world and the real world are now quite
separate places, and the party may settle instead for more of the same, with
cheers for Gordon Brown at last night's meeting of the parliamentary Labour
party, where dissidents were in the minority. One wonders how bad the party's
election performance would have to be for its leaders to recognise the obvious -
that the public want to throw them out of office and will do so with extreme
force unless Labour changes. Even now, those in charge are trying to blame
external factors for the calamity: expenses and the dastardly Daily Telegraph,
the recession, disloyal Blairites and indiscipline, racists and nationalists,
David Cameron . . . the excuses are many. Labour's leaders have reached a point
once described by Bertolt Brecht: "The people have lost the confidence of the
government; the government has decided to dissolve the people, and to appoint
another one."

If Gordon Brown could do that, he no doubt would - but he is stuck with the
electorate he has got. So are Britain's other supposedly major parties, also
wounded by the shattering of the popular vote. Ballot papers scattered all over
the place: the beneficiaries included the BNP, who lured racists and the
desperate, the UK Independence party, many of whose previous batch of MEPs fell
into fraud and infighting but who came second this time, and the Greens, now a
refuge for the progressive left. Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats flopped, as
part of the mainstream, while the Conservative party came first only by default
of doing less badly than Labour. Its 28% was not exactly an endorsement of a
party aiming to win a big majority at Westminster within a year.

Politicians, accustomed to majority power in a two-and-a half-party system, will
privately dismiss this outcome as an aberration - a protest in unusual
circumstances in an election that few of them cared about anyway. They expect a
rapid resolution to the nation's political crisis, before a version of normal
service is resumed. In this, their mindset is just the same as the bankers, who
needed bailouts last autumn but now want to get rich again and do not understand
that a crisis of capitalism requires them to change. There is no iron rule that
says Labour support has to recover to a point where the party can compete for
power again. Nor are the Tories assured of anything other than grudging backing
from voters when the general election comes. It is possible to imagine them
winning a majority on not much more than a third of the vote, while Labour
implodes, perhaps for good.

Not all of the party's problems are Mr Brown's fault, and his departure may not
solve them. His critics have been shambolic - offering a rainbow of resignation
styles from Jane Kennedy, more in sorrow than in anger yesterday, to Caroline
Flint's fury, John Hutton's mystery, James Purnell's daring and Hazel Blear's
lonely self-destruction. Labour needs unity and knows it would be easiest to do
this by calling off the attacks on Mr Brown, a widespread view at last night's
PLP meeting. The rebels have no leader, and no agreed policy plan. But the
public could not have made their views clearer. Labour must change, or it will
die.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Reply Letters and emails: Fault-lines after the EU vote

BYLINE: Brian Hughes

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 115 words


* Although they did better than Labour, neither the Tories nor the Lib Dems can
take comfort from the European election results (Report, 8 June). Seemingly
terrified of opening their own fault lines and/or of inflaming the eurosceptic
lobby, none of the main parties ran anything even approximating a real campaign.
The progress made by Ukip and the BNP is therefore as deserved as it is
unwelcome.

It is tragic that, following the European Movement's loss of its main sponsor,
there's no organisation in Britain willing and able to articulate the many
benefits of the flawed but remarkably successful experiment in cross-border
cooperation called the EU.

Brian Hughes

Cheltenham, Gloucestershire

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

The new left

LENGTH: 571 words

ABSTRACT

Salma Yaqoob: Those remaining on the left need rapid renewal to prevent the hard
right filling the vacuum Labour has left behind

FULL TEXT

The historic scale of Labour's defeat at the ballot box is evidence of the deep
betrayal felt by those who once voted Labour in the hope of a fairer society.
The depth of disillusionment with the mainstream parties is underlined by the
shocking breakthrough .

Labour is wholly to blame for its own crisis and has to take a large share of
the responsibility for creating the conditions in which the far right is
growing. Labour loosened the rules that gave licence to greedy bankers to gamble
away our jobs and homes. Labour failed to protect our public services from
wasteful and costly privatisation. Labour has overseen growing inequality and a
chronic shortage of affordable housing. And Labour failed to tackle the scandal
of MPs' expenses.

Labour's failure to deliver for its core support has helped the BNP win votes in
deprived white working-class communities. Labour's determination not to be
outflanked by the Tories on questions of race and immigration has created
fertile ground for racist arguments to win support. Too many BNP arguments have
been legitimised by a political consensus that treats asylum seekers and
immigrants as a criminal threat. The BNP has fed on the growth in Islamophobia,
egged on by a barrage of racist coverage in national newspapers. Political
ground was conceded to the BNP, and they have occupied it to devastating effect.
These election results are a warning of the potential scale of the drift to the
right.

This rightwing threat cannot be confronted by conceding the argument in advance.
There is every practical and political reason for tackling the recession by
extending state intervention, piling investment into a massive programme of
house building, taxing the richest to support the majority of the population
through this recession. But a recent survey showed that more than half the
working population have seen a cut in pay, reductions in hours or a loss of
employment benefits since the recession began. While bankers and shareholders
have been bailed out, millions of workers are paying for the economic crisis
through lower pay, longer hours or unemployment. The Tories, Labour, Lib Dems
and Ukip are all competing with each other on who will push through the most
ruthless cuts to public spending.

Giving ground to a rightwing consensus will not undercut the growth of rightwing
parties. It will only encourage them. It is now critical that the broadest
swaths of the left and progressive opinion in this country work together to
lever the political agenda in the opposite direction.

The manner in which Labour has vacated the traditional ground of the left has
served to weaken any convincing notion of a political alternative to
neo-liberalism. This has created a dangerous vacuum which is in danger of being
filled by hate-fuelled simplicities of the far right. The challenge for the left
is to renew itself and reassert some basic socialist critiques and solutions
into mainstream political debate.

Salma Yaqoob is an elected city councillor in Birmingham and leader of the
Respect party. She will be speaking at the , Saturday 13 June, alongside
Caroline Lucas (Greens), Jon Cruddas (Labour) and Adam Price (Plaid Cymru) on
building a politics of alliances for a post-New Labour mainstream left.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

London's BNP blip

LENGTH: 534 words

ABSTRACT

Dave Hill: The BNP may not have had the same success in London as elsewhere, but
its small advance is still a pressing problem

FULL TEXT

Scroll down from the headlines about  and those BNP triumphs and you'll find a
bit of Britain that deviated from the headline trend: London, the nation's
capital and economic engine room. That's "deviated from" rather than "bucked".
Labour lost one of the three seats it won in 2004 and its share of the vote
shrank by 3.5% while the BNP's rose to nearly 5%. Yet Labour's slump in the
Smoke was only half that of the party's nationally, keeping its share above 20%
(21.5% to be precise) while the BNP's was up by less than 1%.

Meanwhile, the performances of the two other main parties was not dramatically
different from last time round (Tories' share up just 0.5%, Lib Dems' down
1.5%), and Ukip, which finished second in the country overall, actually slipped
a bit in London. All three of these parties held their seats (no one gained from
Labour because the London region had one fewer seat up for grabs than last
time), as did the Greens, which was alone in enlarging its share significantly.
Amid the talk of turmoil, the  is of little overall change. Why?

First, let's ponder Labour's support. Round here, these come in different
varieties. The affluent, motivated socially liberal type - "New Labour" fans or
otherwise - reviles the far right, so there won't have been a lot of switching
in their ranks (indeed, the prospect of the BNP profiting from the government's
woes might even have galvanised support for Labour, in spite of everything. I
could name one such elector. Maybe you could too). The same goes for black and
brown voters, regardless of social class. Plenty of white working-class
Londoners will have stuck with Labour too. Inconveniently for some betrayal
theorists, they aren't all consumed with ancestral rage against "political
correctness".

But turnout was low in London and unemployment, disaffection and concern about
immigration were all factors in play. Conditions were favourable for a far-right
insurgence. Yet if anything the Euro result shows the BNP has slipped back here
in the past 12 months. The  of last May's elections to the London Assembly
provides a useful comparison. The BNP got 5.42% of the 2.5 million votes cast,
enough to return its one assembly member, . This time at the polls, it got 4.9%
out of 1.75 million or so and will send no one to keep Griffin and Brons company
in Brussels. Even the small advance it did make compared with 2004 might have
been largely at Ukip's expense.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

All this suggests that the party's hopes of advancing across Greater London from
its Dagenham and Barking stronghold are small, and its credibility won't have
been enhanced by Barnbrook's uselessness or by its top Euro candidate (and
Barking-Dagenham group leader) Robert Bailey being . That's not to say there's
no BNP problem in London. There is, and it needs solving here in the capital
just as urgently as it does anywhere else - not just for Labour's sake, but for
Britain's.&nbsp;&nbsp;

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

BNP's Euro success should not shut door on voting reform

LENGTH: 1004 words

ABSTRACT

Lewis Baston: The two electoral systems most widely discussed for Westminster
are both less likely to elect extremists than first-past-the-post

FULL TEXT

As the dust settles on the county and European election results, one can take
stock of what they mean for the parties and politics over the next year and in
the long term.

The county elections are probably the more accurate measure of what might happen
in the next general election, because they use the same electoral system and the
considerations people have in mind when choosing their vote are more similar.

The county results point to the Conservatives being substantially ahead and in a
position to win the next general election, although they have less of a margin
of comfort than they did last year, when they were 43-23 ahead of Labour in
national vote share, rather than this year's 38-22. While Labour's vote
collapsed, the Conservative vote has been gently drifting downwards.

It is too easy to dismiss the Euro results as a freakish curiosity: while voters
perhaps behave oddly in European parliament elections, the results can be
consequential and indicative of future trends.

The 1979 European election produced a Conservative landslide, and the campaign
was marked by ludicrous Labour infighting, a prelude to the divisions and
disaster of the next four years. In 1984 Neil Kinnock proved that Labour was not
dead, and in 1989 Labour inflicted Margaret Thatcher's only defeat in a national
election. It was the first pillar of her rule to crumble; a botched reshuffle,
the resignation of the chancellor and a stalking-horse challenge followed by the
end of the year - and in 1990 she was out.

The 1989 election was also interesting for the 15% of the vote for the Greens,
and the Conservative tilt to Euroscepticism. In 1994 John Major did not do quite
badly enough to trigger a leadership challenge. In 1999 the Conservatives' win,
and the vote for Ukip, helped take joining the euro off the agenda, and the low
turnout and strong vote for smaller parties was a sign of what was to come,
confirmed by the fragmentation of the vote and the weak performance by both main
parties in 2004.

The 2009 European elections will surely be notable for more than confirmation of
existing trends away from the two (or three) principal British political
parties.

The pre-eminent fact is the astonishingly low Labour share of the national vote,
at 15.8%. Winning at the last general election in 2005, with 36% of the British
vote on a 61% turnout, showed that Labour was on thin ice. Euro 2009 may be an
important point on a long-term declining trend in Labour's vote and vote share
that has only been briefly interrupted for decades (in 1966, 1997, and arguably
1992).

The working-class vote is decreasing and becoming less unionised, less cohesive,
less loyal to a party and less inclined to turn out.

New Labour found a new, but fickle, group of voters to add to the declining
existing Labour electorate, but accelerated the alienation of the old core vote.
Now the New and Old Labour electorates are bleeding away at the same time and
the remnant of Labour stands cruelly exposed, unable even to win a plurality in
Wales.

It seems a particularly severe case of the malaise that has afflicted the
centre-left in other EU countries, including France and Germany (although
Spain's socialist government did not do too badly against a poor economic
backdrop). However, the saving grace for the left of British politics is that
the Conservatives are winning by default rather than because of a surge in their
own support.

The 2009 elections present a possible future for British politics in which the
Conservatives enjoy a huge parliamentary majority with only 35-40% support from
the voters and a progressive vote divided between Labour, the Liberal Democrats
and Greens, plus a more rightwing fringe vote split between Ukip and smaller
parties such as the English Democrats and the BNP.

This is, after all, what happened in a number of places last Thursday -
including the former Labour county of Staffordshire, where the party is now
fourth placed in seats, its three councillors outnumbered by four Lib Dems and
four Ukip politicians, not to mention 49 Conservatives.

Labour is probably protected from such an extreme wipe-out at Westminster level
because it has a number of very safe urban seats which would withstand even huge
swings, and the party's Euro vote seemed to hold up a little better in some of
these areas than it did in the counties.

The short-term reaction in some Labour circles, driven by an understandable
dislike of the BNP, has been that the European results should end discussion of
electoral reform for Westminster.

This would be a very short sighted approach. For a start, the systems most
widely discussed for Westminster - namely the Alternative Vote (AV), and AV with
a small proportional top-up as recommended by the Jenkins commission (AV+) - are
both less likely to elect extremists than the present first-past-the-post
system.

Other more proportional systems such as the Single Transferable Vote (STV)
create incentives for parties to campaign everywhere and not neglect areas;
electors who feel ignored are vulnerable to the appeal of extremists.

It is notable that although there was disenchantment with the governments and
traditional parties in Ireland and Malta, which use STV, in the European
elections, the reaction did not produce a swing to extremism.

However, a longer term perspective would suggest that the next centre-left
government after a Tory victory in 2010 might well not be a single-party Labour
majority (and if it is, it might be based on a share of the vote too small to
qualify as popular consent).

Electoral reform is more important than ever for the future of the centre-left
in British politics because the progressive side will probably never again be
marshalled behind a party as it was behind Labour in 1995-2003. Labour's future
needs to be plural and coalition-building, and electoral reform is a key part of
that future.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Europe vote leaves DUP struggling

LENGTH: 648 words

ABSTRACT

Mick Fealty: As its candidate just scrapes a seat in Europe, Northern Ireland's
DUP is threatened by a three-way split among unionists

FULL TEXT

In the last two years these islands have seen three technocrat PMs, FMs or
Taoisigh rise to the top of their political spheres. In each case, none of them
came to power by dint of a popular election, but rather by internal party
machinations after another, more popular, leader had won a national vote.

Each one is a modern personification of the servant who buried his master's
talents.

In the European and local elections across Britain and Ireland, each of one them
got their tails well and truly slapped by the electorate. Gordon Brown took his
party to historic lows, bolstering the fortunes of both Ukip and the BNP and
making a poor Tory performance look like a triumphal march.

Ireland's Taoiseach, Brian Cowen,  in half and lose its only MEP in Dublin to a
far-left socialist candidate, Joe Higgins. And for the first time since the
1920s, and through all the dreadful ups and downs of the Irish economy, his
party is no longer the most popular in the state.

Northern Ireland's first minister, , for so long Ian Paisley's deputy, only took
up the reigns of leadership at the DUP less than a year ago and has been found
severely wanting at his first electoral challenge. He has managed to lose more
than 40% of the vote his party received just two years ago to a challenge from
their estranged MEP, .

Thankfully for Robinson, his candidate, , made it across the finish line. But
only just.

Of course it is foolish to do a simple read across from European to Westminster
elections. But the emergence of a significant third force of anti-Agreement
unionism means that what previously seemed secure can no longer be taken for
granted.

There is a tranche of DUP seats now in peril for the next Westminster election;
some directly from Allister's  (North and East Antrim), others from a strong
nationalist surge in the likes of Upper Bann. And Lagan Valley and South Antrim
look vulnerable to a Ulster Unionist and TUV pincer attack.

Count that down, and the DUP would go from holding nine out of 10 unionist seats
to four out of a possible nine seats. There may be others I'm not taking account
of that could be vulnerable in a three-way unionist split if the incumbent were
to step down in the DUP's belated effort to dodge the tag of "".

Bear in mind too that the ructions in England today also mean that a Ulster
Unionist rally in fortunes (the party recently concluded an arcane deal that
means its members take the Tory whip in Westminster and Europe, but are not
actually Tories when they sit at Stormont) could bring it benefits from a rising
Tory tide in the next general election. And that election might come sooner
rather than later.
http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/local-national/devolved-policing-powers-v
ery-near-14292723.html

This is not, in the strictest sense, a defeat for the DUP. But a new party to
its nominal right has conjured itself out of the ether and eviscerated its
comfortable lead, dragging it from easy complacency to a near brush with
electoral death.

According to one liberal unionist I spoke to, the DUP is suffering the same
problem as David Trimble had (though this a very different configuration to
those days): when it had the opportunity to press on generously, it faltered.

Now the party lingers on a shaky rope bridge. The Ulster Unionists, heartened by
this result, may soon complete their transformation into the Ulster Tories, and
will be ahead of them beckoning them on (if they understand the best way to play
this game), with the TUV calling them back to the past.

I would not like to be in Robinson's shoes when this is over. His compensation:
that he is not (yet) Gordon Brown.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

An electoral debacle that might save Gordon Brown;
LEADING ARTICLE Voters reveal disenchantment with the PM and growing hostility
to Europe

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 961 words


Fears of a Labour meltdown, as it turned out, were not exaggerated. When the UK
results of the European elections were all finally in, the party had recorded
some of its poorest results not for 20 years, not for 50 years, but ever. And
there was worse: the more entrenched Labour was in any given region, the sharper
the fall in its support. Labour's vote collapsed right across the north. The
party came second to the SNP in Scotland and second in Wales to the
Conservatives - the Conservatives, for heaven's sake.

The catastrophe for Labour was undeniable; so much so that party spokespeople,
from Harriet Harman down, did not even try to spin it as other than "dismal". It
was a catastrophe, what is more, that spelled a future that could be even more
gloomy for the party that won power by a landslide in 1997. If Labour is losing
its heartland, what price a return to government?

But it is important to distinguish what messages the voting in the European
elections did and did not convey, before claims become facts and the wrong
lessons are learned. Chief seductive, but wrong, fact is that any one other
party did spectacularly well. In terms of share of the total vote, the results
for the other parties in the top six showed a remarkable consistency with the
results last time round.

Even the UK Independence Party, seen as a great victor on Sunday night, actually
saw its share of the vote rise by only 0.3 percentage points. In terms of share
of the vote, the Conservatives gained only 1 percentage point, while the Liberal
Democrats lost 1.2. The Greens did best, gaining 2.4 percentage points, but that
did not translate into more seats in the European Parliament, whereas Ukip's
higher vote did.

Which brings us to the second headline of the night, after Labour's disaster:
the election of the first - and second - British National Party MEPs. In
principle and in practice, there is no getting round it: this represents a
signal victory for the BNP and puts Britain's far right in the limelight as it
has not been for nigh on 80 years. There can be no doubt either that the
election of these two MEPs will be seen in places as lifting a taboo and making
an overtly racist somehow more acceptable. It will also give the BNP access to
the sort of financial and administrative support it can only have dreamt of as a
fringe party in the UK.

Dubious achievement

But the scale of the BNP's dubious achievement must also be put in perspective.
Across the country, the party's share of the vote increased by 1.3 percentage
points; that is less than, for instance, the increase in the vote for the
Christian Party, and slightly more than half the increase achieved by the
Greens. In the north west, where the party leader, Nick Griffin, won a seat,
their vote actually fell. The BNP won its seats in the European Parliament for
the same reason that the Conservatives and Ukip also appeared to do so well:
they rode to representation on the back of the Labour Party's debacle.

Taken together, though, the results for these parties say something that should
be of great concern for those who believe that the best prospects for Britain
lie in Europe and that the shape of the future is cooperation, not isolation. Of
those voters who have fallen out with Labour and did not stay at home last week,
the vast majority turned not to the Europhile Liberal Democrats, but to
Eurosceptic, even Europhobic parties, including ones with a distinctly
xenophobic tinge.

We know that such views - which combine hostility and suspicion towards
foreigners with a blind faith in the superiority of the British way of doing
things - exist in this country today, because their proponents seem increasingly
unashamed to voice them. But this is the very opposite of progress in the ever
more connected modern world. With the Conservatives withdrawing from the
centre-right EPP grouping in the European Parliament, the majority of British
MEPs will fall outside the EU mainstream. That cannot serve our national
interest.

The persistence, even growth, of Euro-phobia is something that sets Britain
apart from the majority of its European partners. And Labour, as a pro-Europe
governing party, deserves much of the blame. Not only has it failed abjectly to
champion the European cause over its 12 years in power, but it has done far too
little to nip the xenophobic tendency in the bud.

Eurosceptic trend

Notwithstanding the strong Eurosceptic strand in British politics, however, the
UK's overall voting pattern in EU elections seems to be growing increasingly
European. In most of the larger EU countries, the centre right performed
strongly - even where these parties were in government. The centre left, for its
part, fared abysmally, evidently unable to convince voters that it could have
handled the "crisis of capitalism" any more effectively than the centre right.
As in Britain, more voters resorted to the margins, but the gains of far-right
parties were more modest than expected. They gained seats in 10 of the 27 member
states, including the Netherlands, but suffered sharp losses in Belgium, France
and Poland. The next European Parliament's centre of gravity will be a little,
but not significantly, further to the right.

Viewed from Britain, of course, the relative consistency in Brussels has been
eclipsed by the drama in Britain, where the future of the Prime Minister was
seen to be - and last night remained - in play. Paradoxically, Labour's
disastrous showing could have saved Gordon Brown's skin for the moment, by
scaring rebelliously-minded MPs off a change of leader that could precipitate an
early election and unseat them. A day after learning that he had led his party
to its worst results on record, Gordon Brown may have that same debacle to thank
for his survival.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

NUMBERS OF THE DAY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 28 words


16.5

Percentage of votes cast for Ukip in the Euro elections, putting them second
behind the Conservatives

$1,464bn

Global military spending in 2008, up 45 per cent since 1999

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Labour hurtles into history's abyss;
It is the end of Britain's affair with Labour - but Ukip poses a real threat to
Cameron's Tories. By John Curtice

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 796 words


When the secrets of the European ballot boxes were unveiled on Sunday night,
they contained one message: the electorate has fallen out of love with Labour.

The results were remarkable for the similarity of the outcome to the result of
the last Euro election, but for one exception - a precipitous fall in Labour
support.

At 23 per cent, the 2004 baseline that Labour was defending already constituted
the party's worst performance in a nationwide election. It seemed like a floor
below which the party's support could not possibly fall. Yet this year it fell
by no less than seven points, to a little under 16 per cent.

Records tumbled. In Wales, Labour's share of the vote fell by 12 points,
enabling the Tories to gain first place on a vote increase of less than two
points. Labour has not lost an election in Wales since 1931, and then only to a
coalition of Conservatives and Liberals.

In Scotland, the SNP came first in a European election for the first time.
Labour's share of the vote, at just under 21 per cent, was lower than in any
election since it first began fighting elections as an independent party in
1918.

In Cornwall, part of the South West region, Labour came seventh, falling behind
even the local nationalists, Mebyon Kernow.

Labour spokespersons had a ready explanation for the disaster: that as the party
in office, it was paying the inevitable price for the recession and the public's
anger over the expenses scandal.

Trouble is, Labour's support rose last autumn when the credit crunch broke, and
the Conservatives avoided similar punishment for their involvement in the
expenses scandal. Perhaps a more convincing explanation is that the public has
lost confidence in the Government's ability to handle the two main problems
confronting it.

But if Labour had reason to regret the difference between the 2004 and 2009
results, the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives will have wished the result
had been more dis-similar. The relatively Europhile Liberal Democrats again
found the climate of Euro elections to be inhospitable. Their vote slipped by a
point and they finished an embarrassing fourth.

The Conservatives' vote did increase, but by only one point to a little under 29
per cent, well below what it needed to demonstrate it was on course for Downing
Street.

The obstacle in its way was Ukip, many of whose votes appear to have come from
those who might have been expected to vote Conservative. David Cameron must have
hoped his Eurosceptic stance would ensure that Ukip did not repeat its 2004
success of winning 16 per cent of the vote. But Ukip's vote edged up by 0.3 per
cent.

Ukip is unlikely to mount such a strong performance in a Westminster election.
But the credibility it has gained in this poll could increase its chances of
repeating in the next election its 2005 performance of winning just over 2 per
cent. In a tight election, the loss of votes this represents for the
Conservatives could prove critical. So, while Mr Brown may have been the most
embarrassed by Ukip on Sunday night, in the longer run it could be Mr Cameron
who will have most reason to regret their success.

The BNP made the breakthrough into parliamentary politics that its opponents had
feared, winning seats in the North West and Yorkshire & Humber. Its critical
attitude towards Muslims seems to have paid dividends again among working-class
voters in the North of England.

But the scale of the BNP's success should not be exaggerated. Its vote increased
by little more than one percentage point. Among the non-Westminster parties, it
was the Greens whose vote advanced most, though the two-point increase in its
support failed to bring them any reward in seats.

For some it will be the collective success of the smaller parties that is the
most striking outcome of the election. They won as much as two in every five
votes, even higher than the one in three votes they won in 2004. Here it would
seem is confirmation of the disenchantment with Westminster politics that has
been stimulated by the expenses scandal.

Any such disillusion does not seem to have discouraged voters from voting at
all. At 34.3 per cent the turnout was in line with the admittedly low norm for
European elections. This was a four-point drop on 2004 but nearly all of the
decline can be accounted for by the absence of postal ballots.

Britons may not have been rushing to the polls last week, but at least they did
not exhibit any new-found reluctance to participate in the democratic process.

John Curtice is a professor of politics at Strathclyde University

Alan Johnson - the broccoli of politics, easy to digest and delightfully
flavourless

Dominic Lawson, page 27

The rebels always find reason to delay, not least because they do not have the
support to make their move

Steve Richards, page 29

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Best not to count on those green shoots;
Outlook

BYLINE: Jeremy Warner

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1513 words


So the recession is over, and Alistair Darling, whose Budget forecasts for the
economy were ridiculed as optimistic to the point of delusion, may even turn out
to have been too pessimistic.

So says the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). OK,
so perhaps not quite, but there is a growing consensus in the City that the
economy has stopped contracting, and the OECD reports that a "possible trough"
has been reached in its analysis of forward-looking indicators for Britain and
other advanced economies.

Regrettably, this may not actually mean very much. The extremes of the economic
contraction shown in the last two quarters were caused largely by a violent
inventory adjustment, as across the supply chain businesses cut stocks to
counter shrinking credit and a plunge in demand. Once that process came to an
end, it was bound to cause some kind of a pick-up in economic activity. Yet it
is no guarantee of a durable recovery. With unemployment forecast to continue
growing sharply for at least the next year, it won't in any case feel like a
recovery to many.

What's more, this may be a case only of pain delayed, rather than cured
altogether. Much of the private debt overhang created by the credit boom remains
in place. The workout has only just begun. To this must now be added a mountain
of public debt, which will require perhaps years of austerity to pay off. It is
hard to imagine a sustained recovery taking hold against the backdrop of the
rising taxes and public spending cuts necessary to address this deficit.

The rest of the public policy response - exceptionally loose monetary conditions
- will also have to be reversed at some stage. Higher mortgage rates will
further squeeze disposable incomes. As can be seen, the case for a double-dip
recession, or W-shaped recovery, where the economy grows a bit before sinking
back again, is all too easy to make. The present crop of green shoots offers no
more than a glimmer of hope to the beleaguered Prime Minister, even if he can
hang on for the next year.

Taxpayer gets £2.3bn payback from Lloyds

Sometimes it seems there is no justice. First into the crisis and in many
respects the root cause of all our economic woes, the banks show every sign of
being first out. Investment banking profits are once more in fine fettle,
bonuses are returning, and in the US, banks are queuing up to repay the "Tarp"
money used barely more than six months ago to bail them out. Even in Britain,
share prices have recovered sufficiently to allow Lloyds Banking Group to
complete a rights issue and buy back £4bn of the preference shares the
Government vested in the combined Lloyds TSB/HBOS group at the height of the
banking crisis last October.

Some £1.7bn of the proceeds is being reinvested by UKFI in subscribing to its
share of the rights issue, so the net payback to the Government is "only"
£2.3bn. It's going to be a long old haul before the entire £17bn of taxpayers'
money used to bail out Lloyds Banking Group is repaid, and it will take even
longer to get back the £20bn of public money invested in Royal Bank of Scotland.

All the same, this is plainly a positive development for the banking sector as
it begins the long march back to financial health. Even as little as six months
ago, it would have been impossible for virtually any bank to access the stock
markets for extra capital. Yet last week we saw Abu Dhabi place its share stake
in Barclays at a bumper profit. Similarly in the US, stock markets again seem to
be open to banks to raise money so that the Tarp funds provided by the American
taxpayer can be repaid.

So extreme and unpredictable was the scale of the banking crisis we've just been
through that it would still be unwise to describe it as now largely over. Yet
though there is plainly a great deal of pain in terms of bad debt experience to
come, nobody believes any longer that a major bank is about to go bust or needs
to be nationalised outright.

Less easy to answer is whether more capital still is needed before the banks get
back to creating credit on the scale necessary to bring about a return to
sustained economic growth. In most banks, the main imperative is still that of
shrinking the balance sheet rather than expanding it.

Banking depends vitally on confidence to stay afloat. Once it goes, there is
almost no amount of capital that can guarantee a bank's safety. During the boom,
investors, depositors and indeed regulators, allowed banks to operate on
wafer-thin capital and nobody cared a fig about leverage, balance sheet
expansion and funding. During the bust, it went the other way, when even banks
with comparatively high levels of capital became vulnerable to a run.

Sentiment is now reviving again. The careless ways of the boom won't return for
many years. Even if markets felt minded and confident enough to recreate them,
regulators won't allow it. But spreads are narrowing again, credit markets are
reopening, and thanks in part to the Government's "asset protection scheme",
investors can feel more confident about the balance sheets of even the most
bombed-out banks.

The Government won't get credit for it, and it would obviously have been better
had the banking crisis not been allowed to develop in the first place, but the
way in which the authorities acted to underpin confidence as the crisis reached
its crescendo counts as a rare public policy success amid the present rubble,
which may even have prevented a bad recession from turning into a depression.

As for Lloyds, the bank is far from out of the woods. Lloyds will still be
lossmaking this year, even taking account of the nearly half a billion it will
save itself in coupon payments on the preference stock. Yet when the rights
issue was first launched in March, there was a widely held assumption that the
rights would be left with the Government, which was underwriting the issue. In
fact, the outcome could scarcely have been more positive.

To complete the picture of recovery, Lloyds needs a new chairman to replace Sir
Victor Blank, who is taking the bullet for the bank's disastrous merger with
HBOS. UKFI, which holds the Government's 43 per cent stake, would be happy with
an executive chairman, instead of the more usual non-executive, if the right
candidate could be found. Indeed, this is perhaps what the bank needs - a big
hitter - after all that's occurred. Might Mervyn (now Lord) Davies, former
chairman of Standard Chartered, be persuaded? He can't be much enjoying his new
role as Trade minister. Serving a government in its death throes was not what he
signed up for.

Tories must engage in Europe to defend the City

A bunker mentality has engulfed Downing Street which has sidelined virtually all
serious government. While Westminster burns, all manner of mischief is being
hatched in Brussels, some of it with serious long-term consequences for the City
and the UK economy.

No one seems to care. Everyone in Government is too busy contemplating their own
navels to worry about the bucketful of regulation which is about to be emptied
all over us.

The situation seems little better with the Tories, who perhaps make more natural
defenders of the City as a financial centre than Labour. By abandoning the
dominant centre-right alliance in the European Parliament - a promise made by
David Cameron to win the Eurosceptic vote in the leadership race - the
Conservatives have condemned themselves to the fringes of European politics,
where they will be aligned with some truly batty causes and be incapable of
influencing any of the really important matters affecting Britain.

Good, some will say. UKIP's success in the European elections confirms the
British nation's Eurosceptic sentiments. Yet the Tories are not for leaving
Europe altogether. They still want to engage, or so they claim. There is very
little chance of this from the sidelines on which they will be sitting.

Already there is a shining example of the potential damage to Britain. If the
Conservatives were to remain part of the centre-right alliance, it is probable
they would be one of two rapporteurs on the hedge fund and private equity
directive which Europeans still furious with the role played by Anglo-Saxon
financiers in the economic crisis are planning to inflict on the City. As
rapporteurs, they could have injected some sense and reason.

This is an extraordinarily misguided piece of legislation, but it is just the
start of what's planned. If Brussels gets its way, it will be all over the City
like a rash, and eventually Paris will steal London's position. Many Europeans
sense a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to assert their will over London's
financial markets. The credit crunch and now gathering political crisis seems to
have destroyed Britain's will to resist.

The supposed government-in-waiting seems not properly to recognise the dangers.
Rather, it has become like the naughty schoolboy who retreats to the back of the
class with a pea shooter. His antics may be amusing, and in the spirit of
anarchy even mildly admirable, but they are not ultimately likely to do Britain
any good.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Buoyant Cameron looks east to find Eurosceptic friends;
The Conservatives

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 473 words


THE TORIES aim to form a new Eurosceptic grouping at Brussels drawing heavily
from former Iron Curtain countries by the end of the month.

Following his party's strong showing in the European elections, David Cameron,
the party leader, made clear he remained determined to press ahead with the
controversial move.

The Conservatives will be filling 25 of the 72 British seats in the Brussels
parliament after they picked up 27.7 per cent of the popular vote.

The party performed strongly across England and Wales, although its vote fell
slightly in Scotland, and even topped the poll in Wales for the first time since
the 19th century.

Mr Cameron is now preparing to ally the Conservatives with right-wing parties in
Poland and the Czech Republic opposed to closer European integration. Other
potential partners could be sought in Belgium, Bulgaria and Latvia.

Internal critics warn that the move to pull the party out of the main
centre-right grouping in Brussels - the European People's Party - could
marginalise it. But senior Tories insist the new grouping, with the
Conservatives filling the largest bloc of seats, will more accurately reflect
the party's anti-federalist agenda.

One of its potential partners - the Law and Justice party in Poland - has been
accused of tolerating discrimination against homosexuals.

Vaclav Klaus, the founder of another possible ally - the Civic Democratic Party
in Poland - has questioned climate change.

Under EU rules, a political grouping has to have at least 25 MEPs drawn from
seven countries to qualify as a "group". Some Tory MPs have questioned whether
Mr Cameron can find politically unembarrassing partners from that number of
nations.

However, a senior party official insisted last night: "We are very happy with
the numbers."

George Osborne, the shadow Chancellor, told the BBC: "We are going to form a
strong group in the European Parliament. We hope other people will come and join
us."

The Tories declared themselves satisfied with their showing in the European
election, even though their vote share only rose by one percentage point
compared with the last elections to the Brussels parliament.

The party was hit, however, by the Commons expenses row which featured lavish
claims by Conservative MPs. The UK Independence Party (Ukip) appeared to have
won over hundreds of thousands of disaffected Tories last week; the Cameron team
is optimistic that they will come back on board at the next election.

The Tories came first in 17 Welsh parliamentary constituencies, including
Labour-held seats like Alyn and Deeside and Wrexham.

Mr Cameron said: "There will be a great toppling of Labour MPs if these results
were copied at a general election. He said voters were leaving Labour having
been "treated like fools" by the Government and were now "responding to the
values of the modern Conservative Party".

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Lucas eyes a seat in the Commons;
Green Party

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 167 words


DESPITE taking only two seats in the European Parliament, the Green Party
believes it is better positioned than ever to capture a seat in the Commons at
the next election.

The reduction in the overall number of MEPs meant the Greens needed to improve
their vote just to hold on to the two seats they won five years ago.

In the South East, the party increased its share of the vote by half, from 8 per
cent to 12 per cent, pushing Labour into fifth place. That ensured that the
party leader, Caroline Lucas, held her seat.

Jean Lambert also held a seat in London, where the Greens beat Ukip to fourth
place, with 11 per cent of the vote. The party's vote across Britain rose from
6.2 per cent in 2004 to 8.7 per cent.

It narrowly missed picking up seats in the North West and Yorkshire, where it
lost to the BNP, and in the East, where it won 9 per cent of the vote.

The party came first in Brighton and Hove, putting Caroline Lucas in pole
position to take Brighton Pavilion from Labour at the general election.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Johnson would deny Tories outright victory;
'Independent' poll reveals that new leader could transform Labour's prospects
Exclusive Johnson is only alternative to give Labour a fighting chance

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1554 words


Alan Johnson would deny David Cameron an overall majority at the next general
election if Labour ditched Gordon Brown and installed him as prime minister,
according to a new poll for The Independent.

The ComRes survey provides the first evidence that a change of leader could
dramatically transform Labour's prospects. The findings were described as
"stunning" by rebel Labour MPs last night. They believe it could influence
Labour's agonised debate over whether it should back or sack the beleaguered
Prime Minister.

Under Mr Brown's leadership, the Conservative Party would win an overall
majority of 74, according to ComRes. But if Mr Johnson, the Home Secretary,
replaced Mr Brown, the Tories would be six seats short of a majority in a hung
parliament - raising the prospect of a deal between Labour and the Liberal
Democrats to keep the Tories out. Mr Johnson is the only one of eight possible
Labour leaders who could prevent an outright Tory victory. Under Jack Straw,
David Miliband, Jon Cruddas, Ed Balls, Harriet Harman, James Purnell or Mr
Brown, Mr Cameron would win a majority of between 10 and 94, ComRes found.
Significantly, Labour would do better under Mr Straw, Mr Miliband, Mr Cruddas
and Mr Balls than under Mr Brown.

Mr Johnson is also the most popular of the eight contenders among people who
regard themselves as natural Labour supporters and among people who backed the
party at the last general election. Charles Clarke, who called on the Prime
Minister to stand down at a packed meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party
(PLP) last night, said of the ComRes survey: "This poll is the convincing
evidence that Labour needs a serious and considered debate about its future
direction and leadership."

Labour MPs recalled that similar polls, suggesting that a change of leader would
revive Tory fortunes, contributed to Margaret Thatcher's ousting by her
backbenchers and ministers in 1990. Mr Brown was cheered as he arrived at what
had been billed as a meeting that could decide his fate. There was unusually
candid criticism during the heated 90-minute session as three former ministers -
Fiona McTaggart, Tom Harris and Mr Clarke - told him to his face the fact that
he should stand down. Siobhain McDonagh, a former whip, also called on Mr Brown
to go.

The Prime Minister won the backing of most of those present. Striking a note of
humility, he told the meeting: "I have my strengths and I have my weaknesses. I
know I do some things well and some things I don't do well. But I've learnt that
I have to keep listening all the time."

Mr Brown promised to consult more widely inside his party, run a more collective
leadership and to be more open and transparent in the way he ran Downing Street.
He pledged to be a full-time Labour leader as well as a full-time Prime
Minister.

Dismissing calls for his resignation, he said: "You solve the problem not by
walking away but by facing it, doing something about it." He warned that
previous Labour governments had been brought down by a combination of economic
problems and party disunity. He insisted there were no huge ideological
differences within the party, telling the meeting: "There isn't a resignation
letter I have seen that mentions policy differences."

He insisted he was not begging for unity but was "making an argument for unity",
adding: "I am here because of what I am and what I can offer to this progressive
age because I know what needs to be done."

A string of Labour grandees, led by the former leader Lord Kinnock, rallied
support behind the Prime Minister. He warned that divisions equalled the "death
penalty" in politics.

David Blunkett, the former Home Secretary, told the rebels they had 24 hours to
"put up or shut up," warning: "We cannot take this blood-letting any longer."

Brown allies said afterwards they were confident he would survive and claimed
the plot to unseat him was fizzling out. Some potential rebels admitted it might
be put on hold until the autumn, despite Labour's disastrous performance in the
European elections, in which it came third behind Ukip after winning on a
historic low 15 per cent of the vote.

The Prime Minister's attempt to steady the ship ran into more problems when Jane
Kennedy, an Environment minister, refused to serve in his administration. She
accused Mr Brown of sanctioning smear campaigns against Labour politicians and
the undermining of his critics.

Stephen Byers, the Blairite former cabinet minister told the meeting staged by
the modernisers group Progress last night: "We need a leader who regards Labour
Party members as assets to be valued. A leader who sees Labour MPs as colleagues
to be worked with and not threats to be briefed against... A leader who is
decisive and not timid. Who can inspire and take our country through these
difficult times. We need a leader who can win for Labour at the next general
election and not take us to a humiliating defeat. Gordon Brown is not that
leader."

Mr Byers added: "Gordon Brown knows who will pay the real price of a Labour
defeat. So for those people, families and communities who need a Labour
government to protect and promote their interests, Gordon Brown should stand
down now as Labour leader and Prime Minister."

Frank Field, another former minister, said: "Labour cannot win with the present
Prime Minister. I was one of the seven who would not support his coronation
after Tony Blair was shoehorned out of No 10. But even I didn't think a Brown
administration would be as inept as this one."

The ComRes poll puts the Tories on 38 per cent (up eight points since its last
survey a week earlier), Labour on 22 per cent (no change), the Liberal Democrats
on 20 per cent (up two points) and other parties on 20 per cent (down 10
points).

The C2 skilled manual workers and people in the bottom DE social group are twice
as likely to vote Tory than Labour, confirming that Mr Brown's party has
suffered disproportionately from the scandal over MPs' expenses.

The Tories retain the support of 88 per cent of those who voted for them at the
2005 general election, while 63 per cent of Labour voters would back the party
in an election now. So would 74 per cent of those who endorsed the Liberal
Democrats.

Last night, some Brown critics acknowledged that the rebellion was fading. One
left-winger said: "He has probably done enough. The idea of an early general
election is terrifying colleagues."

One leading rebel said: "I'm pretty pessimistic. I think Gordon's going to
survive, but discontent will rumble on. There will be simmering disharmony. That
is the worst possible scenario for the Labour Party.

"My gut instinct tells me that the carrots and severe sticks from No 10 and the
whips have persuaded people to move over. People are being threatened with being
smeared in the tabloids if they didn't fall into line."

ComRes telephoned 1,001 GB adults between June 5-7, 2009. Data were weighted by
past vote recall. ComRes is a member of the British Polling Council and abides
by its rules.

Election Special

Minister quits over Brown's

'rule by smear' Pages 4&5

John Curtice Page 8

Full results Page 9

Simon Carr Page 10

How Europe voted Pages 11-13

Dominic Lawson Page 27

Leading article Page 28

Steve Richards Page 29

BNP tries to build extremist bloc

Pages 6&7

This wasn't the triumph Griffin had been hoping for Glenda Jackson, pages 6&7

Labour hurtles into history's abyss John Curtice, page 8

How the UK voted

Page 9

The ants go marching one by one, hurrah

Simon Carr, Sketch, Page 10

Independent poll

Which leader would put the smile back on Labour's face?

1st

Alan Johnson

HOME SECRETARY

Man most likely to succeed Gordon Brown if he is toppled before general
election.

Election result with him as leader:

Con 36% Labour 26% Lib Dems 19% Con six seats short of majority.

Support among Labour identifiers: 76%

2nd

Jack Straw

JUSTICE SECRETARY

His withdrawal of support could finish Brown.

Election result with him as leader: Con 36% Labour 25% Lib Dems 19%

Con majority of 10

Support among Labour identifiers: 71 per cent

3rd

David Miliband

FOREIGN SECRETARY

Raised profile last summer but campaign faltered

Election result with him as leader: Con 37% Labour 25% Lib Dems 19%

Con majority: 30 Support among Labour identifiers: 73%

4th

Jon Cruddas

BACKBENCHER

Turned down ministerial job and enjoys support on left of party.

Election result with him as leader: Con 36% Labour 22% Lib Dems 21%

Con majority of 42.

Support among Labour identifiers: 69 per cent

5th

Ed Balls

SCHOOLS SECRETARY

Brown's favoured successor. Ambition to become Chancellor.

Election result with him as leader: Con 37% Labour 23%

Lib Dems 20%

Con majority of 46

Support among Labour identifiers: 67 per cent

6th

Gordon Brown

PRIME MINISTER

Hoping to see off plotters as Cabinet did not join revolt

Election result with him as leader: Con 38% Labour 22% Lib Dems 20%

Con majority: 74

Support among Labour identifiers: 71 per cent

7th

Harriet Harman

DEPUTY LEADER

Would be strong candidate in full-scale leadership contest.

Election result with her as leader: Con 38% Labour 22% Lib Dems 20%

Con majority of 74

Support among Labour identifiers: 67 per cent

8th

James Purnell

FORMER CABINET MINISTER

Blairite who quit as Work and Pensions Secretary last Thursday. Would win
respect if Brown was ousted.

Election result with him as leader:

Con 38% Labour 21% Lib Dems 21%

Con majority of 94

Support among Labour identifiers: 66 per cent

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

If Gordon Brown can survive this, he can survive anything;
Analysis

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 770 words


Labour MPs, including some ministers, are in agony. They are having sleepless
nights and dark long days as they worry about whether to go public in calling on
Gordon Brown to stand down.

Some ministers who have just agreed to serve in his Government wonder whether
they have done the right thing. Labour isn't on the verge of a nervous
breakdown. It is in the middle of one.

If Gordon Brown can survive this, he can survive anything. Incredibly, close
allies insist he is calm. The man who throws mobile phones around when things go
wrong has somehow found even deeper reserves of resilience to get him through
this crisis.

Labour's agony has been deepened by the results of the European Parliament
elections. To finish third behind Ukip, described as "loonies and fruitcakes and
closet racists" by David Cameron, was bad enough. To lose two seats to the
extreme-right British National Party as the Labour vote collapsed in its
heartlands rubbed salt into the wounds.

There was a 12 per cent swing from Labour to the Tories since the last general
election. On that basis, six cabinet ministers would lose their seats - the
Chancellor Alistair Darling (in Edinburgh South West), the Justice Secretary
Jack Straw (Blackburn), the Schools Secretary Ed Balls (Morley and Outwood), the
Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy (East Renfrewshire), the Communities Secretary
John Denham (Southampton Itchen) and the Culture Secretary Ben Bradshaw
(Exeter).

As Labour is quick to point out, we cannot translate a mid-term election fought
under proportional representation to a general election in which voters would be
choosing a government. The smaller parties, having reaped the benefit from the
MPs' expenses scandal, would surely slip back, Labour officials argue.

However, some Labour MPs believe privately that the expenses controversy is a
convenient excuse for the Brownites. They accept that Labour has taken the
biggest hit as the governing party, but are not sure it would have done much
better in last Thursday's elections if the scandal had not erupted.

One Labour backbencher said the mood among grass roots party activists was
different to last year, when they warned MPs to stop their damaging infighting -
a traditional moan. "This time they are saying 'for God's sake do something, we
have got to change the leader'," she said.

Luckily for Mr Brown, the rebels plotting his downfall are divided among
themselves about how to proceed and this may yet save him (again). There is no
sign yet of the round-robin letter calling on Mr Brown to quit which they were
organising last week. Nor of the further cabinet-level resignation they
desperately hoped to see, after James Purnell's spectacular walkout last
Thursday. The critics cannot even organise chaos. What we have is disorganised
chaos and it is sending a terrible signal to the public.

As Labour whips went into overdrive to quash the revolt yesterday, there was
brave talk as some rebels talked of putting off the coup until the autumn. They
argued that Labour would not then need to call a special conference to approve a
leadership contest because its annual conference takes place in September.
However, it would still require the backing of 70 MPs for a single candidate to
ensure a motion calling for an election goes before the conference. That could
be a tall order.

The other benefit, say some plotters, is that an incoming leader could avoid a
general election this year by naming a date next spring. By then, economic green
shoots might give Labour an outside chance of victory, the argument runs.
Perhaps Mr Brown will fall on his sword if he fails to close the gap in the
opinion polls, some Labour folk say. A more likely scenario is that senior
cabinet ministers decide he has used his last life.

Other Labour MPs dream that Mr Brown will be able to "turn things round" with a
policy blitz. But few really believe it. Despite the despair that they are
sleepwalking to defeat under him, the prospect of an early general election
under a new leader has scared many of them off. Turkeys do not want an early
Christmas, even if they know it will come eventually. So Houdini escapes again,
just when his critics had him trapped.

Party leaders would be very wrong to assume that people will have forgotten
about the expenses scandal by the general election. I doubt that the sacking of
a few MPs, the repayment of a few thousand pounds and a new code of conduct for
MPs will ensure the storm blows over. "People will still look at us differently
at the general election; we can't wipe the slate clean," one minister admitted
yesterday. "Something very big has changed."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

After the feud, second placed with 13 seats;
Ukip

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 150 words


THE UK Independence Party said yesterday that it had proved it was "no flash in
the pan" after beating Labour to come second in the election to the European
Parliament.

The anti-EU fringe party won 13 seats, its best showing ever. It won just under
16.6 per cent of the popular vote, up 0.4 points on what it polled at the last
European election.

In 2004, Ukip was boosted by the arrival of the former daytime TV presenter
Robert Kilroy-Silk. This time, it has recovered from scandals and internal feuds
to demonstrate that it is still in business.

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, claimed his party could have done better if the
issue of Europe, rather than MEPs' expenses, had dominated the campaign. Ukip
has had its share of financial scandals, losing two of the 12 Ukip MEPs elected
in 2004. Ashley Mote was convicted in 2007 of benefit fraud and Tom Wise has
been charged with fraud and money laundering.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 2 Star Edition

PREACHERS OF HATRED;
THE TRUTH ABOUT FASCIST NATIONAL FRONT PAST OF BRITAIN'S TWO NEW BNP MEMBERS IN
EUROPE

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS;TOM PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1548 words


NEWLY-elected BNP Euro MPs Andrew Brons and Nick Griffin like to present
themselves as plain-speaking politicians eager to put across the ordinary man
and woman's point of view.

But this chilling picture exposes them for what they truly are, vile prophets
who preach a Nazi-style doctrine of racial hatred.

It shows Brons and Griffins doing their utmost to incite prejudice at a National
Front rally in 1981.

Brons, holding the microphone, and Griffin, the scowling man on his left, were
prominent members of the NF, which was notorious for extreme racism and
violence.

Three years after this picture was taken in Fulham, Brons was convicted of
behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace.

He and another NF member were in Leeds shouting slogans such as "death to Jews",
"white power" and "National Front".

Brons, who as education officer hosted seminars claiming racism had a
"scientific basis", resigned as NF chairman in 1984. He has been a BNP member
for at least four years.

Griffin, now 50, also later left the NF and joined the BNP, becoming its leader.

Nowadays, their racism is more subtle - but it is no less revolting. In the Euro
elections Griffin picked up a seat in the North West and Brons got one in
Yorkshire and Humber . But their party's share of the vote in those regions was
actually down on the 2004 Euro elections. Griffin and Brons sneaked in only
because Labour's vote collapsed disastrously in two of its traditional
heartlands.

In the wake of their election, more examples of their past emerged yesterday.
Brons, 61, once said bombing British Jews would be "well intentioned" in a
letter to a fellow extremist.

He said his only concern was the attacks might hurt their cause. After meeting
another fascist, Brons wrote: "He mentioned bombing synagogues. Although he is
well-intentioned I feel our public image may suffer."

He sent the letter in 1965 to facist Francoise Dior. She was later convicted of
arson attacks on Jewish buildings. One attack left a student dead and a second
seriously injured.

Brons also wrote he was sending cash for a black swastika badge and other Nazi
material.

He said he hoped to recruit by "exhibiting stickers, posters and slogans."

Griffin yesterday tried to play down Brons' sick past as they gloated over their
triumph.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "He was a member of some crazy little
far-right sect when he was a 17-year-old. He is now in his early 60s. That is an
awful long time ago."

Griffin added: "You can only talk about that if every time you talk to someone
in the Labour Party you also talk about Peter Hain's record spreading tacks and
broken glass on rugby pitches decades ago." He was referring to Hain's
anti-apartheid campaigning in the 1970s.

But Gerry Gable, of anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, which obtained his letter
to Dior, said: "He has been a bad boy for a long time and I don't believe he has
changed his spots."

Preening Griffin yesterday declared the BNP wins, coming on a night when Labour
suffered it worst performance at the ballot box since 1910, meant a "huge change
in British politics".

Hundreds of people protested during anti-BNP rallies in Manchester, Liverpool,
Sheffield, Preston and York last night.

Student Natasha Lasham, 20, at the Manchester rally said: "It's a big shock."

BRONS EXPOSED 1 He joined the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement aged 17.

2 He became a prominent member of the National Front, famed for its extreme
racism and violence. 3 Brons became a member of the NF's "national directorate"
in 1974.

4 As NF education officer he ran sessions on racial nationalism, in which he
claimed that racism had a scientific basis.

5 He edited the NF's New Nation magazine with Richard Verrall, author of Did Six
Million Really Die?

6 Brons led a 1982 NF demo in Northfield. Fellow marchers chanted "We've got to
get rid of the blacks."

7 He was arrested selling papers in Leeds two years later with a group heard
shouting "Death to the Jews" and "White Power".

8 Brons was convicted of behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace and
fined pounds 50.

9 He finally quit as NF chairman later that year but was lured back into the BNP
in 2005.

10 He claimed to be an ex-university lecturer in a speech but actually was at a
Further Ed college.

GRIFFIN EXPOSED 1 He has boasted about reading Hitler's autobiography at just
13.

2 He got involved in far-right politics two years later when his dad Edgar took
him to NF meetings. 3 Griffin went on to become an ally of Roberto Fiore, a
convicted Italian terrorist.

4 Fiore was involved with the Armed Revolutionary Nuclei who helped bomb a train
station, killing 85. 5 In the UK Griffin emerged as leader of a core of
activists calling themselves "political soldiers".

6 Joined the BNP in 1995, editing The Rune which praised German wartime Waffen
SS.

7 He's attacked the Royal Airforce for bombing Nazi Germany.

8 At a demo at Coventry cathedral he accused British airmen of "mass murder".

9 Convicted of behaviour likely to incite racial hatred for publishing claims
the Holocaust never happened, he received a pounds 2,300 fine and suspended jail
sentence. 10 At trial he claimed the extermination of Jews and others was "a
mixture of Allied wartime propaganda, extremely profitable lie and a latter
witch-hysteria".WHO POLLED WHAT IN YOUR AREA 2 1 London South East SEATS10
TURNOUT: 2,334,858 37.5% SEATS: 8 TURNOUT: 1,751,026 33.3% Votes MEPs + or -
Votes MEPs + or - 3 2 111 422 +0.6 -3.5 -1.6 +2.5 -1.6 +0.9 27.4% 21.3% 13.7%
10.9% 10.8% 4.9% -0.4 -0.7 -1.2 +3.8 -5.4 +1.4 34.8% 18.8% 14.1% 11.6% 8.2% 4.4%
Conservative Labour Lib Dems Green Party UKIP BNP Conservative UKIP Lib Dems
Green Party Labour BNP 479,037 372,590 240,156 190,589 188,440 86,420 00000
812,288 440,002 330,340 271,506 192,592 101,769 00000 11 0 0 4 Easof England
South West 3 SEATS: 6 TURNOUT: 1,549,708 38.8% SEATS: 7 TURNOUT: 1,603,340 33.7%
+ 1 00 3 2 11 3 2 1 00 -1.3 -0.5 -1.2 +2.1 -6.8 +0.9 30.2% 22.1% 17.2% 9.3% 7.7%
3.9% Conservative UKIP Lib Dems Green Party Labour BNP +0.4 +0.0 -0.2 -5.8 +3.2
+1.7 31.2% 19.6% 13.8% 10.5% 8.8% 6.1% 468,742 341,845 266,253 144,179 118,716
60,889 Conservative UKIP Lib Dems Labour Green Party BNP 500,331 313,921 221,235
167,833 141,016 97,013 0000 0 -1 0 0 6 East Midlands 5 West Midlands SEATS: 5
TURNOUT: 1,228,065 37.1% SEATS: 6 TURNOUT: 1,413,036 34.8% 2 111 0 22 0 + 1 -1
00 +3.8 -4.1 -9.6 -0.6 +2.1 +1.4 30.2 16.9 16.4 12.3 8.7 6.8 Conservative Labour
UKIP Lib Dems BNP Green Party 370,275 206,945 201,984 151,428 106,319 83,939 -1
+ 1 0 +0.7 +3.8 -6.4 -1.7 +1.1 +1.1 28.1 21.3 17.0 12.0 8.6 6.2 Conservative
UKIP Labour Lib Dems BNP Green Party 396,847 300,471 240,201 170,246 121,967
88,244 11 0 0 Others OVER ALL RESULTS Number of votes, % share and how many
seats were won or lost Labour 2,381,760 15.7% 13 seats, -5 Lib Dems 2,080,613
13.7% 11 seats, +1 SNP: 321,007, 2.1% 2 seats, 0 Jury Team 78,569 United Kingdom
First 74,007 Libertas 73,544 IND-Jan Jananayagam 50,014 Pensioners Party 37,785
Mebyon Kernow 14,922 Animals Count 13,201 Scottish Socialist Party 10,404
IND-Duncan Robertson 10,189 IND-Peter Rigby 9,916 The Peace Party 9,534
IND-Katie Hopkins 8,971 Fair Play Fair Trade party 7,151 The Roman Party 5,450
IND-Steven Cheung 4,918 Socialist Party of GB 4,050 IND-Francis Apaloo 3,621 Yes
2 Europe 3,384 IND-Sohale Rahman 3,248 IND-Gene Alcantara 1,972 IND-Haroon Saad
1,603 Wai D 789 Plaid Cymru: 126,702, 0.8% 1 seats, 0 Green Party 1,303,745 8.6%
2 seats, 0 Labour. 2,381,760 English Democrat 279,801, 1.8% 0 seats, 0 UKIP
2,498,226 16.5% 13 seats, +1 Christian Party Christian Peoples Alliance.
249,493, 1.6% 0 seats, 0 BNP 943,598 6.2% 2 seats, +2 Socialist Labour Party:
173,115, 1.1% 0 seats, 0 No2EU. 153,236, 1.0% 0 seats, 0 11 9 10 8 7 6 5
Conservative 4,198,394 27.7% 25 seats, +12 3 4 1 2Yorks & Humber 8 SEATS: 6
TURNOUT: 1,226,180 32.3% 7 North West SEATS: 8 TURNOUT: 1,651,825 31.7% 2 111 0
-1 0 3 2 11 0 -1 0 -0.2 -7.5 +2.9 -2.4 +1.8 +2.8 24.5% 18.8% 17.4% 13.2% 9.8%
8.5% Conservative Labour UKIP Lib Dems BNP Green Party 299,802 230,009 213,750
161,552 120,139 104,456 +1.5 -6.9 +3.7 -1.6 +1.6 +2.1 Conservative Labour UKIP
Lib Dems BNP Green Party 423,174 336,831 261,740 235,639 132,094 127,133 25.6%
20.4% 15.8% 14.3% 8.0% 7.7% + 1 0 0 +1 0 0 Northern Ireland 10 SEATS: 3 TURNOUT:
488,891 42.8% North East 9 SEATS: 3 TURNOUT: 589,862 30.4% 111 Bairbre de Brún
SF 126,184 26% -0.3% Elected Diane Dodds DUP 88,346 18.2% -13.8% Elected Jim
Nicholson UCUNF 82,893 17.1% +0.5% Elected Alban Maginness SDLP 78,489 16.2%
+0.3% Jim Allister TUV 66,197 13.7% Ian James Parsley AP 26,699 5.5% Steven
Agnew GRN 15,764 3.3% +2.4% -9.1 +1.2 -0.2 +3.2 +2.5 +1.0 25.0% 19.8% 17.6%
15.4% 8.9% 5.8% Labour Conservative Lib Dems UKIP BNP Green Party 147,338
116,911 103,644 90,700 52,700 34,081 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 Wales 11 Scotland SEATS: 6
TURNOUT: 1,104,512 35% SEATS: 4 TURNOUT: 684,520 30.4 2 111 0 -1 0 + 1 00 11
+9.4 -5.6 -0.9 -1.6 +0.5 -1.5 +0.8 29.1% 20.8% 16.8% 11.5% 7.3% 5.2% 2.5% +1.8
-12.2 +1.1 +2.3 +0.2 +2.0 +2.5 21.2 20.3 18.5 12.8 10.7 5.6 5.4 SNP Labour
Conservative Lib Dems Green Party UKIP BNP 321,007 229,853 185,794 127,038
80,442 57,788 27,174 Conservative Labour Plaid Cymru UKIP Lib Dems Green Party
BNP 000000 145,193 138,852 126,702 87,585 73,082 38,160 37,114 00 00

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWER PAIR With wife Jackie yesterday 2009 HORROR Griffin's election in
North West was greeted with dread yesterday VILE Griffin on a march in 1983 2009
PLATFORM Brons, elected in Leeds yesterday, is now free to preach his far-right
drivel in Europe 1981 BILE Brons spouts racist filth while Griffin listens at an
NF rally in Fulham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Ulster Edition

PREACHERS OF HATRED;
THE TRUTH ABOUT FASCIST NATIONAL FRONT PAST OF THE UK'S TWO NEW BNP MEMBERS IN
EUROPE

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS ;TOM PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1541 words


TWO of the UK's new representatives in Europe stand on a platform in 1981 - to
speak for the reviled National Front.

Extremists Andrew Brons and Nick Griffin won their European Parliament seats
after Labour voters stayed at home.

Brons, holding the microphone at the rally 28 years ago, was a prominent member
of the NF, notorious for extreme racism and violence.

As their education officer he hosted seminars claiming racism had a "scientific
basis".

Three years after this picture was taken, in Fulham, West London, Brons was
convicted of behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace.

He and another NF member were in Leeds shouting slogans such as "death to Jews",
"white power" and "National Front".

SEWER When approached by PC John Raj, Brons said: "Inferior beings like yourself
probably do not understand the principle of free speech."

Brons resigned as NF chairman in 1984. He has been a BNP member for at least
four years.

Nick Griffin, 50, is the scowling man on Brons's left in the picture. He also
later left the NF and joined the BNP, becoming its leader.

Both were elected after adopting respectable appearances while spreading ideas
that have been dredged up from the sewer.

Brons, 61, once said bombing British Jews would be "well intentioned" in a
letter to a fellow extremist that emerged yesterday.

He said his only concern was that the attacks might hurt their cause. After
meeting another fascist, Brons wrote: "He mentioned bombing synagogues. Although
I realise he is well-intentioned. I feel our public image may suffer."

He sent the letter in 1965 after joining the National Socialist Movement at the
age of 17.

It was addressed to Francoise Dior, the wife of despised British fascist Colin
Jordan.

She was later convicted, with members of the NSM, of arson attacks on Jewish
buildings. A primary school was among the targets.

One attack on a London college left a student dead and a second seriously
injured.

Brons also wrote he was sending cash for a black swastika badge and other Nazi
material.

GLOATED He said he hoped to recruit by "exhibiting stickers, posters and
slogans."

Griffin, who has also been linked to a bomber, tried to play down Brons's sick
past as they gloated over their poll triumph.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "He was a member of some crazy little
far-right sect when he was a 17-year-old. He is now in his early 60s. That is an
awful long time ago."

Twisted Griffin added: "You can only talk about that if, for instance, every
time you talk to someone in the Labour Party you also talk about Peter Hain's
record spreading tacks and broken glass on rugby pitches decades ago."

He was referring to Hain's anti-apartheid campaigning in the 1970s.

But Gerry Gable, of anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, which obtained his letter
to Dior, said: "He has been a bad boy for a long time and I don't believe he has
changed his spots."

Preening Griffin declared their wins would mean a "huge change in British
politics".

In a low turnout it was Labour's worst performance at the ballot box since 1910.

But the BNP victories were greeted with horror by all mainstream parties.

The wins will mean a pounds 4million windfall for the racist party which only
whites can join.

Griffin has promised supporters they will funnel Brussels cash back into the
party.

BRONS EXPOSED 1 He joined the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement aged 17. 2 He
became a prominent member of the National Front, famed for its extreme racism
and violence. 3 Brons became a member of the NF's "national directorate" in
1974.

4 As NF education officer he ran sessions on racial nationalism, in which he
claimed that racism had a scientific basis.

5 He edited the NF's New Nation magazine with Richard Verrall, author of Did Six
Million Really Die?

6 Brons led a 1982 NF demo in Northfield. Fellow marchers chanted "We've got to
get rid of the blacks." 7 He was arrested selling papers in Leeds two years
later with a group heard shouting "Death to the Jews" and "White Power".

8 Brons was convicted of behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace and
fined pounds 50.

9 He finally quit as NF chairman later that year but was lured back into the BNP
in 2005.

10 He claimed to be an ex-university lecturer in a speech but actually was at a
Further Ed college.

GRIFFIN EXPOSED 1 He has boasted about reading Hitler's autobiography at just
13.

2 He got involved in far-right politics two years later when his dad Edgar took
him to NF meetings. 3 Griffin went on to become an ally of Roberto Fiore, a
convicted Italian terrorist.

4 Fiore was involved with the Armed Revolutionary Nuclei who helped bomb a train
station, killing 85. 5 In the UK Griffin emerged as leader of a core of
activists calling themselves "political soldiers". 6 Joined the BNP in 1995,
editing The Rune which praised German wartime Waffen SS. 7 He's attacked the
Royal Airforce for bombing Nazi Germany. 8 At a demo at Coventry cathedral he
accused British airmen of "mass murder".

9 Convicted of behaviour likely to incite racial hatred for publishing claims
the Holocaust never happened, he received a pounds 2,300 fine and suspended jail
sentence. 10 At trial he claimed the extermination of Jews and others was "a
mixture of Allied wartime propaganda, extremely profitable lie and a latter
witch-hysteria".WHO WON WHAT IN YOUR AREA 2 1 London South East SEATS10 TURNOUT:
2,334,858 37.5% SEATS: 8 TURNOUT: 1,751,026 33.3% Votes MEPs + or - Votes MEPs +
or - 3 2 111 422 +0.6 -3.5 -1.6 +2.5 -1.6 +0.9 27.4% 21.3% 13.7% 10.9% 10.8%
4.9% -0.4 -0.7 -1.2 +3.8 -5.4 +1.4 34.8% 18.8% 14.1% 11.6% 8.2% 4.4%
Conservative Labour Liberal Dems Green Party UKIP BNP Conservative UKIP Liberal
Dems Green Party Labour BNP 479,037 372,590 240,156 190,589 188,440 86,420 00000
812,288 440,002 330,340 271,506 192,592 101,769 00000 11 0 0 4 Easof England
South West 3 SEATS: 6 TURNOUT: 1,549,708 38.8% SEATS: 7 TURNOUT: 1,603,340 33.7%
+ 1 00 3 2 11 3 2 1 00 -1.3 -0.5 -1.2 +2.1 -6.8 +0.9 30.2% 22.1% 17.2% 9.3% 7.7%
3.9% Conservative UKIP Liberal Dems Green Party Labour BNP +0.4 +0.0 -0.2 -5.8
+3.2 +1.7 31.2% 19.6% 13.8% 10.5% 8.8% 6.1% 468,742 341,845 266,253 144,179
118,716 60,889 Conservative UKIP Liberal Dems Labour Green Party BNP 500,331
313,921 221,235 167,833 141,016 97,013 0000 0 -1 0 0 6 East Midlands 5 West
Midlands SEATS: 5 TURNOUT: 1,228,065 37.1% SEATS: 6 TURNOUT: 1,413,036 34.8% 2
111 0 22 0 + 1 -1 00 +3.8 -4.1 -9.6 -0.6 +2.1 +1.4 30.2 16.9 16.4 12.3 8.7 6.8
Conservative Labour UKIP Liberal Dems BNP Green Party 370,275 206,945 201,984
151,428 106,319 83,939 -1 + 1 0 +0.7 +3.8 -6.4 -1.7 +1.1 +1.1 28.1 21.3 17.0
12.0 8.6 6.2 Conservative UKIP Labour Liberal Dems BNP Green Party 396,847
300,471 240,201 170,246 121,967 88,244 11 0 0 Others Labour 2,381,760 15.7% 13
seats -5 Liberal Dems 2,080,613 13.7% 11 seats +1 SNP: 321,007 2.1% 2 seats 0
Jury Team 78,569 United Kingdom First 74,007 Libertas 73,544 IND-Jan Jananayagam
50,014 Pensioners Party 37,785 Mebyon Kernow 14,922 Animals Count 13,201
Scottish Socialist Party 10,404 IND-Duncan Robertson 10,189 IND-Peter Rigby
9,916 The Peace Party 9,534 IND-Katie Hopkins 8,971 Fair Play Fair Trade party
7,151 The Roman Party 5,450 IND-Steven Cheung 4,918 Socialist Party of GB 4,050
IND-Francis Apaloo 3,621 Yes 2 Europe 3,384 IND-Sohale Rahman 3,248 IND-Gene
Alcantara 1,972 IND-Haroon Saad 1,603 Wai D 789 Plaid Cymru: 126,702 0.8% 1 seat
0 Labour. 2,381,760 Green Party 1,303,745 8.6% 2 seats 0 English Democrat
279,801 1.8% 0 seat 0 UKIP 2,498,226 16.5% 13 seats +1 Christian Party Christian
Peoples Alliance. 249,493 1.6% 0 seat 0 BNP 943,598 6.2% 2 seats +2 Socialist
Labour Party: 173,115 1.1% 0 seat 0 11 No2EU. 153,236 1.0% 0 seat 0 9 10 8 7 6 5
12 Conservative 4,198,394 27.7% 25 seats +1 3 4 1 2Yorks & Humber 8 SEATS: 6
TURNOUT: 1,226,180 32.3% 7 North West SEATS: 8 TURNOUT: 1,651,825 31.7% 2 111 0
-1 0 3 2 11 0 -1 0 -0.2 -7.5 +2.9 -2.4 +1.8 +2.8 24.5% 18.8% 17.4% 13.2% 9.8%
8.5% Conservative Labour UKIP Liberal Dems BNP Green Party 299,802 230,009
213,750 161,552 120,139 104,456 +1.5 -6.9 +3.7 -1.6 +1.6 +2.1 Conservative
Labour UKIP Liberal Dems BNP Green Party 423,174 336,831 261,740 235,639 132,094
127,133 25.6% 20.4% 15.8% 14.3% 8.0% 7.7% + 1 0 0 +1 0 0 Northern Ireland 10
SEATS: 3 TURNOUT: 488,891 42.8% North East 9 SEATS: 3 TURNOUT: 589,862 30.4% 111
Bairbre de Brún SF 126,184 26% -0.3% Elected Diane Dodds DUP 88,346 18.2% -13.8%
Elected Jim Nicholson UCUNF 82,893 17.1% +0.5% Elected Alban Maginness SDLP
78,489 16.2% +0.3% Jim Allister TUV 66,197 13.7% Ian James Parsley AP 26,699
5.5% Steven Agnew GRN 15,764 3.3% +2.4% +0.6 -3.5 -1.6 +2.5 -1.6 +0.9 25.0%
19.8% 17.6% 15.4% 8.9% 5.8% Labour Conservative Liberal Dems UKIP BNP Green
Party 147,338 116,911 103,644 90,700 52,700 34,081 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 Wales 11
Scotland SEATS: 8 TURNOUT: 1,651,825 28.5% SEATS: 4 TURNOUT: 684,520 30.4 2 111
0 -1 0 + 1 00 11 +9.4 -5.6 -0.9 -1.6 +0.5 -1.5 +0.8 29.1% 20.8% 16.8% 11.5% 7.3%
5.2% 2.5% +1.8 -12.2 +1.1 +2.3 +0.2 +2.0 +2.5 21.2 20.3 18.5 12.8 10.7 5.6 5.4
SNP Labour Conservative Liberal Dems Green Party UKIP BNP 321,007 229,853
185,794 127,038 80,442 57,788 27,174 Conservative Labour Plaid Cymru UKIP
Liberal Dems Green Party BNP 000000 145,193 138,852 126,702 87,585 73,082 38,160
37,114 00 00

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWER PAIR With wife Jackie yesterday 2009 HORROR Griffin's election in
North West was greeted with dread VILE Griffin on an NF march in 1983 2009
PLATFORM Brons free to preach his far-right drivel in Europe as Labour voters
stayed at home 1981 BILE Brons spouts racist filth while Griffin listens at an
NF rally in Fulham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Britain - Labour trounced in European elections

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 381 words


The full extent of the damage done to Labour over MPs' expenses and mass
ministerial resignations became apparent yesterday with the party suffering its
worst ever defeat at the European elections.

Coming on the back of a massacre at the local elections, the results, which saw
Labour limp into third place behind the Tories and the UK Independence Party
(UKIP), plunged the party further into crisis.

Even more galling was the fact that a vastly reduced Labour vote assisted the
far right in scoring its first victories, as the fascist BNP claimed two Euro
scalps in the North West and Yorkshire and Humber regions.

The Tories and Lib Dems were also hit by the fall-out of the expenses scandal
and fared worse than expected.

The only chink of light for Labour was its retention of the North-East seat
where Stephen Hughes topped the poll, albeit with a significantly reduced
majority.

Elsewhere, it was a grim night for Labour. The party lost its only MEP in the
South West region, finishing in fifth place behind UKIP and the Green Party.

Labour was relegated into third place in the West Midlands - winning just one of
six seats available - with the UKIP capitalising on its loss. The Tories and
UKIP both won two seats and the Lib Dems took one.

The Tories comfortably won in the nation's capital, claiming three seats while
Labour dropped a seat leaving it with two. The Lib Dems, Greens and UKIP each
took a seat.

But perhaps the direst results and those with the most serious implications were
in the North West and Yorkshire and Humber. In the latter constituency, the BNP
received 120,139 votes, securing its first ever MEP and taking a seat from
Labour.

The BNP achieved 16 per cent of the vote in Barnsley, nearly 12 per cent in
Doncaster and 15 per cent in Rotherham - all Labour strongholds.

Commenting on the election of fascist candidate Andrew Brons, Labour MP for
Dewsbury Shahid Malik said: "Yorkshire is renowned for fair play and decency. I
hope many Yorkshire voters will examine their consciences."

The BNP scored its second victory in the North West, where party leader Nick
Griffin benefited from a Labour vote which halved in some areas.

The Tories won three seats for the region while Labour won two, with one each
for UKIP, the Lib Dems and the BNP.

paddym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday

Comment - It's not at all as it appears

LENGTH: 615 words


It was a good election night for the scumbags of the right wing today.

The fascist BNP scored two seats in the European Parliament, while the UKIP
absconders from the Tory Party pushed Labour into third place in the polls
across England and their ex-mates in the Tory Party proper pushed Labour into
second place in Wales for the first time since 1918.

But let's not be fooled about why this happened.

There was no mass Pauline conversion of working people to fascism. The BNP
overall vote increased, it is true, from 808,200 in 2004 to 943,598 this year,
but this is hardly a massive movement in terms of an electorate of nearly 45
million.

In fact, BNP fuehrer Nick Griffin was elected to the European Parliament on
fewer votes than he polled in 2004. That year, the BNP in the North West polled
134,959 votes. In 2009, they polled 132,194.

He won because the Labour vote plummeted from 576,388 in 2004 to 336,831 in
2009. There was not even much shift towards the Tories or Lib Dems.

The Conservative vote, in fact, fell from 4,397,090 in 2004 to 4,198,394 this
year, while the Lib Dem vote fell 2,452,327 to 2,080,613.

But the truly significant figure in this election was the Labour Party vote.
That fell catastrophically from 3,718,683 to 2,381,760, almost the same amount
that the overall total vote declined. And no amount of chatter about the MP
expenses scandal disproportionately affecting the ruling party can explain that.

The Tories' and the Lib Dems' hands are just as dirty as Labour in that regard,
if not more so. Undoubtedly, there was a measure of disaffection from
Westminster politics from this, but one could reasonably expect that to affect
all the Westminster parties fairly equally.

And, again, one might expect UKIP to benefit from not being tainted by the
Westminster effluvium.

So, what was it that hit Labour so hard in this election, if all the excuses
that its pathetic excuse for a leadership made are irrelevant?

It's a question that isn't that difficult to answer and that answer is the
policies.

All the nonsense about Prime Minister Gordon Brown and whether he is the right
man to lead the Labour Party to an almost inconceivable victory in the coming
election or whether some more palatable political clone should be substituted is
really just so much window dressing.

Nobody will reverse the declining fortunes of Labour with the policies of new
Labour as their only weapon. Certainly, the government cannot expect many votes
from the LDV Vans workers who are facing a jobless future today.

And Business Secretary Peter Mandelson won't be doing Labour any favours with
his sit-on-the-sidelines strategies as far as Vauxhall workers are concerned.

The 300 Indesit workers at Kinmel Park in Bodelwyddan won't be rushing to the
polls to back Labour either, since the government commitment to EU free market
policies has led to it failing to block the transfer of their work to Poland,
especially since its supine indifference to the lack of protection for British
workers leaves them open to redundancy at the drop of a hat.

But Labour appears to be indifferent to that and, instead, is committed to more
of the same old EU-inspired free market nonsense that is costing tens of
thousands of jobs every month.

If Labour won't budge, however, it is going to be up to the unions to make it.
It's long past time that the unions told Labour that support goes both ways and,
if the party wants union support, it's going to have to earn it with policies to
benefit workers.

Only then will the rank and file trade union members return to the fold. If you
want to win, Mr Brown, remember that someone has to decide the policies, and
they're not for you to decide but for the voters.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

BNP set for £4m Euro win

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 148 words


THE British National Party will pocket nearly £4MILLION of taxpayers' cash after
winning two seats in Europe.

The far-right party's new pair of MEPs Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons will be
able to claim around £395,000 a year each in pay and lucrative allowances.

The windfall will be a huge boost to the racists who got nearly 950,000 votes
across Britain.

Party leader Griffin was elected in the North West, while Brons won in Yorkshire
and Humber as Labour's vote collapsed.

Labour plunged to just 15.7 per cent in the polls, its worst result in 100
years, and was pushed into third place by UKIP.

The Tories enjoyed a relatively good night and saw their vote increase to 27.4
per cent. But David Cameron failed to get the big breakthrough he had hoped for.

Welsh Secretary Peter Hain said of the BNP wins: "It's a shameful stain on
Britain that we now have racists and fascists representing us."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victory ... Griffin yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

BROWN'S NAILED PLOTTERS;
Job is safe...for now 'You're on probation' POLL HELL LETS IN FASCISTS BUT PM
WINS A REPRIEVE

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1064 words


GORDON Brown was last night given a stay of execution by Labour MPs after "the
speech of his life" headed off a backbench rebellion.

The PM survived the crunch Commons showdown by OWNING UP to his faults and
ADMITTING he is not perfect.

His escape from the rebels' noose came hot on the heels of Labour's dismal
performance in the Euro elections which had allowed the far-right BNP to get
their first ever seats in the European Parliament.

Party leader Nick Griffin, 49, was elected in the North West, while Andrew
Brons, 61, won in Yorkshire and Humber. Both are traditional Labour heartlands.

But despite the election failure Mr Brown's MPs decided to put him "on
probation".

Mr Brown told them: "I have my strengths and I have my weaknesses. There are
some things I do well and some things I do not do so well. I've learned that you
need to keep learning all the time."

During the meeting, in front of all Labour MPs and Peers, Mr Brown faced his
critics head on. He listened and spoke for 90 minutes as they lined up to attack
him.

More than 20 were called to speak, the majority in support of the Prime Minister
staying on. Backers included ex-Health Secretary Frank Dobson and former Labour
leader Neil Kinnock. Both made powerful speeches to rousing applause.

About six called either for the PM to stand down, for a leadership contest or
for the chance to make their views know in a private ballot.

There was also a bruising encounter for the PM as three former ministers lined
up to call for him to go.

They were former Home Secretary Charles Clarke, former Transport Minister Tom
Harris and former home office minister Fiona McTaggart.

An appeal for a secret ballot of all 350 Labour MPs was kicked into the long
grass.

But Mr Clarke told the Premier to his face: "There have been a series of bad
judgments and they are your responsibility. You should have the courage to call
an election or if not, you should go now."

But supporters said the PM made the "speech of his life" as he owned up to his
faults.

One MP said: "He was very humble and self-critical. I've never heard him adopt
this tone before. This was a completely different Gordon Brown from the one we
see in public.

"He seemed to be accepting he had fallen well short of our expectations and that
he was willing to do all he could to raise his game.

"The tone was, 'Well, I'm doing my best. I know that's not good enough. But
please give me another chance. There are some things I do really well and I'll
make more effort to improve the side of my game where I am not so good'."

Critics last night accepted the crisis is over for the time being - but
predicted Mr Brown is not out of the woods yet. For-meenergy minister Malcolm
Wicks put him on notice that he must solve the party's problems or face the chop
in the autumn.

And one former Cabinet minister said: "It was predictably supportive on the
surface.

"But the PM won't change and we'll be back here in a few weeks or months.

"The PM is the problem. It's not policy, it's him."

Crunch

Schools secretary Ed Balls - the PM's closest ally - told Sky News: "We are all
on probation. If Gordon Brown cannot show the leadership then we will lose the
election and our probation will be over."

The crunch meeting came after a week from hell for Labour and the PM.

The party was TWICE given a hammering at the polls - third in county council and
European Parliament elections.

Eight government ministers sensationally walked out, and three others have
either been sacked or taken different roles.

And the PM almost fell when pensions secretary James Purnell resigned last
Thursday night.

His troubles continued yesterday when Environment minister Jane Kennedy walked
out of government in protest at the PM's rule shortly before the meeting with
MPs.

She accused Downing Street of acting like the hard-left Militant Tendency by
secretly briefing against Labour MPs. She said she resigned after Mr Brown
personally demanded a loyalty oath from her.

The Liverpool Wavertree MP said: "I was unable to do that."

But Cabinet colleagues - corralled by Peter Mandelson - had already rallied
round the PM over the weekend.

Former Home Secretary David Blunkett gave rebel leaders 24 hours to publish 100
signatures on a no-confidence motion or shut up.

Defence minister Quentin Davies said: "We want to keep the captain on the
bridge."

But to ensure support the PM had made concessions. About 150 MPs opposed to the
part-privatisation of the Royal Mail pledged continued loyalty to the PM if he
killed off the proposal. Mr Brown hatched a compro-miswhich kicks the Bill into
the long grass, vowing to press ahead with the legislation but with new economic
conditions unlikely to be met until after the next election.

Rebel leaders were last night gathering to consider their next move.

They say they amassed 50 signatures and had another 70 MPs who wanted to act
against the PM but lacked the courage.

They decided to lie low after Cabinet figures like David Miliband and Alan
Johnson refused to quit in sympathy with James Purnell.

But opposition against the PM remained.

Last night former Cabinet minister Stephen Byers said: "We need a leader who is
decisive, not timid. Who can inspire and take our country through these
difficult times. We need a leader who can win for Labour at the next general
election and not take us to a humiliating defeat. Gordon Brown is not that
leader."

g.pascoewatson@thesun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Eight Watch latest video reports
on Brown crisis at thesun.co.uk/news

Goners

THE 11 ministers who have jumped ship.

TUESDAY JUNE 2nd

Children's Minister Beverley Hughes

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith

Cabinet Office's Tom Watson

WED JUNE 3rd

Communities chief Hazel Blears

THUR JUNE 4th

Pensions boss James Purnell

Defence Secretary John Hutton

Welsh Secretary Paul Murphy

FRIDAY JUNE 5th

Transport chief Geoff Hoon

Employment's Tony McNulty

Euro Minister Caroline Flint

MON JUNE 8th

Environment's Jane Kennedy

UK's share of the vote 25 13 13 11 222100 Party Total MEPs % of vote
Conservative UKIP Labour Lib Dem Green BNP SNP Plaid Cymru SSP Other 27.7% 16.5%
15.7% 13.7% 8.6% 6.2% 2.1% 0.8% 0.1% 8.4% 26.7% Conservatives 16.5% UKIP 15.7%
labour 13.7% Lib Dem 8.6% Green Party 6.2% BNP 0.8% Plaid Cymru 0.1% SSP 8.4%
Other 35.87% Conservatives 24.87% Socialists 11.41% Liberal 9.78% Unaligned 6.8%
Green 4.62% Left 3.8% EU Nats 2.85% Ind Dem EU share of parties Total UK MEP
seats LABOUR'S EURO MELTDOWN

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fighting back ... the PM clenches his fist after the meeting with
Labour MPs last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 9, 2009 Tuesday 10:03 AM GMT

What is the point of UKIP?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 760 words


A part of me was a bit disappointed by UKIP's stunning result last week, as I
had been promised a free party mug by Garrincha if they got fewer than four
seats. As it is I have to admit that in my confident prediction that the party
would fall on its backside I was utterly wrong, as usual. Still, I think there's
a fair amount of truth in what Laban says:

UKIP have been given an easy ride in the media, as the safety-valve option
approved by our rulers. Their large number of MEPs last time out have been
pretty invisible, save Mr Farage's savaging of GB a few months back, and I had
been wondering if their voters last time round would split between the BNP on
one side and Cameron's revived Tories on the other. But the expenses scandal cut
down on the number of defectors to the Tories, and the unprecedented anti-BNP
campaign, while not sufficient to prevent them winning seats, coupled with the
undoubted damage which will have been done when their entire membership's names,
addresses and contact details were put on the web, kept the defector rate low.

You'd almost think there'd been a tacit agreement to cut UKIP some slack. They
have plenty of unreconstructed old-style Tory characters with decidedly un-PC
views on the Brits and immigration (not to mention cleaning behind the fridge),
there have been cases of financial impropriety and expenses fraud. Yet no one in
the big three parties or the media has turned their guns on them. Only Caroline
Lucas of the pro-immigration Green Party switched on the abuse on 28th May's
Question Time, with thinly-veiled insinuations of racism directed at Farage.

There can be no doubt that if the BNP didn't exist, all the fire now directed at
them woul be incoming on UKIP. The pro-immigration Left hate anti-immigration
Tories just as much as they hate the BNP. But for the duration, the lefties have
buried the hatreds and donned the "butchers apron" with everyone else. The
Labour, Tory and BNP leaflets through my door all featured the Union Flag. We've
seen the bizarre sight of far-left bloggers linking to the Tories - who they'd
ususally be accusing of being racists - or citing Churchill as the sort of
decent chap who'd never vote BNP rather than his usual depiction as a racist who
told the troops to shoot miners.

So what now? Do UKIP remain an easily ignored once-every-five-years protest for
the British masses, or do they want to take the war to the opposition? As I've
said umpteen times before, there will be a real demand for a genuine
conservative opposition if the Tories turn out to be Blue Labour, and UKIP are
the best option. If they expanded their vision they could become a major force,
as long as they attracted the right combination of social conservatives,
patriotic socialists and libertarians.

Their major problem, of course, is the first-past-the-post system, and the
resulting unwillingness of small-c conservative voters to let in a Lib Dem or
Labour federast. The solution, as far as I see it, is to stop fighting every
seat and to concentrate on those where there isn't a genuine conservative
standing. Here's my suggestion: before the next election Nigel Farage should
write an open letter to every Tory and Labour PPC across the land, asking them
the following questions:

Would you support Britain leaving the EU and rejoining EFTA?

Do you support a five-year moratorium on unskilled, non-essential immigration
and the removal of any people with no right to be here?

Do you support the reintroduction of the grammar school system Britain had
between 1944-1967, and which was abolished by Tony Crosland?

Do you support radical changes in the welfare system so that it does not
incentivise family break-up nor encourage dependency?

Do you agree in principle to raising the income tax threshold to £10,000 or even
£15,000 a year, the abolition of inheritance tax and the replacement of the
regressive council tax with either a local sales or income tax?

Do you favour devolving power to democratically-elected county council
assemblies, mayors and county leaders, to give them more power over police,
prisons, welfare and even whether we can smoke in pubs or tear foxes to bits.

Finally, do you support the repeal of the unconstitutional and authoritarian
laws passed by Labour and its Conservative predecessor, including so-called
anti-terror laws, the Asbo, the attacks on the rights of defendants in legal
cases and recent laws against free ("hate") speech.

Answer yes to five or more and you have our support at the next election. Answer
no and Nigel's barmy army is coming after you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

MPs and MEPs can be full of conviction

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 290 words


Nick Griffin's suspended prison sentence for inciting racial hatred would
prevent him from standing as a councillor, but not as a Westminster or MEP,
under electoral laws.

The Electoral Commission admitted that the only bar to standing in a UK
parliamentary seat would be if someone were currently serving a sentence of 12
months or longer. Similarly, people are allowed to stand in European seats under
UK electoral law whatever crimes they have committed, provided they have not
served a 12-month prison sentence. The bar is, however, set substantially higher
at local elections. Anyone who has had a prison sentence of three months or
more, for however trivial a crime, in the previous five years is banned from
standing as a councillor.

Mr Griffin, the leader of the BNP, was found guilty , in April 1998 of
distributing material likely to incite racial hatred and handed a nine-month
jail sentence, suspended for two years.

In 1984, Andrew Brons, the winner of the party's other European seat, was found
guilty of behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace after his arrest in
Leeds while selling papers. He was fined £50 after being heard shouting "death
to Jews" and "white power". Members of other parties, including UKIP, have also
gone on to represent voters after being convicted.

Ashley Mote, 73, who represented South East England as an independent, was found
guilty of falsely claiming benefits of more than £65,000 and given a nine-month
jail term in 2007. The former UKIP representantive has since been given
permission to appeal against his conviction. He was elected for UKIP in 2004 but
was thrown out by the party when it learnt of his prosecution. He stayed on as
an independent MEP but did not seek re-election this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

'My dad fought in the war to crush such as these'

BYLINE: Valentine Low

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 395 words


In what was the heart of the Socialist Republic of South Yorkshire, one in six
people voted for the British National Party in the European elections.

"I'm not racist in any way," one of those voters, Kieron Hunt, said, closing the
shoe stall that he runs in Barnsley town centre. "But there are too many
foreigners. They are not good for the local economy. Even if they are working
they are not spending; they are sending the money home. A lot of people are fed
up: they think they get treated better than others - they get houses and phones
and cars. Whether they do or not I don't know, but that seems to be the general
opinion."

Mr Hunt, 51, admits that the BNP "are extreme. A couple of their policies are
racist, but a lot of what they are saying is common sense: British jobs for
British workers.

"We used to have the pits and the steelworks, now we are left with warehouses
and supermarkets and that carry-on. It's all basic wages; there are no well-paid
jobs."

He is not surprised that the BNP has support: "Barnsley has always been an
old-fashioned Yorkshire town. People have never had foreigners living next to
them. It is probably a backlash."

The two brash lads walking down the precinct in their T-shirts had voted BNP and
didn't care who knew it. "About 40 of us went and voted BNP," said Shane
Redford, 19, a bricklayer. "All our mates wanted to vote. Get 'em out." Who?
"Foreigners. They're dangerous. They're too horrible."

"You can't get a job because of all the Polish," said his mate Jamie Oddie, who
was recently made redundant from his warehouse job "It's cheap labour. Give
Britain back to the British."

As many people are appalled by the drift to the far Right. "I am disgusted with
it," said one middle-aged shopper. She is old-fashioned Barnsley: she voted for
Arthur Scargill. "They had a woman on TV saying she voted BNP because her
grandson couldn't get a job. But that is not true. There are jobs out there but
they are jobs people born and bred here won't look at. Most hospitals would shut
down if there were no foreign workers.

"We had 65 years after D-Day - my dad fought in the war to crush such as these.
Yet the same weekend they are voted in. It's ironic, isn't it?" Of the first
half-dozen people to whom The Times spoke, there was one BNP voter, one for Mr
Scargill, one Lib Dem, one for UKIP, one Green and one non-voter. None voted
Labour.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

The MEPs who'd like to be jobless - after a drink or two

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 545 words


To UKIP's celebratory press conference, where almost everyone looks just this
side of bonkers. It's held in the smallest room for rent in Westminster -
curtains closed to give it that murky underwater feel - and is crammed with men
of a certain age wearing giant purple UKIP rosettes. It's chaotic and crowded,
full of TV cameras, wires, photographers, loud voices.

Loudest of all is Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, chortling, booming, dominating
all with an XXL personality. "In 2004 we came third in the Euro elections and
they said it was a fluke," he crowed, Euro-tan glowing. "I'm very pleased to sit
here and say that UKIP has come second! Of course this time we'll be told it was
a fluke again. Although Gary Player, the famous golfer, said, 'It's funny, the
more I practise, the luckier I get!' " It's hard to take UKIP seriously when you
are this close to them. I think that, as a party, they should bulk-buy breath
mints. As Hazel Blears (RIP) may have said: "UKIP if you want to ..." But as
Nige, as I already think of him, points out, the truth is that more people are
wanting to.

Nige tells us why it all went wrong in 2004 when Robert Kilroy-Silk, the deeply
orange celebrity politician, was in the party. "Let's be frank! We completely
blew it in 2004! We blew it because we went into a period of total civil war!"
This time, though, it's different. "I don't see those sorts of splits coming.

I don't see anybody with an ego quite as big as that," he said, snorting. "It
wouldn't be possible!" The room giggled as Nige said that only UKIP could take
on the BNP.

The place was full of unlikely types. Take Nikki Sinclaire, a very tall
(reportedly 6ft 4in) lesbian who has just become a UKIP MEP. Well, I say to her,
you're on the gravy train now. "Yes, but I want to get off. I want to pull the
cord. I've already started to campaign for my own redundancy!" Then I meet Lord
Dartmouth, hereditary peer and new MEP.

Dartmouth, I ask, like the place? "Like the author!" cries the UKIP peer Lord
Pearson of Rannoch.

The author? "Barbara Cartland!" cries Lord Pearson.

"She's was my grandmother," says Lord Dartmouth.

Then there's David CampbellBannerman, MEP and distant relation of the former
Liberal PM Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman (is he the least famous of all PMs?).
The family still has Sir Henry's desk which, David reveals, has a drinks cabinet
in it. Ah, drink! This has a certain resonance with UKIP for Nige admits to
liking a drink or two. I catch him afterwards, immediately after his interview
with Lauren Booth, Cherie Blair's half-sister, who now works for the
Iranian-owned Press TV. (Sometimes it really is very, very hard to keep up in
Westminster.) Nige is smoking a thin cigar that looks dangerously like a
cigarillo.

"Smoking!" I cry. Nige says that in Brussels he flouts the smoking law. "In
Europe, laws are merely advisory. You can't tell the Greeks in the EU Parliament
not to smoke! It just isn't going to work."

So will he be celebrating with a drink or two? I say that I heard that two UKIP
MEPs had to be dragged out of the pub for the press conference (it was at 11am).

"Just the one," corrected a minder.

"He was only halfway there."

Nige puffed away. "I've got a couple of things to do first. But we will go for a
couple. Definitely! And WHY NOT?"

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Right time for a party: Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, in front of a
portrait of the House of Lords yesterday
TOBY MELVILLE / REUTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Election lessons: where do we go from here?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1659 words


BNP and democracy Sir, The greatest danger of the BNP's ascent to frontline
European politics (reports, June 8) is not what it represents but, rather, what
it fails to represent in the minds of those who matter among the established
Westminster parties. Amid all the refined indignation and agitated condemnation
of the "Nazis" in our midst, one question will remain conspicuous solely by its
absence: why are white, working-class men and women in traditionally Labour
strongholds so disenchanted, disillusioned and downright disappointed by the
Westminster system that they would even consider voting BNP in the first
instance? Are all those who voted BNP "fascists"? Hardly. But such is the
despair throughout the country that many ordinary voters will support anything
that speaks their language on a local level. The BNP's success is a timely
reminder of the dangerous power of democracy. The Westminster elites cannot have
such a democracy on "their" terms. If people are moved to look beyond the
ideological sterility of the three-party system then their motives must be
understood and addressed accordingly.

This is a political era characterised above all by ideological castration on the
part of the established parties and the ruthless pursuit of mediocrity in the
interests of 5 per cent of floating voters in Middle England. There is no one,
for example, on the Labour front bench who would be conspicuously or
ideologically out of place on the Tory front bench, and vice versa.

Paradoxically, this is why modern politics is so bitter - in the absence of
ideology everything becomes personal; if you cannot attack ideas (since there
are not any) you can at least attack personalities.

Blanket condemation of the BNP and the undoubtedly noxious voodoo it represents
only takes us so far. But until the established parties realise that there is a
very angry world beyond the sterile confines of Westminster, we can only expect
the problem to become worse and more urgent.

With all the logic of a monkey sawing through the branch on which it sits, the
greatest danger to British democracy comes not from the reflex-action resentment
represented by the BNP, but, rather, from the long-term failure of the
Westminster system to connect with its own electorate.

phillip mcgough Nottingham

PR is the danger Sir, I am sure that the depressing news that the BNP has gained
two seats in the European Parliament for the North of England says nothing about
the great majority of people there. But it illustrates the danger of a
proportional representation voting system, not only in creating political
instability but in making it possible for extremists to gain power. The main
parties and their continental counterparts should exert influence in the
European Parliament to reform its electoral process in favour of a
first-past-the-post system across Europe, following the British model. miland
joshi Selly Oak, Birmingham

BBC coverage Sir, The four largest parties at the 2004 European elections
(Conservative, Labour, UKIP and the Liberal Democrats) have all suffered a
reduction in the number of votes cast for them. The only parties standing at
both elections that have seen an increase have been the BNP and the Green Party.

A key reason for the success of these two parties has been the "oxygen of
publicity" that they were intentionally given by the BBC. The BBC's coverage of
elections is clearly crucial to their outcome. The use of election results from
five years ago by the BBC Trust to decide that UKIP should get equivalent
coverage to the traditional parties was flawed as, for instance, UKIP only
achieved 2 per cent of the vote in the subsequent general election. The decision
to promote the BNP beyond the trust's guidelines has been a key factor in the
election of two BNP MEPs.

It is essential that in future, and not least for the next general election, the
level of coverage the BBC gives to existing and new parties is properly
discussed. Its dependence on the results of past elections stultifies the growth
of democracy and protects the oligarchical nature of our political
establishment.

It is for Parliament to decide who may stand for election and under what
conditions. It is for the BBC to give all candidates and parties equal coverage
dependent on their number and the coverage of the country. sir paul judge London
SW1

Brown and the rebels Sir, It was in detective fiction, I believe, that
significance was first pointed to "the dog that did not bark". The "dog" on this
occasion is Tony Blair who, in contrast to other Labour grandees such as Lords
Kinnock and Mandelson, has not offered a single word of support to Gordon Brown.
Mr Blair's silence speaks volumes, showing that what we are witnessing is little
more than political and personal opportunism by a group of disaffected Blairites
("We fight on", June 6). That any politician should attempt to destabilise the
Government in pursuit of party factionalism and self-interest at a time of
economic crisis is almost beyond belief.

It is perhaps true that the UK needs a government with a fresh mandate, but it
will have this within the next year. If Mr Brown were toppled now, and the
country subjected to a bruising fight for the Labour leadership followed by the
uncertainty of a caretaker government, addressing the grave economic and
political problems that the country faces would be unnecessarily and dangerously
delayed. The pound would probably sink through the floor.

This is not the time for disgruntled (and in some cases personally discredited)
politicians to put their political career and ambition above the national
interest. That Caroline Flint should resign 12 hours after protesting support
for the Prime Minister, simply because she was not offered a Cabinet post,
illustrates the self-serving political calculation motivating many of these
so-called rebels.

profesor john greenwood Market Harborough, Leics

Unelected PMs Sir, There seems to be a furore about Gordon Brown not having been
elected Prime Minister. Thirteen of the prime ministers since 1900 started in
that position: Balfour, Asquith, Lloyd George, Bonar Law, Baldwin, Chamberlain,
Churchill, Eden, Macmillan, Home, Callaghan, Major and now Brown.

Some went on to win election, some failed and Chamberlain never stood. Let us
not pretend it is an unusual position; it is quite the norm in British politics.

derek senior Darlington, Co Durham

Election solution Sir, Nicholas Dean, QC, writes (letter, June 8) that at a time
of economic uncertainty and constitutional near-crisis, resigning ministers have
demonstrated contempt and disloyalty to the Prime Minister, to the offices they
held and to the people they represent. The solution is for the person who seems
to hold contempt for the people of this country, Gordon Brown, to call a general
election and let the people speak.

robert sandall London SW12

Change the culture Sir, Political problems will not be solved by meaningless
Cabinet changes, by changing the Prime Minister or by the periodic switch from
Labour to Conservative government. What is needed is to replace a culture of
short-termism, obfuscation and denial with a culture of vision, clarity and
integrity. ken moth Northwich, Cheshire

Trade but no EU laws Sir, In the aftermath of the European elections, it is
important to bear in mind why it is that the United Kingdom Independence Party
has done well and, although successful, the Conservative Party has faced this
challenge.

The deputy leader of UKIP, Mike Nattrass, MEP, stood against me in the general
election in 2005 when UKIP was on virtual parity with its current electoral
success. He lost his deposit. There is a lesson here which is that the
Conservative Party is at last united over the Lisbon treaty and a call for a
referendum has to go farther - which is to have a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty whatever the outcome of the Irish vote, and whether or not Lisbon has
been ratified by all member states.

My motion to this effect was strongly supported by at least 50 Conservative MPs
last year.

Furthermore, it is imperative that we endorse my "supremacy of Parliament"
amendment, also supported by at least 50 Conservative MPs, that would allow
passage of Westminster legislation to override European legislation, and require
the judiciary to observe and obey that latest law.

In Visions of Europe (1993) I predicted that the direction of the European
ideologues and treaty-makers would lead to the rise of the far Right on the back
of economic failure, unemployment, immigration and undemocratic centralisation.
We now see the proof in the first national success of the BNP.

We need an association of nation states. We need, as David Cameron has said,
"trade and co-operation" with the European Union; we do not want or need
European government.

And we need British laws for British judges, which is what I said before UKIP
borrowed this from what I stated to Gordon Brown in the House of Commons on
November 14, 2007. With these policies the Conservative Party is guaranteed
total victory and No 10. bill cash, mp House of Commons, London SW1

Vote for referendum?

Sir, Forty of the sixty-nine MEPs, and more than 50 per cent of the vote, were
for parties that call for either a referendum on or withdrawal from the EU. Does
this, in itself, represent a mandate to require the Government to provide us
with a referendum? julian lyon Guildford, Surrey

Speaking out Sir, Yesterday's leading article ("Speaking for the nation", June
8) is behind the times in describing the election of a new Speaker as a
secretive process.

Leading contenders for the position of Speaker of the House of Commons will
speak at a Hansard Society Speaker hustings in Parliament on June 15, which will
be televised by BBC Parliament. The contenders will make their case and answer
questions both from MPs and from members of the public who are submitting their
questions via the Hansard Society website.

fiona booth Chief Executive, Hansard Society

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Is Nigel the new father figure of politics?

BYLINE: Robert Crampton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 768 words


The most extraordinary thing I have learnt in the past few days is that Nigel
Farage, the UKIP leader, is only 45 years old. He was born in April 1964. So,
not only is he only 45, he's only just only 45. Forty-five. It's not a misprint.
It's not meant to be 65 or 55, it's 45. Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, is 45
years old.

Caroline Lucas, the leader of the Greens, is three years older than Farage. Nick
Griffin, the leader of the BNP, is five years older than Farage. David Cameron
and Nick Clegg, both of whom could still just about pass as schoolboys, albeit
maybe doing retakes, are only two or three years younger than Farage. And yet he
looks old enough to be their dad or, at the very least, their usually cheerful
and yet occasionally psychotic no-nonsense geography teacher.

On a distressing personal note, Nigel Farage is a mere four months older than
me. We were in the same school year, albeit not at the same school. We both sat
our O levels in 1980. We must share many cultural reference points. Which leads
me to wonder: did the young Farage fancy Debbie Harry? Did he go to school
discos and pretend he was in Saturday Night Fever? Was he allowed to stay up to
watch The Professionals but only if he'd got in his jim-jams first? And most
importantly, do I really look as old as him?

High fashion

You know when you see footage from the Fifties or Sixties and the men have their
trousers yanked up to their nipples and look about 60? And then when you work it
out, they're actually 38? Like Harold Wilson? And you know how the 1966 World
Cup-winning team, with the possible exception of Alan Ball, looked like
middle-aged men even when they were in their physical prime? How Nobby Stiles,
who looked like a pensioner, was actually 24, that's 24, when he did his funny
little dance on the pitch at Wembley? I have always put this phenomenon down to
a majority of British people in those decades still being the victims of
generations of hard labour, poor housing and malnutrition. But Farage (like
Griffin, Cameron, Clegg and Lucas) went to private school - wonderful how the
classless society is coming on, isn't it? - so presumably his family were
reasonably well-off.

Anyway, credit to the man, he's done a good job at UKIP, even if the strain is
obviously taking its toll on his face. Everyone's getting anxious about the BNP,
but imagine how well the nasties might have done if UKIP weren't there as a
respectable repository for the grumpy old man vote.

Defeated by Napoleon

I spent the weekend in my home town of Hull, where, not entirely surprisingly to
locals, UKIP beat Labour into second place; and this in the city represented by
John Prescott and Alan Johnson, and one where commerce is rather more dependent
than most on good relations with the Continent.

On the Saturday night my dad, my nephew and I went for a drink at Napoleon's, a
casino my nephew joined because they serve cheap beer (£1.50 a pint Sunday to
Thursday) and because he likes the odd flutter, but mostly because it's
somewhere to meet his mates in the city centre with acceptably long odds on
getting his head kicked in.

Poignantly, for me and especially for my dad, the building housing Napoleon's
used to be called Bevin House. And as I'm sure you know, Bevin House was the
Hull headquarters of the Transport & General Workers Union. We used to go to
meetings there, me dozens, my dad hundreds if not thousands, back in the early
Eighties at the fag end of the industrial age.

A freezing room, clanking plumbing, carpet tiles, layers of fag smoke, flat
beer, small chunky men, some of whom had had their trousers pulled up too high
since the Great Depression, raising points of information and passing
resolutions. And people say politics is boring.

And now it's all fancy wallpaper and big-screen tellies and place your bets and
no drinks in the gaming area. And the T& G, which pretty much used to run the
city, no longer even exists.

Woeful winnings

I don't know about politics being dull: for me gambling is one of the most
tedious pastimes around. No one ever looks as if they're enjoying themselves in
a casino. We watched a woman win £97 on a slot machine. Her grimace of utter
misery didn't even flicker.

That's nothing, said my nephew. One night he saw a woman win £4,000, the maximum
payout, on the same machine. She paused a second, a few people applauded, and
then she resumed shovelling chips into the slot.

Another night he watched a young man come in, stride over to the roulette table,
put £250 on red, lose, and walk out again, three minutes start to finish. Not my
idea of fun. Or maybe I'm just getting old.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Home truths from abroad: how the polls flatter and frustrate

BYLINE: Francis Elliott; Jill Sherman; Sam Coates; Suzy Jagger; Fran Yeoman;
David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2606 words


What the elections tell us about the state of the parties and the mood of the
country ...

The rejection is shock- ingly emphatic: two out of every five who cast their
vote in the European elections turned away from the three main Westminster
parties. Thousands of results - both in that poll and the local elections -
build a picture of disgusted disaffection over MPs' expenses and fear over the
effects of globalisation both on national identity and the economy.

Labour, as the ruling party, was always likely to be punished in the first set
of polls to be held during the recession. When it and the rest of the political
elite were exposed as benefiting from a debased expenses culture, the conditions
were set for a seismic shift in voting patterns. The rejection of the three main
parties in the European elections rose from 34 per cent in 2004 to around 40 per
cent last week. With turnout remaining the same, it is clear that millions made
the effort to register their dissatisfaction.

Psephologists caution against reading too much into the "none of the above"
elections, pointing out that in 2005 voters returned to the main parties at the
general election. Nevertheless, the scale of the rejection will lead to a
fundamental rethink among political strategists.

Labour

Sifting through the rubble of Labour's disastrous collapse there is little - if
anything - for the party to salvage. Even party officials, depressing
expectations all last week, were shocked at Labour's showing in both the local
and European elections.

In the latter they came third behind a minority party - the UK Independence
Party - and were humiliated in Wales by the Tories and in Scotland by the
Scottish National Party.

The party polled only 15.7 per cent, its worst result for 90 years, and lost six
of its nineteen seats. Its share of the vote plummeted across Britain, including
in previous strongholds such as the North East. Its vote went into freefall in
the South West, with the party coming sixth in Cornwall - behind even the
Cornish nationalists.

Only in parts of London did Labour's vote hold up, a consolation countered by
its heavy losses throughout the rest of the South East.

In the county council elections it lost 300 of its 490 seats. More worryingly,
in several councils in the South only one or two Labour councillors remain. The
wipeout in the South in both sets of elections could have dire consequences at a
general election when the party finds that it has no activist base to fight
vulnerable seats in places such as Kent, where it lost 18 council seats.

The most high-profile losses of the local elections were in the North and the
north Midlands, where Labour lost its four remaining county councils:
Derbyshire, Lancashire, Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire In the European
elections it was the slump in Labour's vote in the North West and Yorkshire and
the Humber that let the BNP gain two seats.

Conservatives

Contrary to the party's claims, David Cameron achieved only one of two key
objectives he privately set the Conservatives a little over two months ago. Back
in mid-March Stephen Gilbert, the party's campaign guru, told frontbenchers that
the party was aiming to increase its share of the vote in the European
elections. It did - but only just. With almost all votes counted the party was
on 27.7 per cent of the vote, up from 26.7 per cent in 2004.

Mr Cameron hailed his party's topping the poll in Wales for the first time,
ignoring that it had achieved this feat with only 21.2 per cent of the vote, a
slight increase on its previous total. In common with many of its successes, the
party was flattered by the scale of Labour's meltdown.

The Conservatives failed to win back ground lost to UKIP in the last European
elections despite a widespread belief that the 2004 poll had been UKIP's
high-water mark.

They did take all its target councils proving it has rebuilt a viable
infrastructure in all but the reddest of Labour heartlands. Strategists claim
that there is credible evidence of Labour voters switching to Tory - something
that, if correct, will panic Labour MPs in notionally safe seats.

Most significant of all is their advance in the South West. Victories in
Somerset and Devon pose an ominous threat to the Liberal Democrats at the next
election.

In seeking to balance its Eurosceptic credentials to tackle the UKIP threat with
the fear of alienating new voters, the party chose to err towards the latter
imperative. Mr Cameron said yesterday: "We are a one-nation party. Whether you
are black or white or rich or poor, from the North or the South, straight or
gay, you are part of our country and we are proud of you."

Lib Dems

Whatever happened to the "renegade" party? Nick Clegg promised supporters that
he would position the Liberal Democrats as an insurgent force that had the power
to drain support from both Labour and the Tories but there were precious few
signs of this in last week''s elections, with the Lib Dems performing
underwhelmingly, but not disastrously, in both the local and European elections.
Their results hint at worrying weaknesses in key general election battle
grounds.

The Lib Dems came second to the Conservatives in the country council elections
but dropped to a disappointing fourth in the European elections, behind the
Tories, UKIP and Labour. This marks the same position they had in the 2004
European elections.

The result is a blow to Mr Clegg's party, which is the most pro-European in
Britain, and corresponds to a general collapse of the liberal vote across
Europe.

The biggest worry for the Liberal Democrats will be losses in the South West
since many Liberal Democrat MPs have only small majorities over the
Conservatives.

In Wales the Conservatives came first and the Liberal Democrats, who formed a
three-party coalition government with Labour in 2000, came fifth. In Scotland,
the Lib Dems trailed behind the SNP, Labour and the Conservatives on 11.5 per
cent. There was nowhere that they managed to come even second. Despite coming
fourth, they were only narrowly behind Labour and they are likely to use the
European result to revive their call for proportional representation.

Greens

On other nights, in other political climates, this would have been deemed a
success. More than 270,000 new voters choose to go Green compared with 2004,
bringing their total share of the national vote 8.6 per cent, or 1.2 million
votes - higher than the BNP, which won the same number of seats.

Some opinion polls hinted at an unprecedented triumph for the Greens but the
reality fell well short of the 2.2 million votes they secured in 1989 and they
could be forgiven for thinking that these elections were a golden opportunity
they missed.

The impending by-election in Norwich North offers the Greens a chance to prove
they can turn a protest vote into a Westminster contest.

The Greens topped the European poll within Norwich, a part of the East of
England region and a heartland for the party where they are the official
opposition on the city council. Rupert Read, who narrowly missed out on a
Brussels seat, has not ruled out switching his sights to Westminster and with
local Labour activists acrimoniously divided over the treatment of Ian Gibson,
the Greens are "confident of doing very well".

UKIP

The Greens are not the only fringe party eyeing Norwich. UKIP has already opened
a campaign office in the city as it seeks to capitalise on its best ever poll
result.

The party increased its number of seats in the European Parliament to 13, one
more than in 2004, and secured the second-largest share of the European
elections vote with 16.57 per cent, second only to the Conservatives. The result
shows that UKIP's strength lies in the South West and South East. But it wasn't
all good news: the party lost a seat in the East Midlands (but claims to have
made progress in the West Midlands).

In the local elections, UKIP gained seven new county council seats and has
become the main opposition in Newcastle-under-Lyme, in Staffordshire. It also
has a handful of county council seats in the East of England, in Great Yarmouth
and Lowestoft South.

Nigel Farage, the party's leader, said yesterday that the party must start
fundraising immediately to replenish its coffers, having spent all its money
fighting the European elections (it is believed to have spent £2 million on the
campaign).

UKIP is considering whether to target seats where there is a slim Tory margin or
where the sitting MP has been embroiled in a row over his expenses. David
Campbell Bannerman, the party's deputy leader, said: "The whole scandal of MPs'
expenses has clearly dislocated a lot of tribal loyalties. It has opened a gap -
there is an opportunity for us. We saw on the campaign trail how a number of
Tory and Labour candidates were savaged - they were very angry."

Mr Farage claims that the party will be putting up 550 candidates for the
general election.

Minor

The English Democrats and the Christian Party alliance were the key winners in
the battle of the tiny parties in the European elections. Although none got a
seat, the English Democrats did best doubling their share of the vote from 0.7
per cent to 2 per cent and winning 279,801 votes. The party, which campaigns for
an English Parliament, secured its first directly elected mayor in Doncaster.
The Christian Party-Christian People's Alliance, running on a joint ticket,
upped their share of the vote after fielding candidates for the first time in
all 72 seats. The alliance received a total of 232,755 votes - up by 1.6 points
on 2004.

They outpolled Libertas, the antiLisbon treaty party led by Declan Ganley, the
Jury team backing independent candidatess, NO2EU and Socialist Labour.

Francis Elliott, Jill Sherman, Sam Coates, Suzy Jagger and Fran Yeoman

... and a continent where ruling parties are left sitting pretty

Centre Right

Pragmatic measures to fight the recession, and an appeal to nationalist
sentiment with plenty of rhetoric on immigrants, were the ingredients of the
success of centre-right parties.

Armed with a clear message and blessed with an opposition in disarray, the
mainstream Right appealed to voters with a sense of grievance at the financial
system. But its campaign - leavened with anti-immigrant slogans and calls to
reject Turkish membership of the EU - came with a heavy dose of traditionally
left-wing attitudes to job protection.

"Right-wing parties are talking about how to regulate markets and how to
intervene to save jobs, as well as reform social welfare systems," said Sara
Hagemann, policy analyst with the European Policy Centre in Brussels. "The
Centre Right has said this more forcefully and more visibly."

The big winners - the ruling parties in France, Germany and Poland - were among
the most reluctant to follow Gordon Brown's call for huge fiscal stimulus
payouts that would land taxpayers with years of high public deficits.

The centre-right European People's Party will have about 263 of the 736 seats,
despite the departure of David Cameron's Conservatives to form a new
anti-federalist group.

The tactic was exemplified by President Sarkozy, who marginalised the already
divided Socialists by inviting senior centre-left politicians into his
Government and pushing state intervention and protection for vulnerable French
industries - while refusing to countenance Turkish membership of the Union. His
UMP party got 27.9 per cent of the vote, thumping the Socialists who had just
16.5 per cent

In Germany, Angela Merkel's CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the CSU, won 37.9
per cent of the vote while their rival Social Democrats plunged to a record low
of 20.8 per cent.

In Italy, Silvio Berlusconi's party was on course for 35.2 per cent, comfortably
beating the opposition but falling far short of its own predictions. The Prime
Minister's party chose to blame bad publicity surrounding the nature of its
leader's relationship with an 18-year-old model for the result.

CentrLeft

"This is disappointing," said Franz Müntefering, the head of the German
socialist SPD party. "The result is significantly worse than we expected." It
was an understatement: the European Left was at a loss to explain its electoral
meltdown.

For the opposition in France, Germany, Italy and Poland, as for ruling parties
in Britain, Bulgaria and Portu-gal, it was a drubbing. Whether it was voters
deserting them for extremists or fringe parties or simply staying at home in the
lowest-ever turnout for a European election of just 43 per cent, or having their
clothes stolen by the Right promising to protect people's jobs, left-wing
parties across the continent were staring at the maths: the Party of European
Socialists was heading for 163 MEPs, a big disappointment after aiming for 200.

"It was a sad evening for social democracy in Europe. We are particularly
disappointed," said Martin Schulz, the German MEP who leads the group in the
Parliament.

Core voters, including students and less educated workers, appeared to have
stayed away from the polls, but that was not the only explanation.

In Spain, where José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's ruling Socialists were defeated
for the first time by Mariano Rajoy's Popular Party, the daily newspaper Mundo
summed up the European mood. "The traditional parties of the Left should ask
themselves why, in the midst of crisis, just when free market theories appear to
be most challenged, people continue to prefer liberal recipes," it said.

Far Right

When the new MEPs of the BNP head for Brussels they will find they have a wide
range of neo-fascist bedfellows. There are some familiar faces, such as the
French National Front's JeanMarie Le Pen, at 80 now the oldest MEP, but some new
ones too - such as the three MEPs for Jobbik, a nationalist Hungarian party with
its own uniformed paramilitary wing.

However, neo-fascist Europeans do not have a history of co-operation. In 2007 a
group of far-right MEPs formed the Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty bloc; it
broke up after 11 months when the Greater Romanian MEPs quit over remarks by
Alessandro Mussolini, the granddaughter of Il Duce, who said that all Romanians
were criminals.

Now that she has left there may be grounds for a rapprochement. But the Greater
Romania Party won just two seats, down from the five observer MEPs at the time
Romania joined the EU. The party also may have difficulty lifting a travel ban
on Gigi Becali, imposed as a condition of his bail on charges of kidnapping
three men who allegedly stole his sports car.

One party likely to spurn a group that includes the BNP is the Freedom Party of
the maverick Dutch politician Geert Wilders, who was banned from entering
Britain in February for his strident anti-Islamic views. It won four seats to
become the Netherlands' second-largest party, but has kept a distance from other
fringe parties.

Hungarian fascists, times2

Online

Video The winners and losers in the election

timesonline.co.uk/elections

1 Falls Road, Belfast Sinn Fein is Northern Ireland's favourite party

2 Brighton Greens defeat the big parties and aim for Commons

3 New Forest Labour plunged to 8.2 per cent in the South East

4 Wales Tories celebrate their first electoral victory for 90 years

5 Truro The Lib Dems lost votes but managed to cling on to seats

6 Edinburgh SNP beat Labour into second place in Scotland

7 Bucharest Gigi Becali, accused of kidnapping, is unable to take up his seat
unless bail restictions are lifted

8 Amsterdam The anti-Islamic Freedom party led by Geert Wilders storms to second
place

9 Lisbon Ruling Socialist Party in surprise defeat by Centre Right

10 Paris Rachida Dati, the former Justice Minister, heads the list of victorious
centre-right UMP party candidates

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

REBELS PLOTONE FINAL STRIKE

BYLINE: By James Chapman

LENGTH: 998 words


LABOUR rebels were last night plotting a final attempt to force Gordon Brown
out.

The renewed attack came as the party headed for unprecedented humiliation at the
polls.

It crashed to a historic low of around 20 per cent in the European elections and
was beaten by the resurgent UK Independence Party. With early results coming in,
the Tories were on course to win the day, with UKIP second, Labour third and the
LibDems a disappointing fourth.

It was a worse collapse for Labour than the Tories ever endured, even at their
lowest ebb.

Mr Brown, whose premiership was rescued last week when Lord Mandelson limited
the scale of a Cabinet revolt, now faces 'make or break Monday'. MPs said the
electionwipeout would be the trigger for a concerted attempt to force a
leadership contest.

At least one junior minister is said to be ready to resign in a bid to encourage
a backbench coup.

But Mr Brown's allies believe the threat of an immediate General Election after
a leadership change ñ which would cost many Labour MPs their seats ñ will save
him.

Ministers confirmed last night that an election will take place next May if the
Prime Minister hangs on. On another dramatic day in Labour's leadership crisis:

--Tony Blair's close friend Lord Falconer, a former Lord Chancellor, became the
most senior figure to join demands for the Premier to step down;

--A defiant Mr Brown repeated his insistence that he would not 'walk away' and
promised to fix the Commons expenses system and the economy;

--Leaked emails revealed Lord Mandelson once described the Prime Minister as
'insecure', 'self-conscious' and 'angry';

--Ex-Europe minister Caroline Flint, who quit last week, was reported to have
called Mr Brown a 'f****** b******';

--Hazel Blears, who also walked out, was said to be planning a devastating
assault on his policy failures;

--Fears grew that BNP leader Nick Griffin might become a Euro MP in the biggest
electoral breakthrough for the far-Right in Britain.

The Prime Minister, battered by the resignation of a string of ministers, faces
a

showdown with his MPs today in a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party.

Ringing in their ears will be Lord Falconer's words: 'We need unity above all.
Can we get unity under the current leadership? I don't think so. The only way it
can be achieved is a change of leader.'

Mr Brown's excuse for Labour's annihilation ñ that governments everywhere were
being punished for the economic downturn ñ was shattered when both the French
and German governing parties scored successes.

Labour recorded the worst local election results in its history last week ñ and
the

EU results were looking even worse. Its vote share was expected to be lower than
the miserable 22 per cent in the last Euro elections in 2004.

There were extraordinary indications that Labour had been beaten into sixth
place in Cornwall, behind the Conservatives, UKIP, LibDems, Greens and even the
Cornish Nationalists. The party was set to come third in its traditional
stronghold of Wales,.

The only glimmer of hope for Labour was that the Tories appeared to be
struggling to make significant improvement on the 26 per cent they scored last
time ñ a worrying sign for David Cameron with an election less than a year away.

UKIP were set to become the big winners as voters furious with the main parties
turned their backs on the political establishment.

Mr Brown, rallying Labour activists at hastily-arranged meeting in East London,
joked that although his wife Sarah was not present 'she hasn't resigned'. He
insisted that the public would not forgive the Government if it turned in on
itself at a time when it should be tackling the recession and cleaning up
Parliament.

'What would they think of us if ever we walked away from them at a time of need?
We are sticking with them,' Mr Brown said. 'We have a purpose, we have a
mission, we have a task ahead. We are going to get on with that task of building
a better Britain.'

Crucially for the Prime Minister, new Home Secretary Alan Johnson ñ tipped as Mr
Brown's successor ñ warned rebels against mounting a coup. I don't agree that
regicide gives you a united party ñ quite the opposite,' he said.

'I don't think it's the message that you ought to carry on being divided. I
think it's that you need to unite, and you need to make sure you concentrate on
the major issues facing the country.'

Lord Mandelson, who effectively became Deputy Prime Minister in last week's
emergency reshuffle after talking other ministers out of resigning, warned the
rebels they had no alternative candidate.

'It would require someone to stand against him, someone to raise the standard
and say 'I would do a better job' ñ and we don't have that person,' he said.

Cabinet Office minister Tessa Jowell, a close friend of Lord Falconer, protested
her loyalty, but still became the first member of the Cabinet to speculate
openly that Mr Brown could be prepared to step aside.

She said that, like Mr Blair, she believed he would go if he believed that he
had become an 'obstacle' to Labour winning the General Election.

Aides insisted that she was not suggesting Mr Brown should stand down. Miss
Jowell later said publicly that the next election would come next May, under the
Prime Minister's leadership.

But former Labour minister Nick Raynsford, who is not a Blairite, warned that if
there was no change of leader the next election would be ' disastrous,' with
Labour reduced to 'an ineffective and very small opposition party'.

He said: 'I am afraid that if we don't take the right decision now the mood of
unhappiness will continue. We will have a long lingering downward decline.'

One rebel leader said a concerted effort would be made today to gather names for
a letter demanding a leadership contest.

The MP said: 'The results will tip many over the top. If we are below 20 per
cent it will be pretty damaging for the PM.

'People will look at the percentage of the Labour vote in their constituency and
realise that they are staring at their own P45.'

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

A DISASTROUS DAY FOR THE LIB DEMS

LENGTH: 316 words


THE Liberal Democrats were last night headed for a disastrous set of results in
the European Parliament elections.

Early counts indicated that they would finish fourth ñ behind the Conservatives,
UKIP and Labour.

The party had been aiming to come in second place, with leader Nick Clegg,
pictured, spearheading a campaign calling for Britain not to become isolated
from the European Union.

But the LibDems appeared to be facing even worse results than in 2004, when they
came fourth and took 14.9 per cent of the vote. That gave them just 12 MEPs.

The predicted losses come despite the LibDems appearing to fare better than
other parties during the MPs' expenses scandal.

Beating Labour to earn second place would have been seen as a major coup.

Instead, the dismal results will come as a blow to the most pro-European of the
big three parties.

The Lib Dems have urged Britain to 'stand tall' and play its full part in the
European Union.

They have blamed Labour's ' arrogance' for ruining relations between Britain and
the other European countries.

Their manifesto added: 'The Conservatives and UKIP think that on its own Britain
can face the economic storm, climate change, international crime,
people-trafficking and terrorism.

Britain can and should lead in Europe, making our country more prosperous,
championing a brighter, safer future both at home and abroad.

'We are stronger together and poorer apart.'

The party has backed the Lisbon Treaty ñ the successor to the controversial
European constitution ñ but has proposed a referendum on Britain's continued EU
membership in a bid to highlight what it sees as the advantages of membership.

During the local elections, Mr Clegg hailed 'spectacular gains' in Bristol and
branded it the start of a 'complete transformation of city politics'.

But the Tories went on to take Devon and Somerset from the LibDems, leaving the
'third party' down by four seats.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

UKIP 'SECOND IN THE GREAT EURO RACE'

LENGTH: 398 words


THE UK Independence Party was heading for a big win in the European elections
last night as disgruntled voters deserted the political establishment.

The party ñ which believes Britain should withdraw from the European Union ñ was
expected to push Labour into third place after a huge surge in support.

But there were also concerns that the racist British National Party could pick
up its first European Parliament seat. Its leader, Nick Griffin, aimed to
capitalise on the backlash against the political mainstream by triumphing in the
North-West.

However, early indications were that the party had not gained the 8.5 per cent
of the vote it needed to gain its first MEP.

Voters turned away from Labour, Tories and Liberal Democrats at last Thursday's
poll in a combination of anger over an unpopular Government and the fallout from
the MPs' expenses scandal.

Tory sources said their share of the vote was 'holding up' but party leader
David Cameron will be disappointed not to have done better.

Sources said there was 'concern' in Downing Street as UKIP, which currently has
ten MEPs, gained support from Labour voters across the country. With Gordon
Brown braced for a humiliating drubbing, Labour chiefs feared that the party
could nosedive into a humiliating sixth place in Cornwall ñ behind even the
Cornish Nationalist Party.

A poll last week indicated Labour's share of the vote could have slumped as low
as 16 per cent, the worst performance by a government in modern history.

The party's 19 MEPs could be cut to fewer than ten, greatly increasing the
chances of a renewed revolt against the Prime Minister.

One senior backbencher said the pressure for a coup could 'become almost
unstoppable' if Labour went into electoral meltdown.

UKIP's leader Nigel Farage said yesterday he believes that his party is on the
brink of a major breakthrough.

'The Westminster bubble will convince itself that this is a protest vote but it
is not,' he added. 'The plain fact is that people agree with our message.'

UKIP was founded in 1993 and attracted some members from the Europhobic wing of
the Tory party.

It was overshadowed at the 1997 General Election by Sir James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party but in 1999, it won three seats in Brussels.

In 2004 it increased that to 12, including TV presenter Robert Kilroy Silk, who
became Britain's bestknown MEP before leaving the party because of a power
struggle.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

GREAT TO SEE CLARE HORSING AROUND AGAIN

LENGTH: 444 words


ALAN FRASER

CLARE BALDING is always at her very best -- and that can be as good as it gets
-- among horses and, to a lesser extent, among horse folk. 'Sea The Stars is the
name of a champion and that is the head of a champion,' Balding purred as the
camera zoomed in on the Derby winner. 'He is just taking it all in and looking
at the crowd saying,

"Is this for me? Is this for me?'' Yeah, yeah, because you, my son, have just
won the Derby. Incredible.' This was vintage Balding. In herworld, horses are
humans without the failings. Horses would never fiddle their expenses or vote
for the BNP or UKIP. Horses are the true heroes.

It was good to have Balding back on our screens after an operation for thyroid
cancer. 'It looks like I have had my throat slit,' she had joked when the story
broke. Thanks to a piece of jewellery on Friday and a choker an Saturday you
really could not see the join. By the Derby, any awkwardness had been dealt
with. 'It is lovely to be back amongst family, amongst friends and with all of
you at home,' the BBC presenter had said in her opening remarks to the Oaks
broadcast. Only the slightest hint of a wobble in her voice betrayed
understandable emotion. There followed a gentle pat on the arm of her faithful
sidekick, Willie Carson. 'Willie, it's lovely to be here with you,' she said.
'Nice to see you, Clare,' replied Carson. 'Everybody is glad to see you.' 'How
are you? Lovely to see you,' trainer Mick Channon later mumbled.

In that very British way, Balding's illness was dealt with without ever actually
being mentioned.

Which allowed the British public to get on with mocking Carson, whose continuing
presence on our screens can only be for reasons of unintended comic relief.
Cheeky-faced Jamie Spencer took it upon himself to become a spokesman for the
masses. 'Why do you keep shouting?' the jockey asked by way of interrupting
another of Carson's legendary non interviews. 'Keep it down a bit.' That just
provoked a trademark cackle from the Alan Ladd of televised racing. The start of
his weighing room piece had been vintage Carson. 'Here's Kevin Manning,' he
announced. 'You getting ready for the Derby?' he asked. 'Yeah,' came the reply.

'Good chance?' 'Good chance.' 'Eh?' 'Good chance.' 'Rain not made any difference
to your horse?' 'No.' 'No?' 'No.' 'Good luck.' Good luck, indeed. And they say
that horse racing needs to sell itself better and reach out to a wider audience.
Mr Manning, who had been on board the 2008 Derby winner New Approach, is
presumably the sort who likes to let his riding do the talking. If only little
Willie, a brilliant jockey, had taken the same approach.

Thank heavens for Balding.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

'Sad moment' for politics as BNP wins first Euro seat

BYLINE: James Kirkup Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712  words


NICK GRIFFIN, the leader of the British National Party, described his party's
breakthrough in the European elections as "a great moment for democracy'' and
blamed Labour for alienating voters.

The BNP won its first seat in the European Parliament as Labour headed for its
worst ever results, finishing in third place nationwide with barely 16 per cent
of the vote. The BNP made the breakthrough in the Yorkshire and  the Humber
region and was also hoping to pick up a seat in the North West, where Mr Griffin
was its leading candidate.

Mr Griffin said this morning that his party had gained from Labour's failures.
He said: "It is a historic breakthrough. It is a great moment for democracy.
Labour has helped to turn this country into a crime-ridden slum with no industry
left.''

The BNP's first elected MEP was Andrew Brons, a former politics and history
lecturer in Harrogate and former member of the National Front. In his victory
speech, he said: "The people who vote for us know what our policies are.''

Politicians from all the mainstream parties lamented the BNP gains.  Andy
Burnham, the Health Secretary, said he was "deeply uncomfortable''  with the BNP
advances. He added: "It is a sad moment. There are concerns about immigration.
The Government has to respond to those concerns.''

Tony Lloyd, the chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party, said he felt a
"sense of shame'' at the BNP's gains.

Mark Francois, the Tory Party's Europe spokesman, said: "It's a disappointing
night for British politics.'' The BNP advanced as Labour headed for its worst
ever result in a national election and was likely to finish third.

With counting still under way in many areas, the BBC projected that the Tories
would take 27 per cent of the vote, with the UK Independence Party on 17 per
cent. Labour was on course for 16 per cent, narrowly beating the Liberal
Democrats on 14 per cent.

Friends of Jane Kennedy, the Farming Minister, said she could quit the
Government today in despair at Labour's performance under Mr Brown.

John McDonnell, an MP from the Left-wing Campaign group, said that the results
showed Labour was heading for disaster at the next general election.

He said:  "If Labour MPs and Gordon Brown don't get

the message from these results we are finished.''

The BBC's projection was carried out by Prof John Curtice of Strathclyde
University, who said the Labour vote was "at the low end of the expectations.''

In Eastern England, Labour finished fourth, taking only 11 per cent of the vote,
down six percentage points from 2004.

Projections for Scotland showed the Scottish National Party was heading for 28
per cent of the vote, with Labour on 21 per cent.

In both the South East and the South West, Labour finished fifth, beaten even by
the Greens.

In London, the Tories won 27 per cent of the vote, beating Labour on 21 per
cent.

Labour did retain first place in the North East of England with 25 per cent of
the vote, but it was beaten into second place by the Tories in Wales.

Chris Bryant, the Deputy Leader of the House of Commons, said: "We've taken a
big kicking in Wales and in other places. It's bad.''

Hilary Benn, the Environment Secretary, said Labour was suffering because of
public anger over MPs' expenses. He said: "We have been affected by the expenses
scandal. There is no doubt people have been angry about that.''

Despite the Tories' first place finish, the party was heading for the same share
of the vote it got in 2004.

Ukip, by contrast, was set to increase its share of the vote marginally.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, described his party's showing as "a hell of an
achievement''.

Across Europe, far-Right parties and extremists made gains as protest votes and
low turnouts marked the European Parliament elections on the Continent.

Governments hit hard by the economic crisis were punished by angry voters, and
support for centre-Left parties and governments crashed as fringe parties, not
Socialists, picked up protest votes.

However, the centre-Right mainstream weathered the storm, keeping control of 276
out of the 736 seats.

Anti-immigrant and far-Right groups made gains in the Netherlands, Austria,
Hungary, Denmark, Slovakia and Finland.

However, the centre-Right government parties in Germany, France and Italy held
their own.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Brown on the edge;
2AM EDITION;
* Disaster for Labour;
in European elections piles on the pressure;
* Prime Minister faces showdown with backbenchers today

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786  words


GORDON BROWN'S future is in grave doubt this morning after Labour suffered
humiliating election results and the BNP gained its first seat in the European
Parliament.

The dismal results for Labour will intensify Mr Brown's leadership crisis and
could trigger more ministerial resignations and demands for him to step down.

Some Labour MPs have said the election of BNP members would be an indictment of
Mr Brown's premiership. David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, last week said it
would be a "day of shame'' for Britain.

The BNP gained the last seat in the Yorkshire and the Humber region. The Tories
came top in Yorkshire with 25 per cent of the poll, beating Labour's 19 per cent
and Ukip with 17 per cent. Results showed Labour support crumbling across the
country, even in its traditional heartlands. In Wales, the Tories beat Labour
into second place. The last time Labour failed to finish first in a national
election in Wales was 1918.

That will rapidly lead to recalculations among the rebels trying to unseat Mr
Brown. By this evening they will hope that more MPs come forward and urge Mr
Brown to go when they see the scale of Labour's national showing.

Ukip beat Labour in some significant areas with sitting Labour MPs, including
Hull where both John Prescott, the former deputy prime minister and Alan
Johnson, the Home Secretary, have seats.

The results come just days after woeful local election performance, as the
public demonstrated their anger over the abuse by MPs of their expenses system,
as disclosed by The Daily Telegraph.

Mr Brown will meet his critics face-to-face at a meeting of the Parliamentary
Labour Party in Westminster later today in the wake of the election results.

They fear Labour will be unable to avoid a heavy defeat in next year's general
election unless Mr Brown makes way for a new leader.

Yesterday, at a hastily convened meeting of Labour activists, Mr Brown insisted
he would not "walk away''. However, the calls continued.

Lord Falconer, the former Lord Chancellor, was the latest senior Labour figure
to call for a change of leader.

Tessa Jowell, the Minister for the Cabinet Office, became the first member of
the Cabinet to speculate openly that Mr Brown could be prepared to step aside if
he believed he had become an "obstacle'' to Labour winning the election.

She later suggested that Mr Brown was intending to hold a general election in
May.

Rebels are hoping enough Labour MPs will stand up at the meeting and tell the
Prime Minister to his face that they want him to go to make him think again
about staying.

Siobhain McDonagh, a former whip, said: "The majority of Labour MPs, whether
they are prepared to express it or not, think he needs to go. I would just ask
my colleagues to be brave, to stand up and to say as they feel it.''

Graham Allen, another rebel, said that if MPs do not speak out today, Mr Brown
would be likely to remain until the next general election. "Colleagues should be
aware that this is their last chance.''

Lord Falconer, a close friend of Tony Blair, said: "I think we are moving
moderately quickly towards the need for a change and that change may be a change
in leadership.

"We need unity above all. Can we get unity under the current leadership? I am
not sure that we can.''

Immediately after the meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party, Caroline Flint,
the former Europe Minister, and Stephen Byers, a former Cabinet minister and
critic of Mr Brown, will address a rally of Progress, a Blairite think tank,
where both are expected to launch fresh attacks on the Prime Minister.

Mr Brown showed no sign yesterday of standing down and after days of turmoil the
newly reshuffled Cabinet appeared united behind him.

He told a meeting of Labour activists in east London: "What would people think
of a Labour government faced with an economic crisis... if ever we walked away
from them at a time of need? We are sticking with them.''

Lord Mandelson, who as First Secretary of State has been promoted to Mr Brown's
de facto deputy, warned Labour MPs that if they changed leader there would be a
general election.

He said the only way rebels could challenge Mr Brown now was by putting up a
rival candidate, and upped the stakes for Labour MPs, warning them: "If we were
to have a third leader in a single parliament it would mean irresistible
pressure to hold a general election.''

Some of Mr Brown's closest advisers believe the absence of another minister
following James Purnell out of the Cabinet last week and an emergency reshuffle
has bought the Prime Minister some time. Alan Johnson, the Home Secretary, said:
"I don't agree that regicide gives you a united party - quite the opposite. I
think Gordon Brown is the best man for the job.''

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Voters show anger at major parties but Labour suffers most;
Analysis;
Aftermath of the expenses scandal has benefited fringe groups and caused
calamity to the ruling party

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Labour in Turmoil; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562  words


THE European elections have left all the major political parties reeling - but
Labour has been delivered a body blow.

In the aftermath of the expenses scandal, voters have shown their disdain for
the entire political establishment.

Labour's share of the vote is the lowest any governing party has ever achieved
and the party's most abject showing in any national election since shortly after
the First World War, when the party was in its infancy.

Even in the general election of 1983 - the nadir of Labour's post-war political
fortunes - they managed 28 per cent of the vote. If last Thursday's local
elections were bad for Labour, in which it lost all of its remaining county
councils, the European polls were a calamity.

In some parts of the country the party came fifth - and even sixth in areas of
the South West.

The Tories have fared better, but not spectacularly so. They are the
highest-placed party but their share is well down on the 38 per cent they
achieved in the county council contests last Thursday, which were held in areas
where the Tories are traditionally strong.

Despite the Government's desperate predicament, with ministers walking out on
Gordon Brown, the Conservative Party has secured a smaller proportion of the
vote in Europe under David Cameron than they did when William Hague was leader.

Then again, it had some notable successes, not least topping the poll in a
national election in Wales for the first time since 1918.

This "plague on all your houses'' mentality means that the big winners were the
fringe parties whom voters have felt free to support knowing they were not
electing a government. Even though it has lurched through a succession of its
own leadership and expenses difficulties, Ukip has once again benefited from a
twin disenchantment with both the British and European political classes.

Ukip did well five years ago with a big breakthrough that secured the party a
dozen seats compared to its previous three. In 2004, Ukip came third ahead of
the Lib Dems so the anti-EU party has maintained its advance.

The BNP's strong showing will deeply trouble the mainstream parties who will
pore over the result to see whether its votes are coming from traditional Labour
or Conservative supporters. The major parties will dismiss the results as the
inevitable public backlash against the expenses scandal. But, in fact, it
continues a trend that was noticeable at the last Euro elections - an increased
willingness on the part of the electorate to give traditional parties the cold
shoulder.

The Tories, in particular, must hope that, come a general election, those who
are voting for fringe parties will come over to them, especially Ukip's backers.

But there is no certainty that this will happen - and the fear among Tory
strategists is that this will cost them an outright majority in the Commons.
Even though Labour obtained just 24 per cent of the Euro vote in 2004, they went
on to win the general election the next year with just 36 per cent support from
those who voted. The Tories will judge that they can make a similar gain in the
months ahead.

But there is no escaping the message being sent out to the two parties vying to
govern the UK: the electorate has had enough of Labour but is not yet enamoured
enough of the Tories to entrust them with large-scale support that would
indicate a big majority at a general election.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

The parliament that gathers power as it turns off the voters;
Analysis

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; International - Europe Votes; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 450  words


AS THE European Parliament's powers have grown alongside those of the European
Union, voters have switched off and Euro elections have become an opportunity
for angry minorities to punish national governments.

The Continent's economic travails have only accelerated this trend. In the
Netherlands, turnout fell by three per cent, allowing an angry minority of Dutch
voters to punch above their weight and push a far-Right, explicitly anti-Muslim
party to second place behind the ruling Christian Democrats.

In Latvia, popular anger over budget cuts ordered by the International Monetary
Fund has elevated a former Communist official, once jailed for plotting a coup,
into the European Parliament.

In the 30 years since the parliament's first elections in 1979, a raft of
treaties has given MEPs power to shape 75 per cent of the legislation that
emerges from Brussels.

The parliament has passed 404 laws since the last elections in 2004. Another 233
are in the pipeline, meaning that MEPs are churning out two pieces of EU
legislation a week.

If the Lisbon Treaty gets past a second Irish referendum this autumn,
parliament's powers will expand to cover 90 per cent of EU legislation,
including security and justice policies.

Yet as the power of MEPs has grown, the parliament's popular standing has
nosedived, with turnout falling in election after election. "The paradox is that
as the European Parliament gets more power and influence, the turnout falls. It
is not very healthy and it is a truly Europe-wide phenomenon,'' said Denis
MacShane, formerly Britain's Europe minister and the Labour MP for Rotherham.

"Even the Labour Party and Government treat Europe more as a problem than an
opportunity. Why be positive about something the press and many people say is
such a problem?''

Mr MacShane believes that disenchantment with a parliament portrayed as a "waste
of space occupied by freeloaders'' and wider

British Euroscepticism has allowed unvalued elections to become a vehicle for
discontent.

"It is not seen as a serious election so people use it as a protest vote for
one-shot parties, such as the UK Independence Party, who would not usually get
any votes,'' he said.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, takes a different view. "Voter disgust has led to
increased abstention rates. But if people really want to protest, they either
don't vote at all or vote BNP. We get votes because of our policy on getting out
of Europe.''

The steadily declining turnout has alarmed officials at the highest level of the
EU. In a letter to the parliament last year, Margot Wallstrom, the European
Commission's vice-president, said: "The legitimacy of your parliament, and that
of the Union as a whole, is at stake.''

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Brown revolt as BNP enters Europe

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 677  words


SHATTERED Gordon Brown today faces a devastating showdown with a Labour mutiny
determined to drive him out of Downing Street.

The pressure intensified on Mr Brown as Labour lost a seat to the BNP, handing
the racist party its fi rst Euro-MP.

With his authority already obliterated by open warfare within his party, the
Prime Minister last night suffered a potentially mortal political blow from
voters in the Euro election.

Labour was braced for confirmation of its worst polls result in a century.

Voters in the Yorkshire and the Humber gave the BNP 10 per cent of the overall
vote. They won one seat in the region, with Labour losing a seat.

Support for the BNP was largest in Labour heartlands in South Yorkshire, more
than doubling its share of the vote.

It won 16 per cent of the vote in Barnsley - with Labour down from 42 per cent
to 25 per cent of the vote.

The BNP also won nearly 12 per cent in Doncaster and 15 per cent in Rotherham.

Former National Front leader Andrew Brons will be Britain's fi rst far right
representative at the European Parliament.

The BNP came fourth in Yorkshire and the Humber, winning 120,139 votes.

BNP leader Nick Griffin was stopped from entering Manchester Town Hall where
votes in the northwest region were being tallied.

Placard-waving demonstrators surrounded a number of cars - one of them carrying
Griffi n.

He was surrounded by burly minders and police offi cers as he eventually managed
to enter the building through a back entrance.

In the North East, the fi rst region to declare a result, Labour slumped by 9
per cent compared with the last Euro election in 2004.

The Labour vote fell to 24.9 per cent in the traditional party stronghold.

The Tories gained a 19.8 per cent vote share, the Lib Dems gained 17.6 per cent
and the BNP got nearly nine per cent.

In the East of England, Labour came fourth with the UK Independence Party
second.

The Tories topped the poll in the East of England with 31 per cent of the vote.
As results rolled in, Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman admitted the party was
on course for a "very dismal" vote.

In Scotland, early indications showed that Labour had taken a hammering from the
Scottish National Party.

Labour slumped to third behind the Tories in Edinburgh, with a big enough swing
to see Chancellor Alistair Darling losing his seat at the next general election.

And Mr Brown's nightmare will darken further today when rebels unveil the
strength of their campaign for a leadership contest at an explosive meeting of
MPs at Westminster.

As the pressure continued to intensify yesterday, a newly appointed Cabinet
Minister indicated that the Prime Minister could soon step down.

Cabinet Offi ce Minister Tessa Jowell said he would stand aside rather than
become an "obstacle" to Labour winning the next election.

The remark from a promoted minister provoked intense irritation in Downing
Street.

Ms Jowell's aides later rushed out a clarifi cation, insisting she did not want
him to resign.

Defi ant Mr Brown again vowed not to "walk away" from Number 10. But demands
from Labour ranks for him to quit did not subside yesterday.

Former Cabinet Minister Lord Falconer yesterday became the latest Labour grandee
to urge the Prime Minister to quit.

Lord Falconer, the former Lord Chancellor, said: "We need unity above all. Can
we get unity under the current leadership? I don't think so. I think we need to
debate it urgently and I think, probably, the only way it can be achieved is a
change of leader."

Peter Hain - restored to the Cabinet as Welsh Secretary in the reshuffl e - last
night forecast that the Euro results would be "terrible."

And he inadvertently added to Mr Brown's embarrassment by conceding that the
Prime Minister was not personally liked by voters.

Concerns about Mr Brown's character were heightened yesterday by a series of
leaked emails from Lord Mandelson.

It emerged that the peer - promoted to Cabinet First Secretary and effectively
deputy prime minister - described Mr Brown as "insecure" and "angry".

Lord Mandelson yesterday dismissed the email correspondence as "18 months old."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anti-BNP protesters arrive in Manchester for the results. Inset, BNP
leader Nick Griffin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Brown facing revolt after EU disaster

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 781  words


must surely make Mr Brown's position untenable.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman admitted the party had suffered a "very
dismal" night.

Early today, Labour appeared to have slumped to third place, overtaken by the
UKIP on a 17 per cent share of the vote. The Lib Dems trailed in fourth with
about a 14 per cent vote share.

Labour was beaten into second place in Wales for the first time since 1918. The
Tories came first in the principality for the fi rst time.

And Labour was being thrashed by the Scottish National Party in Gordon Brown's
own backyard north of the border.

In the North East, the fi rst region to declare, Labour slumped by 9 per cent
compared with the last Euro election in 2004.

The Labour vote fell to 24.9 per cent in the traditional party stronghold. The
Tories gained a 19.8 per cent vote share, the Lib Dems gained 17.6 per cent and
the BNP got nearly nine per cent.

In the East of England, Labour came fourth with the UK Independence Party
second.

The Tories topped the poll in the East of England with 31 per cent of the vote.

In London, Labour lost four per cent of its vote share, coming second to the
Conservatives who increased their vote share by one per cent.

The Tories retained three seats with Labour going down from three seats to two
because of a reduction in the number of MEPs going to the European Parliament
from the UK.

The Tories were on course to get around 30 per cent of the vote.

While their share appeared to have been partly depressed by the expenses
scandal, Tory chiefs were delighted by signs of success in Labour's northern
heartlands and their historic capture of Wales.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "We are advancing in all parts of
the country."

His fellow Tory frontbencher Liam Fox said: "This has been a truly historic
night."

Labour sources indicated that Mr Brown was ready to cave in to rebels over the
part sell-off of Royal Mail in a further attempt to save his skin.

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson is expected to signal that the
part-privatisation will be postponed. Left-wing Labour backbencher John
McDonnell joined the calls for Mr Brown to quit last night.

He said: "If Labour MPs and Gordon Brown don't get the message from these
results we are fi nished. The message is clear - we need a complete change of
political direction.

"New Labour is being eliminated at the ballot box. People are telling us that
they want the Labour Party to become a people's party again. Only then will we
regain the voters' trust."

Labour chiefs blamed the Westminster expenses scandal for Labour's defeat.

Ms Harman said: "Our supporters are absolutely furious with us about expenses.
They expect us to have higher standards than the Tories."

Tonight, rebel Labour MPs are set to reveal the strength of their campaign for a
leadership contest at an explosive meeting of MPs at Westminster.

Last night, Labour Chief Whip Nick Brown urged the rebels to put up or shut up.

He said: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if they've
got sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference.

"If they can't do that, they should get behind the leadership that the
overwhelming majority of party members support."

As the pressure continued to intensify yesterday, a newly appointed Cabinet
Minister indicated that the Prime Minister could soon step down.

Cabinet Offi ce Minister Tessa Jowell said he would stand aside rather than
become an "obstacle" to Labour winning the next election. The remark from a
promoted minister provoked intense irritation in Downing Street.

Ms Jowell's aides later rushed out a clarifi cation, insisting she did not want
him to resign.

Defi ant Mr Brown again vowed not to "walk away" from Number 10. But demands
from Labour ranks for him to quit did not subside yesterday.

Former Cabinet Minister Lord Falconer yesterday became the latest Labour grandee
to urge the Prime Minister to quit.

Lord Falconer, the former Lord Chancellor, said: "We need unity above all. Can
we get unity under the current leadership? I don't think so. The only way it can
be achieved is a change of leader."

Peter Hain - restored to the Cabinet as Welsh Secretary in the reshuffle - last
night forecast that the Euro results would be "terrible."

And he inadvertently added to Mr Brown's embarrassment by conceding that the
Prime Minister was not personally liked by voters.

Concerns about Mr Brown's character were heightened yesterday by a series of
leaked emails from Lord Mandelson.

It emerged that the peer - promoted to Cabinet First Secretary and effectively
deputy prime minister - described Mr Brown as "insecure" and "angry".

Lord Mandelson yesterday dismissed the email correspondence as "18 months old".

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On the brink, Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

NOW BROWN IS MAULED IN EU POLLS;
PM faces rebellion today

BYLINE: By Macer Hall and Gabriel Milland

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 946  words


GORDON Brown is facing his fi nal judgment day today after Labour suffered its
worst ever election result.

The Prime Minister's hopes of clinging to his job were destroyed as his party
slumped to around a 16 per cent share of the vote in the European poll.

And his misery was intensifi ed by a shock success for the extremist British
National Party.

The disastrous poll rating indicated that Labour is on course for a historic
trouncing at the next General Election. At a stroke, it slashed Mr Brown's hopes
of surviving the revolt of his own MPs aiming to turf him out of offi ce.

Labour rebels will tonight confront the Prime Minister with their demand for a
leadership contest at an explosive meeting in Westminster.

All three major parties suffered an uncomfortable night as voters took revenge
for the Parliamentary expenses scandal.

The UK Independence Party appeared to be the main beneficiary of voters' anger
with a surge in support and was on course to grab second place. The outcome must
surely make Mr Brown's position untenable.

Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman admitted the party had suffered a "very
dismal" night.

Early today, Labour appeared to have slumped to third place, overtaken by the
UKIP on a 17 per cent share of the vote. The Lib Dems trailed in fourth with
about a 14 per cent vote share.

Labour was beaten into second place in Wales for the first time since 1918. The
Tories came first in the principality for the fi rst time.

And Labour was being thrashed by the Scottish National Party in Gordon Brown's
own backyard north of the border.

In the North East, the fi rst region to declare, Labour slumped by 9 per cent
compared with the last Euro election in 2004.

The Labour vote fell to 24.9 per cent in the traditional party stronghold. The
Tories gained a 19.8 per cent vote share, the Lib Dems gained 17.6 per cent and
the BNP got nearly nine per cent.

In the East of England, Labour came fourth with the UK Independence Party
second.

The Tories topped the poll in the East of England with 31 per cent of the vote.

In London, Labour lost four per cent of its vote share, coming second to the
Conservatives who increased their vote share by one per cent.

The Tories retained three seats with Labour going down from three seats to two
because of a reduction in the number of MEPs going to the European Parliament
from the UK.

The Tories were on course to get around 30 per cent of the vote.

While their share appeared to have been partly depressed by the expenses
scandal, Tory chiefs were delighted by signs of success in Labour's northern
heartlands and their historic capture of Wales.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "We are advancing in all parts of
the country."

His fellow Tory frontbencher Liam Fox said: "This has been a truly historic
night."

Labour sources indicated that Mr Brown was ready to cave in to rebels over the
part sell-off of Royal Mail in a further attempt to save his skin.

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson is expected to signal that the
part-privatisation will be postponed. Left-wing Labour backbencher John
McDonnell joined the calls for Mr Brown to quit last night.

He said: "If Labour MPs and Gordon Brown don't get the message from these
results we are fi nished. The message is clear - we need a complete change of
political direction.

"New Labour is being eliminated at the ballot box. People are telling us that
they want the Labour Party to become a people's party again. Only then will we
regain the voters' trust."

Labour chiefs blamed the Westminster expenses scandal for Labour's defeat.

Ms Harman said: "Our supporters are absolutely furious with us about expenses.
They expect us to have higher standards than the Tories."

Tonight, rebel Labour MPs are set to reveal the strength of their campaign for a
leadership contest at an explosive meeting of MPs at Westminster.

Last night, Labour Chief Whip Nick Brown urged the rebels to put up or shut up.

He said: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if they've
got sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference.

"If they can't do that, they should get behind the leadership that the
overwhelming majority of party members support."

As the pressure continued to intensify yesterday, a newly appointed Cabinet
Minister indicated that the Prime Minister could soon step down.

Cabinet Offi ce Minister Tessa Jowell said he would stand aside rather than
become an "obstacle" to Labour winning the next election. The remark from a
promoted minister provoked intense irritation in Downing Street.

Ms Jowell's aides later rushed out a clarifi cation, insisting she did not want
him to resign.

Defi ant Mr Brown again vowed not to "walk away" from Number 10. But demands
from Labour ranks for him to quit did not subside yesterday.

Former Cabinet Minister Lord Falconer yesterday became the latest Labour grandee
to urge the Prime Minister to quit.

Lord Falconer, the former Lord Chancellor, said: "We need unity above all. Can
we get unity under the current leadership? I don't think so. The only way it can
be achieved is a change of leader."

Peter Hain - restored to the Cabinet as Welsh Secretary in the reshuffle - last
night forecast that the Euro results would be "terrible."

And he inadvertently added to Mr Brown's embarrassment by conceding that the
Prime Minister was not personally liked by voters.

Concerns about Mr Brown's character were heightened yesterday by a series of
leaked emails from Lord Mandelson.

It emerged that the peer - promoted to Cabinet First Secretary and effectively
deputy prime minister - described Mr Brown as "insecure" and "angry".

Lord Mandelson yesterday dismissed the email correspondence as "18 months old".

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On the brink, Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: Labour's long, dark night: Tories surge as BNP wins first Euro seats:
Labour expects to come third after Ukip: Officials say share of vote could be
16%: Rebels offered deals on Royal Mail and Iraq

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words


Gordon Brown faces a make or break challenge to his leadership today after
Labour trailed humiliatingly behind Ukip in the European elections and was
expected to garner about 16% or 17% of the vote, its lowest share since the
first world war and below the party's worst expectations.

During a dramatic night of unremitting gloom for Downing Street, the Tories
appeared to have pulled more than 10 points ahead of Labour, with Ukip in
second. The BNP also secured its first significant wins in British politics when
its leader Nick Griffin became an MEP in the north-west, and Andrew Brons - a
former leader of the National Front - won in Yorkshire and Humber. The major
parties blamed each other for the drift to the far-right reflected in results
across the country.

Labour's drubbing will lead Brown to offer concessions to his backbenchers by
promising to delay plans for the part-privatisation of the Royal Mail, and to
bring forward proposals for an inquiry into the origins of the Iraq war. The
prime minister is battling to ensure a backbench rebellion does not spread to
the left of the party, or to MPs in Labour heartlands where the party fared
worst last night.

Rebel leaders will meet today in advance of a pivotal meeting of the
parliamentary party tonight to analyse the highly varied result and decide if
they have enough support to mount a challenge.

A leading Labour rebel, Barry Sheerman, said last night he was prepared to meet
the challenge posed by the party's chief whip, Nick Brown, to put up or shut up.

The party's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, described this morning's results as
dismal, while the former lord chancellor and close friend of Tony Blair, Lord
Falconer, called on Brown to go, saying: "I believe if we change leader then we
can go into the next election, whenever it was, so much stronger."

Results in by 2am showed:

* The Labour share of the vote down 6% on the equivalent European elections five
years ago. Labour had its worst results since 1918 in Scotland and Wales. In
Cornwall the party came sixth behind the Cornish Nationalist party. In the
south-east , Labour was likely to come fifth, behind the Greens, although the
party's vote was holding up in the central London.

* The Conservatives had come first nationally with a vote of just under 27%,
Ukip was second with a vote of around 18%, and Labour third and the Liberal
Democrats trailing fourth as they did in 2005. Turnout was around 34%.

* The British National party hailed their triumphs in the north-west and
Yorkshire and Humberside. Brons said it was the first step for the UK getting
freedom from the EU dictatorship.

* With eight of 10 English reasons declared, the Tories had won 19 seats, Ukip
10, Labour eight, the Lib Dems eight, and the Greens two.

Number 10 argued the vote reflected an anti-mainstream politics revolt, rather
than a vote against Labour, pointing to the surge for Ukip, as opposed to any
big rise for the Conservatives. Labour officials also said that a European
election had limited relevance to a general election held by the first past the
post system in which minor parties would fade.

But Labour MPs will be able to analyse the results on the basis of parliamentary
constituencies, giving them a projection of whether they will survive.

Sheerman, the Labour chairman of the schools select committee, and the man who
will challenge the party's high command by calling for a secret ballot on the
leadership, described the results as "ghastly and a disaster".

The rebels want a minimum of 50 MPs signing up to their cause before they go
public with their names. Some want to appeal to the prime minister to stage a
secret ballot on his leadership as way of establishing whether there is
confidence in him.

In an effort to contain the rebellion, Brown's allies signalled ministers would
admit today that the part-privatisation of the Royal Mail is likely to be
delayed due to the low level of the bids being received for a proposed 30% from
the two main interested companies. Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, is
expected to say he would put the interests of the taxpayer first, and
acknowledge that the depressed market and scale of union opposition was
deterring sufficiently high bids.

The postal services bill should still receive a second reading in the Commons
despite Labour backbench opposition. One minister said: "We have a problem about
the quantity of bids and their value".

Downing Street said Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, has been
instructed by Brown to prepare advice on the scope, timing, membership and
process of the inquiry into the Iraq war, including the degree to which it is
held in public. An announcement was expected "in weeks rather than days". In two
pieces of good news for the prime minister, James Purnell, the man who sparked a
rebellion by quitting the cabinet on Thursday night, will not make a resignation
statement in the Commons.

In the key argument made for shoring up Brown, Mandelson said: "If we were to
have a third leader in a single parliament it would mean an irresistible
argument for an immediate election."

One cabinet member predicted Brown would survive saying it would not be a vote
of confidence in the prime minister, but a vote on no confidence in the
consequences of getting rid of him.

Labour's European meltdown was amplified on a continental scale last night as
the centre-left across the EU suffered defeats despite an economic climate from
which it should profit. The most significant outcome was in Germany, the EU's
biggest member country, where the Social Democrats (SPD) came in 17 points
behind Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats and their Bavarian CSU
ally.

In France, and Italy the centre-right also scored victories while Spain's
socialist government lost to the conservatives.

Larry Elliott, page 26 >=

Jackie Ashley, page 29 >=

Leader comment, page 30 >=

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: European elections: David Cameron heading for victory as Labour vote
crumbles across UK: Large Ukip vote may push party into third place:
Conservatives come first in Wales: BNP wins Yorkshire and Humber seat

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Allegra Stratton

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 980 words


David Cameron was this morning heading for victory in the elections to the
European parliament, as Labour saw its vote crumble across Britain, amid signs
it would be beaten into third place by the UK Independence party.

Labour was experiencing setbacks across the country as its vote appeared to have
collapsed to between 16 and 17%, and it suffered the embarrassment of losing one
of two seats in Yorkshire and the Humber to the British National party.

In a major setback, it was beaten to second place in Wales by the Tories, as its
vote collapsed by 12 percentage points - the first time Labour has failed to
carry the principality since the "khaki election" of 1918, when the Liberals
won. The Tories came top there last night with 21% of the vote, up two points,
just ahead of Labour on 20%. It was a major turnaround for the Conservatives,
who failed to win any parliamentary seats in Wales in the 1997 general election.

Cheryl Gillan, the shadow Welsh secretary, said: "This is an historic result.
Gordon Brown has gone down in history as the first Labour prime minister to have
'lost' Wales."

The poor showing for Labour was matched in other heartland areas. In the first
result of the night, the party saw its vote drop by nine percentage points in
its heartland of north-east England. It still came first, with 147,338 votes,
but was closely followed by the Tories on 116,911.

The party feared it was on course to win only one MEP in many of Britain's 11
regions. But it hopes to hold its two seats in Scotland and lose just one seat
in London, to slip down to two MEPs in the capital. But Labour is expected to
lose its one seat in the south-west after coming fifth behind the Greens. This
would give it 12 MEPs, a loss of

seven seats on the 19 elected in the 2004 elections.

However, it is difficult to make a like-for-like comparison on seats. Britain is
seeing its seats in Strasbourg fall from 78 to 72 as older EU member countries
make way for states that joined in 2004.

Harriet Harman, the party's deputy leader, said: "We are bracing ourselves for
very dismal results, there is no doubt about that. Our supporters are absolutely
furious with us about expenses. They expect us to have higher standards than the
Tories."

There were mildly encouraging signs for Labour in some areas. It appeared to be
on course to hold its two seats in Scotland, though the Scottish National Party
was expected to dislodge Labour from the top slot in the popular vote.

As Labour faltered, the Tories were on course to top the poll across the
country, with around 27% of the vote, handing Cameron the largest number of
British MEPs in the European parliament. The Tories performed strongly in areas
of southern England currently represented by Labour.

They topped the poll with 31.2% of the vote in Stroud, in Gloucestershire, a
seat held by Labour at Westminster. Labour came fifth with 11.8% of the vote.
David Drew won Stroud for Labour in the 2005 general election with 39.48% of the
vote, with the Tories second with 38.87%.

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, said last night the Conservatives
were in their best shape in 30 years, after the party increased its share of the
vote in the north-east of England. "We are advancing in all parts of the
country," he told the BBC. "We are in good shape - the best shape in 30 to 40
years to be winning parliamentary seats in the north-east."

Cameron will regard his success as an important boost before the general
election. But the Tories' 27% this morning was a marginal improvement on their
performance in the last European election in 2004 when they won with 26.7% of
the vote, only to lose the general election the following year. Labour came
second in 2004 with 22.6% of the vote and went on to win their third successive
term in Downing Street in 2005.

The Tories' success means that Cameron will face one of the toughest challenges
of his leadership: taking the party out of the main centre-right EPP-ED grouping
in Strasbourg and establishing a new pan-European Eurosceptic group. Under the
EU parliament's rules, the Tories must include MEPs from at least seven member
countries to form a grouping.

Cameron has faced criticism from party grandees and former senior diplomats
because his group will be dominated by socially conservative parties from
eastern Europe. The two biggest parties that have pledged to join the new group
are the ODS from the Czech Republic, whose founder, Vaclav Klaus, has questioned
many current assumptions about climate change, and Poland's Law and Justice
party, whose founders have made homophobic statements. Hague yesterday defended
Cameron's decision to leave the EPP, a pledge the Tory leader made during the
2005 leadership contest.

The vote of the Liberal Democrats, the most pro-European of the main British
political parties, appeared to have held up after the first poll results came
in. Early indications showed the party would come in fourth behind the Tories,
Ukip and Labour. Polls at 10pm suggested the Lib Dems were on a marginally
higher share of the vote than in 2004 when they also came fourth with 14.9% of
the vote.

The first UK result gave the Lib Dems one seat in the European parliament,
alongside the Conservatives and Labour, in the north-east. The party received
17.6% compared with the 19.8% for the Tories and 25% for Labour in the
north-east. Early indications suggested the Lib Dems' vote was staying around
the same.

The result comes after disappointing results in the English local elections on
Thursday, when they won around 28% of the projected vote, though this was some
5% more than the 23% Labour received.

After early results, Graham Watson, the Lib Dem leader in the European
parliament, said: "I think it is true that the right wing has benefited more
from the current crisis than the left and the answer to me is clear: people
don't want a return to socialism."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: European elections: BNP: Gri&#64259;n wins second seat for far-right
party

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


The leader of the far-right British National party won a seat in the European
parliament in a dramatic late count this morning. Nick Gri&#64259;n scraped
through in the

north-west of England to become the second BNP candidate to take a seat in the
European elections. The former leader of

the National Front, Andrew Brons, had earlier become an MEP for the BNP in
Yorkshire and the Humber. Brons took a seat which was previously Labour's second
in Yorkshire, as the Commons expenses debacle and internecine warfare in Labour
turned its traditional supporters away in droves.

The Labour vote crashed from 45 to 25% in Barnsley, where the BNP's share
climbed from eight to 17%.

iI regard this as the first step to the UK getting freedom from the EU
dictatorship,i Brons said early this morn-

ing. iDespite the headlines, despite the money, despite the misrepresentation,
we have managed to win through.i

Shahid Malik, Labour MP for Dewsbury, said: iIt's a profoundly sad day for
British politics and for our great democracy, in this region in particular.
Yorkshire is

renowned for fair play and decency. I hope many Yorkshire voters will examine
their consciences when they wake up in the morning.i Mainstream parties needed
to redouble their e&#64256;orts to engage with their constituents and push for
ino tolerance on racism and discriminationi, he said.

Malik added: iIt's also signifi cant that there has been a sharp decline in the
turnout, and many people didn't bother to come out and vote.i

Griffin welcomed the BNP victory as vindication of the party's stance. iWe're
here to look after our people, because no one else is,i he said. He said that
feelings

were particularly strong in Yorkshire, where former pit communities felt iat the
bottom of the heapi.

Pointing to other big rises in the BNP vote, to 15% in Rotherham, and nearly 12%
in Doncaster, he said: iThis is ordi-nary decent people in Yorkshire kicking

back against racism, because racism in this country is now directed
overwhelmingly against people who look like me.i

Griffin spoke while waiting to hear whether he had scraped home to take a seat
in the north-west of England. He had

to arrive at Manchester town hall for his count in a police van after
anti-fascist protesters blocked his convoy and hurled eggs. He said last night
that immigration

had become harmful to Britain, particularly with the spread of radical Islam:
iTake Bradford; it isn't immigration that's happening there, it's colonialism.i

His own evening was one long lurch between advances and retreats for the BNP, as
declarations came in from the

north-west's 39 counting areas. In a reverse e&#64256;ect to Yorkshire, support
fell in areas where the party had done well in the past. In Burnley, where they
won one of

their fi rst English county council seats on

Thursday, it dropped from 17% to 15%.

But the slump in Labour's vote was common to the north-west and Yorkshire,
leaving the battle for the last of the region's eight seats open until the end.
After the Conservatives had made sure of two, and Labour, Ukip and the Lib Dems
one each, the BNP and the Greens level-pegged for

the fi nal two hours of counting.

Brons said after the Yorkshire count in Leeds: iThe onslaught against us has
been more than against any other party in recent times, but somehow we've

overcome it. Despite the lies, despite the money, despite the misrepresentation,
we've been able to win through.i

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: European elections: Political briefing: Battening down the hatches

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 488 words


A nother bad night for Gordon Brown then, beaten

in heartland Scotland and even Wales. But he was

not alone. Parties of the centre left fell back across

Europe despite the crisis of global capitalism.

Will the pan-EU trend n which also saw fringe parties of the outer right,
including Ukip, unsettle the centre

right n give Brown his escape card at Westminster? Allies hope so, and the
tortured PM intends to fi ght on.

Ministers who spent five minutes with him at the weekend found him
short-tempered, full of gallows

humour, but iunbelievably determinedi. As Bill Clinton discovered, it's the
economy, stupid. Brown remains

convinced that he, not David Cameron, is the man to put it right.

So grim European election results may not change anything. Rebel MPs can blame
Brown, loyalists blame them

back, along with the all-party expenses scandal and a shrill media pack.

With Peter Mandelson as his co pilot (iI have been reintroduced to Gordon's good
qualities,i the fi rst secretary is telling colleagues), Brown may even achieve
the capacity to make rapid and e&#64256;ective decisions that has so long eluded
his premiership.

That is what the loyalists dare to hope. Liam Byrne, newly promoted to be
Alistair Darling's number two, had

set up a structure for processing decisions at Downing Street, but lacked the
clout to enforce it. Mandelson will not have that problem.

The loose confederation of rebel Labour MPs who want Brown out will not give up
without the showdown

they hope to engineer at tonight's meeting of the backbench PLP. Will Brown
attend? That depends on the

advice his chief whip, Nick Brown, gives him after reading the results.

Brown may decide he is best defended in absentia against opponents he dismisses
as unreconciled Blairites and

assorted ex- and wannabe-ministers.

That is unjust. Weighty MPs, beyond bitterness and personal ambition, fight on
both sides, though the real movers

and shakers rarely appear on TV.

Signifi cantly, no MP on Labour's parliamentary committee, elected by other MPs,
has moved against Brown.

The iGordon must goi camp, who fear a Michael Foot-style meltdown next 6 May,
face hurdles hard to overcome and a rule book administered by general secretary
Ray Collins,

a union veteran who will not indulge MPs.

T he obvious hurdle is finding even one credible candidate

behind whom they can unite. Matey Alan Johnson

and cerebral David Miliband will not move against

Brown. Each knows he lacks wide support among MPs or n often forgotten n
activists and unions who help pick

leaders.

Another unelected prime minister must mean an October election, loyalists now
argue. The left, even old foe

Ken Livingstone, has rallied behind Brown, tribal loyalty to the fore.

It may all be delusional, but battening down the hatches is what political
parties do in a storm, hoping that the

faint light on the horizon is economic recovery. What must Brown do meanwhile?
iGovern,i Mandelson said on

TV. He intends to try.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: European elections: Ukip hoping to reap reward of anger against main
parties: Supporters hope to better 2004 showing: Party leader praises 'guts' of
Enoch Powell

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 672 words


The United Kingdom Independence party was last night

on course for a strong showing in the European parliamentary elections as it won
support from an assort-

ment of Eurosceptics and voters angry with Britain's main parties.

There were fears among Ukip supporters earlier this year that the party would
struggle to match its success at the last elections in 2004, when it won 16.1%
of the

vote and Robert Kilroy-Silk was elected as one of its 12 MEPs.

But Ukip supporters were hopeful last night that they may have matched this or
done better this time around.

Early indications showed the party was performing strongly across England,
although it said its vote was hit in Yorkshire where the party's name was
obscured on

ballot papers because it appeared under the fold. The party formally protested
to the Electoral Commission after receiving complaints from 2,000 supporters.

The strong showing will be a particular boost for Nigel Farage, one of Ukip's
original founding members in 1993 who

emerged as leader in 2006 after a series of internal battles. Farage clashed
with Kilroy-Silk, whose election as a Ukip MEP in 2004 won the party widespread
national coverage before he &#64258;ounced out of the party.

Ukip sources admitted last night they had benefi ted from the row over
Westminster parliamentary expenses, although

they said that nobody would support them unless they were Eurosceptic. iThere
has definitely been a feeling of

a pox on all your houses and we are not seen as part of the Westminster gravy
train,i one party source said. iWe are a

safe repository for Eurosceptic voters who are angry with the main parties on
issues other than the EU.i

The party believes that it has successfully fought o&#64256; claims by Labour,
the Tories and the Liberal Democrats that Ukip is a respectable version of the
British National

party. iWe have nailed the lie that we are

the BNP in suits,i one party source said after David Cameron described Ukip as
ifruitcakes, loonies and closet racistsi.

But a strong showing will mean that Ukip will face greater scrutiny in future.

The party received a great deal of attention after Kilroy-Silk was elected as an
MEP in the East Midlands in 2004. The coverage tailed o&#64256; , even after the
2007 jailing for benefit fraud of Ashley Mote, one of its MEPs elected in 2004
who subsequently sat as an independent . Tom Wise, another MEP, has been charged
with money laundering and false accounting.

Farage admitted that Ukip has isu&#64256;ered horriblyi from members who had
embar-

rassed the party. But he said he had dealt

iruthlesslyi with corruption.

Entering the British political mainstream, by beating one of the main parties in
this year's election, will mean that Ukip will face new pressure to show that it
is not

a mild version of the BNP. But the party has hardline policies on immigration.

Ukip would like to pull out of the EU so that it can place a cap on citizens
from all 27 members of the EU entering Britain. At the moment, any EU citizen
can enter Brit-

ain, though there are work restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians.

Farage insists he is not a member of the hard right. But over the weekend he
lavished praise on Enoch Powell, who was

ejected from the political mainstream in 1968 after delivering his notorious
irivers of bloodi speech.

iEnoch Powell was an extraordinary

fellow,i Farage said. iI admired him for having the guts to talk about an issue
that seemed to be really rather important n immigration, society, how do we want
to

live in this country.i

The success of Ukip will be a blow to the Tories who expelled one of their most
generous donors, the spread betting millionaire Stuart Wheeler, after he donated

£100,000 to the party. This helped finance

a simple, but highly effective, national poster campaign which said: iSay no to
paying the EU £40m a dayi next to a picture of Winston Churchill.

Lord Tebbit, the former Conservative chairman, also came close to being expelled
from the Tories after he all but

endorsed Ukip last month by calling on

voters to snub the main parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Front: European elections: Ukip: Eurosceptics claim second place is political
earthquake

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 696 words


The United Kingdom Independence party was last night on course for a strong
showing in the European elections as it won support from Eurosceptics and voters
angry with Britain's main parties.

In early results Ukip did better than in the last elections in 2004 when it came
third nationally, behind the Conservatives and Labour, with 16.2% of the vote.

The party last night saw its share of the vote increase by three points in the
north-east of England, the first result of the night, where it polled 90,700 to
come in fourth place. It held on to two seats in the east of England.

Ukip supporters were hoping last night that in the final national result they
would overtake Labour and secure second place behind the Tories with a share of
more than 20% of the overall vote.

Nigel Farage, the party leader, said: "So far there are tremors but before the
end of the night we could have created a political earthquake."

Surrounded by jubilant supporters at the count for the south-east region in
Southampton, Farage added: "What we are seeing is a very strong performance in
the north where we have young, bright and gifted people. We used to be a party
confined largely to the south-west and south-east but from these results we can
see that that is no longer the case.

"What this has shown us is that there are an increasing number of people who
agree with our stance on Europe. But one of the limitations we are facing now is
the number of anti-EU groups that have sprung up. I certainly intend to talk to
them in the next few weeks and see if we can come together to form some sort of
overall umbrella organisation."

Early indications showed Ukip was performing strongly across England, although
it said its vote was hit in Yorkshire where the party's name was obscured on
ballot papers because it appeared under the fold. Ukip has formally protested to
the Electoral commission.

Farage said many districts across the south east and Yorkshire had been hit by
the problem and said where there was "empirical evidence" results had been
affected, the party reserved the right to call for elections to be re-run. "I am
so angry I can hardly contain myself. We have widespread reports of our
supporters simply not being able to find us on the paper and either voting for
other parties or sometimes writing Ukip on the form - which of course counts as
a spoiled ballot.".

The strong showing will be a particular boost for Farage, one of the original
Ukip founders in 1993. He emerged as the leader in 2006 after a series of
internal battles. He clashed with Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television
presenter whose election in 2004 won Ukip wide coverage before he flounced out
of the party.

Ukip sources admitted last night they had benefited from the row over expenses,
although they said that nobody would support them unless they were Eurosceptic.
"There has definitely been a feeling of 'a pox on all your houses' and we are
not seen as part of the Westminster gravy train," one party source said. "We are
a safe repository for Eurosceptic voters who are angry with the main parties on
issues other than the EU."

Harry Aldridge, number five on Ukip's candidate list in the south-east, said the
party had performed strongly in the northwest, East Anglia and the East
Midlands.

"We have pushed the Tories very hard in some places like Christchurch and we are
very happy with how it has gone so far although there is still a long way to
go."

The party believes it success shows it has successfully fought off claims that
it is a respectable version of the British National party. "We have nailed the
lie that we are the BNP in suits," one party source said after David Cameron
described Ukip as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

But a strong showing will mean Ukip facing greater scrutiny in future.

Coverage of the party tailed off even after the 2007 jailing for fraud of Ashley
Mote, one of its MEPs, who was elected in 2004 and subsequently sat as an
independent. Tom Wise, another MEP, has been charged with money laundering and
false accounting. Farage admitted that Ukip has "suffered horribly" from members
who had embarrassed it, but said he had dealt "ruthlessly" with corruption.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Bad results for Gordon Brown - but also for left across EU

LENGTH: 543 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Are the EU election results awful enough to finish off the
tortured nail-biter? Hard to say - probably not

FULL TEXT

Another bad night for Gordon Brown, beaten in heartland Scotland and even Wales,
Labour failures blamed for the BNP's arrival in Strasbourg politics shortly
before midnight and, more important, EU funding.

Brown was not discomforted alone. Parties of the centre left fell back across
Europe despite the crisis of global capitalism. The outer right, Ukip as well as
BNP, also made gains that will box in David Cameron.

Wales? Scotland? Is it awful enough to finish off the tortured nail-biter? Hard
to say - probably not. Brown intends to fight on and ministers who spent five
minutes with him at the weekend found him short-tempered, full of gallows
humour, but "unbelievably determined".

As Bill Clinton discovered, it's the economy, stupid. Brown remains convinced
that he, not Cameron, is the man to put it right.

So tonight's grim European election results may not change anything. Rebel MPs
can blame Brown, loyalists blame them back, as well as heaping blame on the
all-party expenses scandal and a shrill media pack.

With Peter Mandelson as his co-pilot ("I have been reintroduced to Gordon's good
qualities," the first secretary is telling colleagues), Brown may even achieve
the capacity to make rapid and effective decisions that has so long eluded his
premiership.

That is what the loyalists dare to hope. Liam Byrne, newly-promoted to be
Alistair Darling's No 2, had set up a structure for processing decisions at
Downing Street, but lacked the clout to enforce it. Mandelson, feared and
admired across Whitehall, will not have that problem.

The loose confederation of rebel Labour MPs who want Brown out will not give up
without the showdown they hope to engineer at tonight's meeting of the backbench
PLP. Brown will attend on the advice his chief whip, Nick Brown, to face down
opponents he dismisses as unreconciled Blairites and assorted
ex-and-wannabe-ministers.

That is unjust. Weighty MPs, beyond bitterness and personal ambition, fight on
both sides, though the real movers and shakers rarely appear on TV.

Significantly no MP on Labour's parliamentary committee, elected by other MPs,
has moved against Brown.

In any case the "Gordon must go" camp, who fear a Michael Foot-style meltdown at
the general election (6 May 6), face practical hurdles hard to overcome and a
rulebook administered by general secretary Ray Collins, a union veteran who will
not indulge MPs.

The obvious hurdle is finding even one credible candidate behind whom they can
unite. Matey Alan Johnson and cerebral David Miliband will not move against
Brown. Each knows he lacks wide support among MPs or - often forgotten -
activists and unions who help pick leaders. Not all unions love Johnson, one of
their own.

Another unelected prime minister must mean an October election, loyalists also
argue. The left, even old foe Ken Livingstone, has rallied behind Brown, tribal
loyalty to the fore.

It may all be delusional, but battening down the hatches is what political
parties do in a storm, hoping that the faint light on the horizon is economic
recovery. What must Brown do in the meantime? "Govern," Mandelson said on TV. He
intends to try.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

European elections: Ukip leader claims party is on course for record result

LENGTH: 561 words

ABSTRACT

Nigel Farage predicts 'political earthquake' and says party has increased share
of vote across country

FULL TEXT

The UK Independence party said it was on course for a record performance in last
night's European elections with some activists predicting it would come in ahead
of both Labour and the Lib Dems.

Nigel Farage, the party's leader, said had increased its share of the vote
across the country, although he warned it was unlikely the party would pick up
more than one or two extra MEPs.

"So far there are tremors, but before the end of the night we could have created
a political earthquake," he told jubilant supporters at the count for the South
East region in Southampton.

Five years ago the party got 16% of the vote in the European elections but it
expects to increase that this time - a result that would heap pressure on Gordon
Brown.

"We appear to have come second in a national election which is a pretty good
performance," said Farage. "We missed out on a couple seats by less than 1%,
which is disappointing - especially when the BNP has got an MEP - but our
performance has probably been sufficient to deliver the coup de grace against
Brown."

Ukip picked up 12 MEPs in 2004 and fielded a full slate of candidates in this
year's European election. Initial results last night suggested it would increase
that number by one or two MEPs.

The party had secured its first MEP in Wales, although it failed to make a
breakthrough in the North East and narrowly failed to pick up a second MEP in
Yorkshire and a third in the South West.

"What this has shown us is that are an increasing number of people who agree
with our stance on Europe," said Farage. "But one of the limitations we are
facing now is the number of anti-EU groups that have sprung up. I certainly
intend to talk to them in the next few weeks and see if we can come together to
form some sort of overall umbrella organisation."

Harry Aldridge, number five on Ukip's candidate list in the South East, said the
party had performed strongly in East Anglia and the East Midlands. But in the
latter area, the party went from two to one MEPs.

"It has been a very solid performance and are quite clearly in second place
overall."

Earlier Farage had claimed that the party had lost tens of thousands of votes
because Ukip's name was hidden under a small fold at the bottom of some ballot
papers.

Speaking before the results were announced, he said many districts across the
South East and Yorkshire had been hit by the problem and warned that where there
was "empirical evidence" the party reserved the right to call for the elections
to be rerun.

"I am so angry I can hardly contain myself," he said. "We have widespread
reports of our supporters simply not being able to find us on the paper and
either voting for other parties or sometimes writing Ukip on the form - which of
course counts as a spoiled ballot."

Ukip first raised concerns over the folded ballot papers hours after polls
opened on Thursday and the government asked returning officers to unfold the
papers before giving them to voters.

However Farage said it appeared the problem had not been resolved. The names of
the parties on the ballot paper are listed in alphabetical order.

"If we find empirical evidence that this has had a major impact then we reserve
the right to call for these elections to be rerun in the areas concerned."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

European elections: Brown faces leadership battle amid Labour meltdown and BNP
success

LENGTH: 953 words

ABSTRACT

· BNP's Nick Griffin elected to EU parliament· Labour share of national vote
could slump to just 16%

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown today faces a make-or-break challenge to his leadership after
Labour looked set to slump to just 16% of the national vote in the European
elections and the far-right British National party won two new seats.

In a devastating result for the prime minister, , his party securing 132,094
votes. There were boos from the crowd as the result was read out.

Earlier, Andrew Brons, the party's candidate in Yorkshire and the Humber, was
elected to the EU parliament - the first time the far-right party had ever
secured a seat.

The party won 10% of the vote - more than 120,000 votes - in Yorkshire and the
Humber.

In Wales, the Conservatives topped the polls for the first time since 1918 when
Labour lost 12% of the vote.

The results brought fresh peril for the beleaguered prime minister as Labour was
pushed into fourth and sometimes fifth place across whole swaths of the country.

Early projections suggested the Conservatives would come first, with just under
30% of the vote, the United Kingdom Independence party second, with around 20%,
and Labour and the Liberal Democrats would battle it out for third and fourth
place.

In the North East, the first UK region to declare, the state of the parties
remained the same, with one seat going to Labour, one to the Conservatives and
one to the Liberal Democrats.

Labour's share of the vote was down 9%, the Tories were up 1% and the Lib Dems
saw no change.

The state of the parties also remained static in the East of England, with the
Conservatives returning three MEPs, Ukip two and Labour and the Lib Dems one
each. However, Labour's share of the vote was down 6%.

In the West Midlands, Labour lost a seat to Ukip and was down also down 6%.

Labour fared better in London, retaining both its seats and losing just 3.5% of
the vote.

However, it was not enough to silence the growing army of Brown's critics.

Labour MP John McDonnell said: "If Labour MPs and Gordon Brown don't get the
message from these results we are finished. The message is clear: we need a
complete change of political direction. New Labour is being eliminated at the
ballot box. People are telling us that they want the Labour party to become a
people's party again.

"Only then will we regain the voters' trust."

: "My view is that the painful step of changing our leader, a leader who has
given his life to the Labour party and to public service, would be best for the
party and the country."

Harriet Harman, the Labour deputy leader, described tonight's results as
"dismal" for the party, which was pushed into fifth place in the South East with
half the votes counted.

Official EU projections indicated that the centre-right parties would emerge as
the largest grouping in the European parliament.

Hours before the crucial Euro results were due to be announced, Brown's hopes of
survival suffered a further setback when Lord Falconer, became the most senior
figure yet to call for a leadership contest.

The peer - once Tony Blair's flatmate - warned that potential candidates were
waiting in the wings, ready to mount a challenge, if Brown was not prepared to
stand down as prime minister.

Meanwhile, Tessa Jowell became the first member of the cabinet to speculate
openly that Brown could be prepared to step aside if he believed he had become
an "obstacle" to Labour winning the next general election.

If Labour were to end up coming fourth behind the Liberal Democrats, it could be
the catalyst for plotters behind the so-called "peasants' revolt" to show their
hand when MPs return to Westminster tomorrow.

Brown sought to rally support with a televised address to a hastily arranged
gathering of sympathetic Labour party activists in east London earlier today.

He said the public would not understand if the government gave up at a time when
it was faced with tackling the recession and cleaning up parliament.

"What would they think of us if ever we walked away from them at a time of need?
We are sticking with them," he said.

"We have a purpose, we have a mission, we have a task ahead. We are going to get
on with that task of building a better Britain."

Falconer's call for a leadership contest was swiftly rejected by the newly
promoted home secretary, Alan Johnson, who is widely regarded as the most likely
successor to Brown if the prime minister is ousted.

"I don't agree that regicide gives you a unified party," he told the Politics
Show. "I think that Gordon Brown is the best man for the job."

Earlier, the business secretary, Lord Mandelson, cast doubt on the ability of
the plotters to put up a credible candidate against Brown.

"It would require somebody to stand against him, somebody who is raising their
standard and saying that they could do a better job ... we don't have that
person," he said.

He told rebels to "stop taking shots" at the prime minister and warned that they
faced the prospect of having to fight an immediate general election if Brown
went.

However, Nick Raynsford, another former minister who has been calling on Brown
to stand down, said the party could not carry on as it was.

The flashpoint could come as soon as tomorrow's weekly meeting of the
parliamentary Labour party at Westminster, when Brown is expected to address his
backbench MPs.

It will be followed almost immediately afterwards by a debate on Labour's
future, addressed by the former Europe minister Caroline Flint - who resigned
from the government on Friday - and the arch-Blairite Stephen Byers.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

EU elections: BNP's Nick Griffin wins seat in European parliament

LENGTH: 763 words

ABSTRACT

Furious scenes at Manchester town hall when Tory MEP describes BNP as
'aberration' and condemns Griffin's success as sad day for British politics

FULL TEXT

Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP, was today elected to the European
parliament.

The far-right leader won a seat in the North West region. Earlier Andrew Brons,
another British National party politician won in the Yorkshire and Humber area.
It is the first time the party has had an MEP elected.

Griffin's victory was only confirmed shortly before 2am after a two-hour
cliffhanger over the last of the North West's eight seats saw the Greens fall
narrowly behind the BNP and Ukip just failed to pull ahead enough to win a third
seat.

There were furious scenes at the declaration when the highest polling candidate,
Sir Robert Atkins, described the BNP as "an aberration" and condemned Griffin's
success as sad day for British politics. He was followed by Labour's Arlene
McCarthy, who came second in votes cast and told the crowd at Manchester town
hall that the BNP was "a party whose members include convicted rapists".

Both won loud applause - but also jeers from BNP supporters in the Banqueting
Hall who shouted "Get back to the trough!" and "It's democracy - you're already
insulting the voters again."

When Griffin's turn came to speak, all the other candidates took the
unprecedented step of walking off the platform in protest. The BNP leader laid
into a "liberal elite which has built a dam, a wall of lies which has grown ever
taller and ever thicker over the years to stop ordinary people protesting about
the removal of their freedom."

He added: "Well tonight that wall has been broken down in the North West and
Yorkshire by hundreds of thousands of voters."

Brons's victory in Yorkshire saw the highest BNP poll, 9.8%, with Griffin
getting 8%. The party polled 8.9% in the North East and 8.6% in both the West
and East Midlands, but the share was not enough to win a place in those regions.

They polled 6.1% in the Eastern region, 5.5% in London, 5.4% in Wales, 4.4% in
the South East and 3.9% in the South West.

Brons took a seat that was previously Labour's second in Yorkshire, as the
expenses debacle and internecine warfare in Labour turned traditional supporters
away in droves. The Labour vote crashed from 45% to 25% in Barnsley, where the
BNP share climbed from 8% to 17%.

Griffin welcomed the victory as a vindication of the party's claim that "we're
here to look after our people because no one else is". He said that feelings
were particularly strong in Yorkshire, where former pit communities felt "at the
bottom of the heap".

Pointing to other big rises in the BNP vote to 15% in Rotherham and nearly 12%
in Doncaster, Griffin said: "This is ordinary decent people in Yorkshire kicking
back against racism, because racism in this country is now directed
overwhelmingly against people who look like me."

Griffin, who had to reach Manchester town hall for his own count in a police van
after anti-fascist demonstrators blocked his convoy and hurled eggs, said
immigration had become harmful to Britain, particularly with the spread of
radical Islam. "Take Bradford - it isn't immigration that's happening there,
it's colonialism," he said.

His own evening was one long lurch between advances and retreats for the BNP as
declarations came in from the North West's 39 counting areas. In a reverse
effect to Yorkshire's, support fell in areas where the party had done well in
the past. In Burnley, where they won one of their first English county council
seats on Thursday, it dropped from 17% to 15%.

But the slump in Labour's vote was common to the North West and Yorkshire,
leaving the battle for the last of the region's eight seats open until the very
end. After the Conservatives had won two, and Labour, Ukip and the Liberal
Democrats one each, the BNP and the Greens were at level pegging for the final
two hours of counting.

Brons said after the Yorkshire count in Leeds: "The onslaught against us has
been more than against any other party in recent times, but somehow we've
overcome it. Despite the lies, despite the money, despite the misrepresentation,
we've been able to win through."

A dapper, besuited figure who adopts the low-key approach encouraged by Griffin,
Brons retired last year as a politics and government teacher at Harrogate
College. He then re-entered active politics for the first time since standing
five times for the National Front in the 1970s after a brief spell as its
leader, which ended in internal quarrels. He joined the British National
Socialist party as a teenager.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

London euro result less dramatic than elsewhere

LENGTH: 315 words

ABSTRACT

Dave Hill: The Euro election outcome in London was less dramatic than elsewhere
in England

FULL TEXT

In terms of seats, there was little change from 2004. The Tories retained their
three, the Lib Dems, Greens and UKIP retained their one each and Labour was
knocked down from three to two. The London region had one fewer seat in total
than last time: eight compared to nine. The various parties' shares of the vote
are a bit more in keeping with the picture across Britain, particularly England,
with Labour's falling significantly and those of some of the smaller parties
rising. But on the whole the results are less dramatic.

The Tory share rose by only 0.6 percent compared with 1.2 percent in Britain as
a whole, while Labour's large fall of 3.5 percent looks quite healthy against
its national plunge of precisely double that figure. The London Lib Dems will be
disappointed that their London share was down by 1.6 percent, which is half a
point more than in the rest of Britain, though I suppose they might have feared
worse given the collapse of their vote in the Mayoral and Assembly elections
last year.

It was a good night for the Greens, who gained 2.5 percent: I heard Darren
Johnson on Five Live last night saying his party had come second in Hackney and
in Lewisham, which is interesting. Mr Brownsuit's boys got 0.9 percent more in
London than in 2004, while UKIP got 1.6 percent less. This compares with
respective rises nationally of 1.4 and 0.5 percent.

Maybe there's been a bit of a swing away from UKIP to the BNP (Tony Travers
remarked, also on Five Live, that this and the reverse often occurs). One
possibly helpful yardstick for assessing the BNP's progress in London is its
share of the vote for Londonwide Assembly seats last year. That was 5.42
percent. In the 2009 Euros it was 4.9 percent. However you read the numbers,
there's little sign of a BNP surge here.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Election results: Gordon Brown braced for leadership challenge as voters desert
Labour

LENGTH: 1231 words

ABSTRACT

[#xfffd] Junior minister Jane Kennedy resigns [#xfffd] Call for secret ballot on
Brown's leadership[#xfffd] Tories surge as BNP wins first Euro seats[#xfffd]
Labour share of vote below 16%

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown faces a make-or-break challenge to his leadership today after
Labour trailed humiliatingly behind Ukip in the European elections and garnered
less than 16% of the vote, its lowest share since the first world war and below
the party's worst expectations.

During a night of unremitting gloom for Downing Street, the Tories pulled more
than 10 points ahead of Labour, with Ukip in second. The BNP also secured its
first significant wins in British politics when its leader, Nick Griffin, became
an MEP in the north-west, and Andrew Brons - a former leader of the National
Front - won in Yorkshire and Humber.

The major parties blamed each other for the drift to the far-right reflected in
results across the country.

Labour's drubbing will lead Brown to offer concessions to his
[#xfffd]backbenchers by promising to delay plans for the part-privatisation of
the Royal Mail, and to bring forward proposals for an inquiry into the basis for
the Iraq war. The prime minister is battling to ensure a backbench rebellion
does not spread to the left of the party, or to MPs in Labour heartlands where
the party fared worst last night.

Labour's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It
was a dismal result, I don't resile from that. We are dismayed by the rejection
that the voters have delivered us."

Asked about the continuing pressure on the prime minister, she said: "Our
reaction will not be to turn in on ourselves. Nobody is better placed to turn
around the economy than Gordon Brown."

Jane Kennedy, the minister of state for the environment, however heaped more
pressure on the prime minister by refusing to sign a pledge of loyalty. She was
sacked as a minister in the reshuffle of junior posts.

"In the end I could have stayed if I had given that pledge of loyalty," Kennedy
told Sky News.

Rebel leaders will meet later today in advance of a pivotal meeting of the
[#xfffd]parliamentary party tonight to analyse the highly varied result and
decide if they have enough support to mount a challenge to Brown.

A leading Labour rebel, Barry Sheerman, said last night he was prepared to meet
the challenge posed by the party's chief whip, Nick Brown, to put up or shut up.

Lord Falconer, the former lord chancellor and close friend of Tony Blair, called
on Brown to go, saying: "I believe if we change leader then we can go into the
next election, whenever it was, so much stronger."

However, Labour insiders believe that the real danger point for Brown may have
passed unless the rebels can garner the necessary 70 signatures to force a
leadership challenge today.

"He will limp on like a wounded elephant," a source said. "The party will not
allow him to take us into the next general election but after last nights
results we can't risk anything that would trigger a general election now."

Results so far show:

[#xfffd] The Labour share of the vote was just 15.3% - down 7% on the equivalent
European elections five years ago. Labour had its worst results since 1918 in
Scotland and Wales. In Cornwall the party came sixth behind the Cornish
Nationalist party. In the south-east and south-west, it came fifth behind the
Greens.

[#xfffd] The [#xfffd]Conservatives came first nationally with a vote of just
under 27%, Ukip was second with a vote of around 18%. Labour came third and the
Liberal Democrats fourth as they did in 2005. Turnout was around 34%.

[#xfffd] The British National party hailed their triumphs in the north-west and
Yorkshire and Humber. Brons said it was the first step for the UK getting
freedom from the EU dictatorship.

[#xfffd] With almost all the results from the across the UK in, the Tories had
won 25 seats, Ukip 13, Labour 13, the Lib Dems 11, and the Greens two.

The shadow chancellor, George Osborne, told Sky News: "We are pretty pleased
with this set of election results. Now we have to go and prove to the British
people that we are worthy of their trust."

He added: "You hear now Labour politicians coming out with this line that 'It
was the expenses scandal wot did for us' but the truth is that, if this election
had been held three or four weeks ago, we know that Labour would have done very
badly because they have completely lost connection with the British people."

Number 10 argued the vote reflected an anti-mainstream politics revolt rather
than a vote against Labour, pointing to the surge for Ukip as opposed to any big
rise for the Conservatives. Labour officials also said that a European election
had limited relevance to a general election held by the first past the post
system in which minor parties would fade.

But Labour MPs will be able to analyse the results on the basis of
[#xfffd]parliamentary constituencies, giving them a projection of whether they
will survive.

Sheerman, the Labour chairman of the schools select committee, and the man who
will  on the leadership, described the results as "ghastly and a disaster".

The rebels want a minimum of 50 MPs to sign up to their cause before they go
public with their names. Some want to appeal to the prime minister to stage a
secret ballot on his leadership as way of establishing whether there is
confidence in him.

In an effort to contain the rebellion, Brown's allies signalled ministers would
admit today that the part-privatisation of the Royal Mail is likely to be
delayed due to the low level of the bids being received for a proposed 30% from
the two main interested companies. Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, is
expected to say he would put the interests of the taxpayer first, and
acknowledge that the depressed market and scale of union opposition was
deterring sufficiently high bids.

The postal services bill should still receive a second reading in the Commons
despite Labour backbench opposition. One minister said: "We have a problem about
the quantity of bids and their value".

Downing Street said Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, has been
instructed by Brown to prepare advice on the scope, timing, membership and
process of the inquiry into the Iraq war, including the degree to which it is
held in public. An announcement was expected "in weeks rather than days".

In two pieces of good news for the prime minister, James Purnell, the man who
sparked a rebellion by quitting the cabinet on Thursday night, will not make a
resignation statement in the Commons.

In the key argument made for shoring up Brown, Mandelson said: "If we were to
have a third leader in a single parliament it would mean an irresistible
argument for an immediate election."

One cabinet member predicted Brown would survive saying it would not be a vote
of confidence in the prime minister, but a vote on no confidence in the
consequences of getting rid of him.

Labour's European meltdown was amplified on a continental scale last night as
the  despite an economic climate from which it should profit. The most
significant outcome was in Germany, the EU's biggest member country, where the
Social Democrats (SPD) came in 17 points behind Chancellor Angela Merkel's
Christian Democrats and their Bavarian CSU ally.

In France, and Italy the centre-right also scored victories while Spain's
socialist government lost to the conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

BNP victory - the chippy party marches on

LENGTH: 1187 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Europe is in a crisis triggered by the excesses of capitalism,
but it is xenophobic nationalism rather than the mainstream left which has
gained ground

FULL TEXT

Shortly before midnight when Andrew Brons, the BNP's Euro-winner in the
Yorkshire and Humber region, opened his mouth to denounce the establishment
parties we were all struck by a paradox. He sounded posh as well as chippy.

Sure enough, he explained he is a teacher and lecturer by trade and apparently
hails from salubrious Harrogate. , Brons, aged 62, has been sniffing around the
Hitler-meets-the-KKK wing of politics since his teens.

So he's old enough and educated enough to know where all this stuff leads: to
the slaughter of the party faithful at Stalingrad and in the Normandy
countryside. They were, however, all in paid jobs at the time.

Brons's party boss, Nick Griffin, also elected on the other side of the
Pennines, doesn't have much excuse either. He may sound more like a white van
driver, but probably had elocution lessons. Privately educated, he read history
and law at Cambridge where he also won a boxing blue.

Griffin also caught the chippy Nazi bug in his teens. These people may rail
against the establishment parties on behalf of the dispossessed white working
class but they are not social group D and E themselves, any more than Sir Oswald
Mosley was - or Harriet Harman is.

Watch out, D and Es - they're after your votes and, if history is any guide,
your lives as well! I suspect voters know this - they get it drummed into them
enough, even by rightwing "newspapers" like the Express.

That may be why Ukip, much more respectable and almost as chippy, came second
last night: on 17.5% (so far) against the Tory 28.3%, Labour's 16%-ish and the
Lib Dems on 14%. Provisional figures show the Greens got 8.8%, the BNP 6.6%.

But if Labour's expenses problem was a major cause of the governing party's woe,
as it insists (that must be half-true, yes?), voting Ukip is a funny way of
showing it since the party has been adept at finding its way to the Strasbourg
ATM since 2004.

The BNP will get a pin number now: that is significant for its funding and
ability to fight domestic elections. No wonder Nick Griffin's 2.14am email to
the fanbase is headlined, "Victory, Victory, Victory", albeit under an appeal
for funds which can be donated by text. Watch out D and Es - they after your
money too. "Texts will cost £3, standard network charges will also apply, ask
billpayer's permission..."

This is an appalling result for Labour, not least since disaffected Labour
voters - those who stayed at home as much as those who put a cross against BNP -
are the chief cause of Nick Griffin's modest success (he actually lost votes in
the north-west).

Using the same kind of rhetoric of struggle against oppression, exclusion and
victimhood, fringe parties of both left and right - and right across Europe -
have targeted voters who have suffered most in the recession and are most
offended by the MPs' expenses scandals because they struggle to pay their bills.

Europe is in crisis, a crisis triggered by excesses of capitalism, yet the
mainstream left does not thrive. Yes, I know some people regard Labour as
centre-right ( a mistake David Cameron will be in a position to rectify quite
soon), but the French, Italian and German centre left also got whacked.
Xenophobic nationalism gained ground. As I have been saying here for months,
it's nationalism, not nationalisation, which we have to fear.

Who can blame Europe's citizens for abstaining - or making a protest vote? Not
me. When I realised on a busy Thursday that I had dashed of to work without
first voting I did not dash home again in time to do my civic duty, the first
such omission of my adult life. Stuff 'em all, I thought.

Shameful, I know. But on TV last night spokesfolk for all the main parties were
careful not to accuse BNP voters of being racist, only the parties themselves.
Griffin denied in when crossing swords with John Humphrys on Radio 4's Today
programme - the battle of the grumpies - but has too much in his record to
wriggle away from it easily. He did make one good joke about PC attitudes at the
BBC - it has a "black Robin Hood" on air.

Will the local and Euro-election results finally push Brown over the cliff -
into resignation, unaided or spurred on by revolt at tonight's weekly meeting of
the parliamentary Labour party?

You know my view. I doubt it. The Gordon Must Go lobby is vocal and gets plenty
of airtime from the media pack - which LOVES the smell of blood, anyone's but
its own. Yet it lacks critical mass, a credible leader (or candidate) and the
balls to go for broke.

The situation is volatile and I could be wrong. Bashing the phone yesterday
raised more practical headaches for the rebels, not least the fact that Ray
Collins, Labour's general secretary, is an old trade union hand who will not
bend the rules (for instance to allow a secret ballot) simply because "some MPs
have gone mad," as one union MP chum puts it.

The Brownites have been quite successful in arguing that a newly elected PM in
July would probably have to go to the polls in October - not sure why, but it's
a good line. Who will blink first? We'll all know later.

Meanwhile, none of the major parties have much to celebrate. The Tories are
boxed in badly on their own pandering Europe-bashing rhetoric, both at home and
among their allies, past and future, in Brussels. Angela Merkel is more powerful
than other EU leaders - she had a good election - as every BNP leader ought to
know (she's a German).

Victory in Wales, fun though that is (a long wait since Lloyd George won it for
the coalition in 1918) is scant consolation. The Lib Dems have been pushed into
fourth place, though assorted nationalists - especially Alex Salmond in Scotland
- have done well too.

Is it fair to put the SNP's victory into the xenophobic, nationalist swing
evident across much of the EU 27? Probably not, though there is rhetorical
Pom-bashing evidence to support it. Pandering to chippy and frightened voters in
the depth of a scary recession is always a temptation. It need not lead to bad
government.

In Cornwall, where no Mebyon Kernow flags - the black and white saltaire - were
evident in my childhood (plenty now), the county's nats beat Labour in the
Euro-vote.

The Lib-Dem dominated county has just been reorganised into a single unitary
authority and when I was there at Easter a lot of people didn't like it.
Hostility to Europe overfishing and farming policies is also strong.

Is there a bright note on which to end? Of course. "Billy Elliott," the
feel-good musical about a Durham miner's son who wants to be a ballet dancer
(it's Scargill strike time in the 80s), cleaned up in the Tony awards on
Broadway last night.

The kind of people who populate the story - miners and their families - may have
voted Labour, abstained, voted for Arthur Scargill's Socialist party (it did
very poorly), or for the BNP. But its upbeat message is that hope and education
are the best boxes to tick. No wonder John Prescott saw the movie five times.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

SNP predicts demise of Alistair Darling after emphatic victory in Scotland

LENGTH: 717 words

ABSTRACT

Labour suffers lowest vote in Scotland since before first world war and only
comes third in area represented by the chancellor

FULL TEXT

The Scottish National party leader, Alex Salmond, has claimed that Alistair
Darling faces losing his Westminster seat after the nationalists won an emphatic
victory over Labour in the European elections.

The official result for Scotland's six European parliament seats was declared
shortly after 10am today, confirming that the SNP had won 29.1% of the popular
vote, leaving Labour trailing nearly 10 points behind at 20.8%.

The last council to declare was the Western Isles - the strictly Sabbatarian
islands where votes are not counted on Sundays on religious grounds. The SNP won
there by its largest margin over Labour, giving it victory in 22 out of
Scotland's 32 council areas.

Labour's humiliating result - its lowest vote in Scotland since before the first
world war - was compounded by a voter backlash in several key seats and a high
level of abstentions by Labour supporters.

In the chancellor's seat of Edinburgh South West, voters left Labour trailing in
third place behind the SNP and the Tories. In East Renfrewshire, the SNP and
Tories claimed that Scottish secretary Jim Murphy faced losing his seat after
the Tories won with an eight-point margin over Labour.

However, the Scottish Tories fared poorly overall: compared with a clear victory
for David Cameron's party in England and Wales on 28.6%, the Tories polled just
16.8% in Scotland. As consolation, their share of the votes increased in several
key constituencies.

In the overall Scotland vote, the SNP won two seats, Labour two, the Tories won
one seat, while the Liberal Democrats very narrowly took a single seat with just
11.5%. The winners were Ian Hudghton, SNP, David Martin, Labour, Struan
Stevenson, Conservative, Alyn Smith, SNP, George Lyon, Lib Dem and Catherine
Stihler, Labour.

Salmond basked in the "fantastic" result, pointing out it was Labour's lowest
share of the vote in Scotland since before the first world war and the emergence
of the modern Labour Party.

"And it is an extremely poor result for both the Tories and the Lib Dems who,
along with Labour, have gone into reverse from the last European election," he
said. "The SNP have won all over Scotland - north, south, east and west."

Labour insisted the party was solely a victim of a voter backlash over the
Westminster expenses scandal, party infighting and the economy. It said its
voters stayed at home rather than supporting other parties.

Labour pointed to the low turnout in Scotland. Despite signals last night that
turnout would be higher this year than 2004's 30.9%, it in fact fell to 28.6% in
the final count compared with about 35% UK-wide.

In key Labour areas such as Glasgow, where it won by less than three points over
the SNP, the turnout was far lower than the Scottish average at 23.9%,
confirming fears among cabinet ministers that supporters would punish Labour.

That would never be reflected in a general election, said Iain Gray, the
Scottish Labour leader. Labour was being punished because it was the party in
power. "These are disappointing results for Labour but we have learned lessons
from the Euro campaign. The public have been deeply disillusioned by the
expenses scandal and Labour, as the government, has taken the main hit," he
said.

Jim Sheridan, the Labour MP for Paisley and Renfrewshire North, told BBC Radio
Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme: "It shows a clear message from the
general public that Labour has to get its act together.

"It has to get the economy working, get people back to work and listen to what
the genuine concerns of people are.

"But, to get things into perspective, there was a very, very low turnout. That
will not be the case in the general election. I think our people will come out
in the general election."

Labour only managed to win the popular vote in three council areas, equalling
the Lib Dems, leaving Labour waiting for the sixth and last MEP's place.

The smaller parties which saw victory elsewhere in the UK had very modest
support in Scotland. Ukip took just 5.2% of the vote, while the BNP won just
2.5%. The Scottish Green party, however, was buoyed after it enjoyed the largest
poll of the minority parties, taking 7.3% of the popular vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

A right romp

LENGTH: 688 words

ABSTRACT

Lewis Baston on the winners and loses in the European elections

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown surveys a landscape of ruins this morning. Labour's 15% of the vote
in the European elections is absolutely abysmal, the worst ever for the party by
a considerable margin. The ignominious details pile up - behind the
Conservatives in Wales, far behind the SNP in Scotland, fifth and without enough
votes to qualify for a seat in south-west England.

It is a disaster without recent precedent or parallel. At least in the 1931
general election there was still a solid 30% working class vote for Labour. One
might have to look back to 1924 and the end of the Liberals as a party of
government. It might have been even worse, had voters in urban areas without
county elections not turned out in unexpected strength - hence the smaller slide
in the Labour vote in London and the strange bright spot of Leicester. Many of
these determined voters were hoping to stop the BNP.

Much has and will be written, a lot of it valid, about how mainstream politics
has created the conditions of alienation and anger that led to the BNP vote -
and the parties will try to bid for support by "understanding" the feelings of
those voters. Less will probably be written on the need, to quote John Major, to
"condemn a little more, understand a little less". With the array of protest
parties contesting the elections, nobody can claim not to have had enough choice
of political spittoons to expectorate into, but a large number of people chose
that particular one. Before the election, there was some hope that the BNP's
reputation for racism and thuggery would cause voters to think twice about
supporting them, no matter how cross they were with the Westminster parties. But
while some BNP voters may not themselves be racist, indulging a temper tantrum
with the system was more important to them than the rights and dignity of their
fellow citizens from ethnic minorities.

The Green party has reason to be disappointed with the election. It was
untainted by any expenses problems and has a programme of political reforms, so
it could have hoped for more than to displace Labour as the fourth party in
southern England. But the politics of recession tends to be difficult for
Greens, who find that voters anxious about their jobs are less concerned about
the long term.

The Liberal Democrats also fared indifferently. Euro elections are always
difficult for them because their pro-EU stand is unfashionable and their
campaigning techniques centre around candidates' personalities. The protest vote
headed instead towards the right, with Ukip polling at levels that seemed
inconceivable a few months ago. It is ironic indeed that the expenses saga seems
to have driven people towards a party whose MEP group elected in 2004 contained
a benefit fraudster and another currently under investigation for expenses
fraud. A deeper irony is that Ukip fetishises precisely the Westminster
parliament that people are supposedly disgusted by and want to reform.

The Conservatives did well in the circumstances, considering their own deep
involvement in the Westminster expenses scandal and their own spot of bother in
the European arliament that led to one MEP being expelled from the group and
their then-leader Giles Chichester stepping down over a "whoops-a-daisy" breach
of the rules over his own expenses. Chichester returned to Brussels and
Strasbourg in triumph at the head of the south-west Conservative list that won
half the region's seats.

With the exception perhaps of those in Scotland, the European elections saw the
British voter in a sour and unpleasant mood, vulnerable to the blandishments of
an assortment of rightwing populists. Other countries have had elections a bit
like this where the normal rules do not apply, as with the rise of Jean-Marie Le
Pen's National Front in 1980s France, or the Lega Nord in 1990s Italy, or the
Pim Fortuyn election in the Netherlands in 2002. Sometimes these episodes prove
short lived. Let us hope that when the 2014 European elections begin, we look at
the 2009 results and wonder: "What on earth were people thinking?"

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Junior minister Jane Kennedy quits over No 10 'bullying' tactics

LENGTH: 333 words

ABSTRACT

Liverpool Wavertree MP said she was unhappy with smears against Labour's own
ministers emanating from Downing Street

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown suffered yet another female resignation today when Jane Kennedy,
the environment minister, refused to pledge her loyalty to the prime minister
and later called on him to stand down.

The Liverpool Wavertree MP said she was unhappy with smears against Labour's own
ministers emanating from 10 Downing Street, which she compared to the "bullying"
of Labour activists by Militant on Merseyside in the 1980s.

She said she told him in a "frank and honest" phonecall this morning that "I
could not offer him the support he was asking for".

But Brown's spokesman flatly denied he had asked her, or any other minister, for
a loyalty pledge as another day of Whitehall drama unfolded.

Kennedy made clear that the prime minister did not directly ask her for a pledge
of loyalty and the decision to go was her own.

But she said it was made clear that she was expected to give assurances about
her loyalty and told Sky News: "I wasn't able to give that assurance and so I
have not been reappointed. That's the fact of what happened.

"I wasn't able to give that assurance because I have been unhappy for some time
about smears against colleagues, about undermining of colleagues and friends by
Number 10."

Asked whether that behaviour was from Brown himself or those around him, she
said: "I can't distinguish between the two and in my view it's how politics is
driven forward by Gordon and the people around him.

"It really gets me very angry when I see that type of behaviour."

The reshuffle of ministers of state is expected to be completed within the next
few hours, with other ranks announced before Brown faces a showdown meeting of
his beleaguered parliamentary party at the Commons tonight.

Labour MPs are reeling from their worst electoral showing for nearly 100 years
after finishing third in vote share behind the Tories and Ukip in elections to
the European parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Lib Dems rue 'missed opportunity' in European elections

LENGTH: 405 words

ABSTRACT

Nick Clegg acknowledges his party's flat campaign as the Liberal Democrats
finish fourth with 13.9% of the vote

FULL TEXT

Questions are being raised of the Liberal Democrat's campaign in the European
elections after the party slipped to fourth place in the poll.

The Lib Dems secured only a 13.9% share, down 1.1% on five years ago, but it was
allocated 10 seats - a gain of one. The party did better in the local elections
with 28% of the vote, but in that poll it lost seats overall.

Matthew Taylor, a former Treasury spokesman and MP for Truro and St Austell,
said: "There was a missed opportunity here.If we had secured a few more
percentage points we could have achieved something dramatic. Bluntly it may have
saved Gordon Brown. If Labour had been fourth he might have gone."

The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, did his best to hide his disappointment but he
admitted the party struggled to get its message across. "One always wants to do
better," he told the BBC. "I acknowledge that it [the Lib Dems' message on
Europe] was not able to be communicated very strongly in this election because
it was obscured by the MPs' expenses scandal."

Last week Clegg faced Labour jeers at prime minister's questions when he said
the only realistic choice facing the electorate was between the Tories and the
Liberal Democrats.

The party was hoping to secure third or even second place in the European poll,
energy spokesman Simon Hughes said yesterday . But it was squeezed out by the
surge in votes for Ukip and support for other minor parties.

"Our share of the vote dropped fractionally but it more or less held its own and
we are within a hair's breadth of Labour's share of the vote," Clegg said.

"If you take the elections together I think the indications are that we are
gaining votes at the expense of Labour. It was a solid result in the European
elections and a strong performance in the local elections."

The Lib Dem blogger Stephen Tall said: "The Lib Dem result is, without doubt, a
. Only a few weeks ago, Nick Clegg was talking up our chances of finishing
second, pushing Labour into third. The reality is Labour has pipped us into
fourth place, exactly where we were last time. More depressingly, our vote share
is down from 15% to just under 14%."

Another party blogger, Wayne Lawrence, wrote: "What Lib Dems stand for has
become a confused issue and there is ."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Election results: Tories celebrate winning in Wales after Labour's 'night of
shame'

LENGTH: 463 words

ABSTRACT

David Cameron says the Conservatives' Welsh victory - its first in 90 years -
proves his party can win anywhere

FULL TEXT

Long-time supporters accused Labour today of taking them for granted as the
party was beaten into second place in a national poll in Wales for the first
time since 1918.

People who have always voted Labour said they had stayed at home because they
were angry at MP's expenses, were despairing of the parlous state of the
leadership and the economy or simply felt that politicians had not bothered to
take much interest in what for almost a century has been a heartland.

Even party activists said they felt a lack of direction from the hierarchy both
in Cardiff and in London. "It felt a little like they had just given up," said
one. The South Wales Echo dubbed it Labour's "night of shame".

The disastrous second place cost Labour an MEP and leaves it, the Conservatives,
Plaid Cymru and the UK Independence party with one Welsh seat each in the
European parliament. David Cameron, the Tory leader, hot-footed it to Cardiff
today to meet party workers at the Welsh assembly, where he said the result
proved the Conservatives could win anywhere. "Not since the time of Lloyd George
has a party other than Labour won in Wales," Cameron said.

He was delighted that the Tories had come first in 17 Welsh parliamentary
constituencies, including Labour-held seats like Wrexham. "There will be a great
toppling of Labour MPs if these results are copied at a general election," he
said.

In the country of Aneurin Bevan, the founder of the NHS, Cameron attempted to
allay fears that public services would be cut under the Tories. "We have to say
to people that we are the party of public services, good public services,
especially the National Health Service, for everyone," he said.

Peter Hain, the Welsh secretary and Neath MP, accepted the poll was
"disastrous".

"It was a very clear statement about what happens when Labour voters stay at
home or they plump for someone else," he said. "They get the Tories. Tories who
wreaked havoc in Wales in 18 miserable years, mines closing, industry closing,
mass unemployment, youngsters going on to drugs in despair because they couldn't
get jobs and now David Cameron is promising exactly the same recipe of
multi-billion pound cuts."

The turnout of 30.4% was down by 11% on the previous European elections in 2004.
In Cardiff city centre, long-time Labour voters said the party had a lot of work
to do if it wanted them to get out and support it at the general election.

"I've voted Labour all my life and my dad did before me and his dad too," ,"
said works store manager Steve Jones, 44. "I didn't bother voting this time and
the way I feel now I won't next time either. I feel they've betrayed us. They
just don't care."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Wales's historic Tory takeover

LENGTH: 430 words

ABSTRACT

Tomos Livingstone: Labour's collape in Wales indicates a wider pattern of
decline and disgust - giving Conservatives plenty to celebrate

FULL TEXT

Wales's newest elected Conservative, , celebrates her birthday today, and there
can't be many better gifts than seeing your party top the poll in Wales for the
first time since the mid-19th century.

Yes, you read that right. The Conservatives finished first in Wales, with
145,193 votes to Labour's 138,852. Plaid Cymru were third on 126,702 and Ukip
got 87,585. Each of the four parties got one MEP each.

Records are tumbling everywhere; Labour haven't failed to come first in Wales
since 1918, and that was when Lloyd George and the Liberal party, not the
Conservatives, ruled the roost. The Tories haven't been top since. Drill down
into the figures and the story is clear - the Conservative vote is up a little
(as a share of the total), but Labour's has collapsed completely. In some places
(the M4 corridor, north-east Wales) there is a switch to the Conservatives, in
others (the south Wales valleys) Labour supporters have simply stayed at home in
irritation or disgust. And in west Wales, a pattern of decline has simply become
more pronounced.

Labour has been mauled before in Wales and bounced back. It lost assembly seats
and councils to , but regained them next time around. This time the shock is
sharper, the defeat bigger and the task of recovery much harder.

The Welsh party has been worried for a while. , re-appointed as secretary of
state for Wales only last week, is looking at a party is in its weakest state
for decades. Activists, cash and organisation are thin on the ground.

The writing was on the wall in the 2007 assembly election, where a half-decent
headline result (26 seats out of 60) masked a drop in support. Things were worse
in last year's council poll, with Labour left in control of only two of Wales'
22 local authorities. Senior figures, Hain included, have suggested changes of
direction - concentrate more on the aspirational middle class; appeal afresh to
the Welsh-speaking west and north; reconnect with the valleys. None of it
appears to be doing any good.

Meanwhile the Conservatives can celebrate - the Euro results, on a low turnout,
suggest they would win 17 Welsh seats at a general election, although not even
David Cameron thinks that's really going to happen. Wales also gets its
first-ever Ukip MEP, and the chance to mull another mystery: why are the
successors to Lloyd George, the Liberal Democrats, trailing so far behind in
fifth place?

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Secret ballot of 350 Labour MPs may determine Gordon Brown's future

LENGTH: 555 words

ABSTRACT

Labour high command to meet as PLP chair is expected to consent to ballot
request on whether Brown continues as leader

FULL TEXT

Labour's parliamentary high command faces a test of loyalty this evening after
receiving a formal request to allow the 350 Labour MPs a secret ballot on
whether Gordon Brown should be able to continue as party leader.

Barry Sheerman, the chairman of the schools select committee, has demanded a
ballot to establish the level of Brown's support. The request has been formally
submitted to the chair of the parliamentary Labour party (PLP), Tony Lloyd, this
afternoon and it is expected Lloyd will consent. Lloyd says publicly the prime
minister retains his support.

The critical meeting comes as the party absorbs the scale of the defeat in
European elections in which its support fell to just 15.8% behind the
Conservatives and Ukip. This morning a junior minister, Jane Kennedy, joined the
ranks of rebels by warning that Brown's determination to cling to power could
destroy the Labour party.

MPs are desperate to demonstrate unhappiness with Brown's leadership but are
reporting to the Guardian a hefty government whipping operation which has been
at full throttle since the weekend in an attempt to public displays of loyalty
to the prime minister.

Whips are dissuading wavering MPs with job offers and threats of no support for
future campaigning. It is thought the announcement on junior appointments to the
government has been postponed until after this evening's PLP meeting.

Alongside Sheerman's making formal a request for a secret ballot, work continued
throughout Monday to secure signatories to a list of MPs calling for Brown to
go. If the rebels do not secure about 50 the list will never be made public.

One rebel said the mood in the tea rooms was "despondent" and all contacted by
the Guardian were unsure how events would play out.

However, rebels reported individuals who had previously been against the drive
to remove the prime minister but had been persuaded otherwise by the party's
performance in the local and European elections.

Sheerman proposed a secret ballot when he first came out against the prime
minister last Thursday, but has waited until today to formally request it after
gauging support from colleagues.

His suggestion is not fail-safe. Now he has given notification that he would
like the party to be able to decide whether it would like a secret ballot, the
matter will then be put to a public vote of the PLP at next Monday's meeting. If
a majority then vote in favour, the whips would have to insert it into the
agenda for government business. Sheerman knows that a public vote in order to
trigger a secret ballot may see the idea fall at the first hurdle. The some 127
MPs on the government payroll would be expected to vote against a secret ballot,
as would some 50 Brown loyalists backbenchers making it difficult for
backbenchers to get over half the 350 parliamentary party on side.

For the matter to be voted on this evening Sheerman would have had to have
requested the motion by last Thursday at the latest. At that point, Sheerman had
not gone public with his views on Brown.

Over the weekend rebels said they would call off hostilities if the party was
allowed a secret ballot and Brown was demonstrated to enjoy the majority of
support across the party.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Ten lessons for the left from Europe

LENGTH: 1014 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: Developments such as a rise in racism, the collapse of faith in
the left and the recession have changed the political landscape

FULL TEXT

What should we make of the ? The main story clearly is the collapse of Labour's
vote but that was a disaster foretold. As each successive year of Labour in
power has passed the party has done worse and worse in local, European and other
elections.

But unlike the local and parliamentary elections in Britain where the norms of
first-past-the-post voting dominate, leaving politics under the tutelage of the
main parties with occasional eruptions by the SNP in Scotland or the BNP in some
English municipal election, the European parliament vote reveals a rich
landscape of voting behaviour and the chance for other parties to strut their
stuff. In the European parliament election there is really only one central
question - the EU itself.

The democratic left suffered serious defeats across Europe in the 2009
elections. The observations below are meant as short notes on aspects of what I
learned campaigning both in my South Yorkshire constituency and in other parts
of Europe. They are tentative and I hope those responding to them could leave to
one side the abuse that any article by a politician provokes and instead help in
saying which points are pertinent and which are irrelevant to the next stage of
debate about what the democratic left does if we are to slow down and reverse
the new hegemony of the centre and further right in Europe.

1. The European parliament is unloved. It might be better to link the election
of some of its members to national parliament elections so that MEPs more
accurately reflect the views of voters. National parliaments also need to become
associated with European parliamentary work - perhaps by creating a second
chamber formed from national MPs.

2. The voting turnout in Britain is lamentable.  went down in numbers but
because of the low turnout they could win seats thanks to a PR voting system. In
2004 turnout was much higher in regions which used all postal ballots. To be
sure, there were some irregularities, but the scores of thousands of people who
were empowered to vote were not all fraudsters.

3. Racism and xenophobia are now part and parcel of European elections. Nicolas
Sarkozy and Angela Merkel made their views against the accession of Turkey, a
majority Muslim nation, the archstone of their campaign. The manifesto of the
centre-right  explicitly referred to Europe as a Judeo-Christian concept. No
room for Muslims then.

The Federation of Poles of Great Britain  from the Daily Mail which in their
judgment amounted to anti-Polish xenophobia. This helps create the swamp the BNP
grows in. The more Poles, Slovaks and other foreigners are presented by the
right as a problem, the more the BNP and Ukip vote grows.

4. The BNP needs to be exposed.  on the racial abuse conviction of Andrew Brons,
the new Yorkshire BNP MEP. But there was no national publicity.  continually
briefed that the BNP had no real support and Labour's campaign excluded any
direct attacks on the BNP. Even this morning the Today programme failed to
mention the BNP's antisemitism. Brons is a Strasserite - obsessed with Nazi
ideology. Griffin's record of Jew-hatred and racism makes clear his fascism. We
need a cordon sanitaire around these people who now have access to the European
parliament's funds which  has given him £2m plus as an MEP. Equally, Labour must
now speed up a social housing programme, support workers in the steel and other
industries on a par with help given to banks, and bring in ID cards so we know
who has a right to be in Britain and who has not.

5. The recession is not helping the left. Voters are scared, unsure about their
jobs, earnings, savings, homes or children's future. The left's rhetoric and
denunciation of open trade economics sounds tough in meetings and feels good in
a column. But the left does well when there is growth, businesses are being
created, which in turn create jobs, and citizens have money left to spend
themselves rather than see it being transferred to state bureaucracies. The
European right - both mainstream and extreme - are the winners in this election
as voters become defensive and see no clear options from the democratic left.

6. In many ex-communist nations of east, central and Black Sea Europe, the
re-branded communist parties eagerly accepted as born-again social democratic
parties are now collapsing. Whole regions of Europe no longer have adequate
democratic left party structures and presence.

7. In Britain, the Scottish question will soon become acute. While England and
Wales vote Tory, Scotland responds to the European question by becoming more and
more nationalist. Labour needs to produce a policy for England before it is too
late.

8. Supporters of proportional representation have to work out whether giving the
BNP keys to the Commons, along with other single issue groups like Ukip, is
worth the price of moving to Nick Clegg's idea of PR. There are other forms of
electoral-constitutional reform which may be worth implementing in place of the
traditional PR demand, which would consolidate parliamentary facism on the basis
of yesterday's result.

9. Labour has to take deep breaths and reduce its fever. A leadership putsch now
followed by an unavoidable election, however much demanded by Daniel Hannan,
Farage, and assorted rightwing columnists, would undermine the progressive cause
in Britain for generations.

10. David Cameron was rejected by more than seven out of 10 voters yesterday. He
now has to put in place his isolationist EU politics by breaking links with
mainstream centre-right parties and creating an alliance with homophobic Polish
rightists or a Czech party which has just lost power and whose leader thinks
global warming is a myth. Labour and Lib Dems have to expose Tory isolationism
as dangerous to British national interests.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Bucharest Notebook

BYLINE: Mary Dejevsky

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 454 words


This is the place for Euro passion

BY THE time you read this, most results of the EU Parliamentary elections will
be known. But I have to say that it was a pleasure to find the Romanian capital
festooned in Euro-election posters - after London, where the only EU election
advertising seemed to promote the anti-European Ukip.

Not only was there an admirable display of political pluralism in Bucharest,
where the two parties in the coalition government were competing for Euro-votes,
and the President's rather spectacular-looking model daughter, Elena Basescu
(below) stood as an independent, but there were real, live Euro issues being
fought over, as they related to Romania.

One of the hottest of these centred on what could be done for compatriots
working elsewhere in the EU. A large number of Romanians who went to work in
Spain and Italy now find themselves unemployed and without access to benefits.
In Britain, Romanians and Bulgarians, unlike earlier arrivals in the EU, do not
enjoy an automatic right to work. Romania's politicians saw in these
inequalities fertile ground for campaigning. Is there something here that
British politicians could learn from when the next Euro elections come up in
four years' time?

You just can't miss it

I WAS in Bucharest for a conference that was held at the Palace of Parliament, a
stately name betraying nothing of the building's controversial past. The last
time I was in Romania all the talk had been of opposition - an almost unheard-of
concept at the time - to the plan of the then leader, Nicolae Ceausescu, for a
vast architectural complex.

Before setting off from London, I asked friends how to find the site. Don't
worry, they said. How right they were. I had scarcely stepped out of my hotel
before a vast, flat brown wasteland opened before me. More than 20 years on, the
vast palace is built, with a Champs Elysees-style avenue, just as Ceausescu had
planned. By day, it is a domineering presence; at night, lit up, a potentate's
ethereal castle.

After the execution of the Ceausescus, many wanted to bulldoze the lot. Instead,
it was designated guardian of Romania's new democracy. Almost 20 years on, that
is still an uncomfortable cohabitation.

Gentlemen, this is a queue

AN ABIDING memory of Bucharest in those years was the courtesy of its
inhabitants. Quite unlike anywhere else in the macho Balkans, Romanian men
rushed to assist any damsel, of any age, whether or not in distress. Remarkably,
this courtesy coexisted with a degree of persecution, often highly personalised,
as cruel as anything the communist world produced. The courtesy, I'm delighted
to report, remains, but with a malign twist. I experienced no queue that was not
jumped by a male of the species.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

A tormented Prime Minister suffers another hail of arrows;
LEADING ARTICLE Disastrous election results weaken the Prime Minister still
further

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 827 words


Another day, another crisis in the prolonged torment of this most beleaguered
Prime Minister. Last night Gordon Brown had to watch as Labour recorded one of
the sharpest falls in its vote ever, on a good night for the Conservatives and
an even better night for alternative parties such as Ukip. Labour candidates
found themselves relegated in some places to fourth or fifth, the collapse
handing the loathsome BNP its first seat. Almost anyone but Labour was the
leitmotif of the European elections in Britain.

Can any recent tenant of No 10 have been so embattled, so embarrassingly -
almost pitiably - weak, and still be hanging on? Even John Major at his lowest
point was not subject to as much public humiliation as Gordon Brown. Yet Mr
Brown, St Sebastian-like, stands tied to his post, suffering the unending hail
of arrows.

What other prime minister has been booed by British veterans of D-Day, on the
beaches of Normandy to boot? What other prime minister has had to accept the
resignations of half a dozen ministers, plus very public expressions of no
confidence? And what other prime minister has had to contend with a forthright
call from a former Lord Chancellor for a change of leader?

Across Europe, the far right did well, but in many places not as well as feared.
The early results in the Netherlands, where the xenophobic right came second to
the governing Christian Democrats were an indicator, but not a template for the
rest of Europe. Centre-right governing parties in France, Germany, Italy and
Poland saw their positions strengthened. The anti-incumbency vote that had been
anticipated did not materialise. Heading the governing party therefore offers
Gordon Brown no excuse for Labour's losses in Britain, although centre-left
parties generally did poorly. But the good news for David Cameron was not
unalloyed. His party did well, but his decision to take the Conservative MEPs
out of the mainstream centre-right grouping, the EPP, now looks even more badly
judged than it did before. Instead of being part of a stronger centre-right
bloc, his MEPs will find themselves even more out on a limb than it initially
seemed they would.

But the main trend emerging last night was the dreadful tally for Labour and the
Prime Minister, Gordon Brown. His response at every stage so far has been to
absorb the blows and hold firm - doggedly, almost frighteningly so. But how long
will he be able to hold out?

When he boasted of his resilience after the local election results on Friday, he
was not wrong. That same resilience took him to London's East End yesterday, for
a hastily arranged "public" meeting. You could see the logic: anything for
television pictures showing a leader less isolated and more upbeat than the sad,
lonely figure at Arromanches. The Newham meeting was the closest Mr Brown has
come to emulating his predecessor's masochism strategy, except that the audience
was largely supportive. It was not the friendly questions, but the platform
party that told the tale.

The Prime Minister was accompanied by perhaps his two least favourite people -
bar his newly declared ex-ministerial adversaries. There was Lord Mandelson,
fielding the contributions he deemed to require his expert touch. And there was
Harriet Harman, very sensibly attired, demonstrating that Gordon knows how to
treat women as grown-up colleagues. Labour's leadership, the message ran, and
Gordon's premiership, were united and not to be dislodged.

It has, of course, come to a pretty pass when such last-minute Sunday afternoon
meetings are thought necessary. And it could only be a scene-setter for Mr
Brown's confrontation today with his parliamentary party. Of all the critical
encounters he has endured, this could be the one to make or break his
leadership.

These elections were the first time Mr Brown, if only vicariously, submitted
himself to the will of the people. The results were little short of devastating.
It is true that Gordon Brown has been unlucky as well as inept. He won the prize
he had coveted so long just as the economy was about to turn. Financial services
- the very sector he had championed as Chancellor - were in the vanguard of the
recession. When financial meltdown ceded the headlines, it was to a scandal -
MPs' expenses - that was still more lethal for the government of the day. For
weeks now, though, the business of government has been paralysed. Rather than
focusing on measures to restore the national finances and the dignity of
Parliament, ministers have been preoccupied with their own survival.

The reshuffle, in which Mr Brown could only neutralise potential enemies, showed
how far his authority had seeped away. If there is to be a rebellion, its
leaders should show their colours and let the fight begin. If not, Mr Brown must
be left to consider the verdict of the electorate, while getting on with his
job. There is urgent work to be done, and if the rebels are too divided to oust
him, he must be allowed to do it.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

A disaster for Labour, but hardly a Tory triumph;
Comment

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


Expectations are crucial in politics. By last night, Labour had persuaded the
media to expect "heavy losses" in the European elections, and that the party
could come fourth - even though not a single opinion poll had ever put the party
lower than third. The aim was clear: ensure that anything other than a
calamitous performance could be represented as evidence that things were not so
bad.

However, calamity was not avoided. Labour was struggling to avoid the ignominy
of coming third for the first time in a nationwide vote since 1922. Its share of
the vote was easily it lowest-ever score in a nationwide vote since it first
started fighting elections as an independent party in 1918. It only managed to
top the poll in the deepest of deepest heartland, the North East of England.

True, most parties of government around Europe lost ground. But the drop in
Labour's share of the vote as compared with the last general election looks set
to be the one of the biggest suffered by any EU governing party. Labour cannot
dismiss its reverse as a normal mid-term protest from which it can recover.

Yet for all Labour's difficulties it was far from a night of triumph for David
Cameron. The Tory vote was no higher than in 2004, and well down on the 36 per
cent William Hague managed in 1999. Hardly a performance to show that the
Conservatives are on course for power.

Despite the strongly Eurosceptic tone adopted by David Cameron, voting for the
anti-EU Ukip simply proved too tempting a prospect for many voters who might
otherwise have voted Tory. Even though this time Ukip did not enjoy the
publicity generated by Robert Kilroy-Silk, overall the party still managed to
make advances on its 2004 vote.

But UKIP were not the only party to advance. The BNP secured the modest increase
in its support it needed in the North of England - the heart of its main
strength in recent years - to secure representation in Strasbourg for the first
time. This was the one development that none of the other parties wanted.
Equally the Greens made a modest advance, but not enough to yield much in the
way of extra seats.

Collective support for non-Westminster parties increased beyond the already
remarkable one-third recorded in 2004 to no less than two-fifths. The grip of
the Westminster parties on the British public has evidently been loosened
further by the expenses scandal.

On the other hand, there was little sign of the mass abstention many had
anticipated. While turnout fell heavily in places where all-postal ballots were
held in 2004 but not this year, elsewhere support fell on average by only a
point or so. The parties may not like the voters' verdict, but at least they got
one.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Humiliation in the heartlands for Labour and its embattled leader

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1335 words


The pressure on Gordon Brown to stand down intensified last night as the Labour
vote went into meltdown in the European elections.

Labour won the lowest share of the vote in a nationwide election in its history,
as support in its traditional heartlands collapsed following the scandal over
MPs' expenses. In Yorkshire and the Humber, it suffered the humiliation of
losing a seat to the far-right British National Party, which won its first seat
in a nationwide election.

In Wales, Labour failed to top the poll for the first time since 1918; the
Tories came first and Ukip gained a seat from Labour. In the North East,
Labour's share of the vote dropped from 34 to 25 per cent. In Scotland, Labour
was pushed into second place by the Scottish National Party.

The Labour vote appeared to free fall in the South East and South West, where in
some areas the party plummeted to fifth. In London, Labour's vote dropped by
four percentage points.

Labour officials admitted the party could finish third nationwide behind Ukip
and the Tories. Labour was on course to win about 16 per cent of the vote, the
lowest since it began fighting elections as an independent party in 1918.

A BBC projection early today forecast that the Tories would win 27 per cent of
votes, Ukip 17 per cent, Labour 16 per cent, the Liberal Democrats 14 per cent,
the Greens 9 per cent and the BNP 6 per cent. Labour's crushing defeat could
prove a tipping point for many Labour MPs as they gather in Westminster today to
decide Mr Brown's fate.

Many will calculate that they would lose their seats if last night's results
were repeated at the general election. They left the Prime Minister on a knife
edge as he prepares for a showdown at a critical meeting of the Parliamentary
Labour Party.

Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, admitted the results were "very dismal"
but insisted they were not Mr Brown's fault. "Our supporters are absolutely
furious with us about expenses," she said. "They expect us to have higher
standards than the Tories."

Nick Brown, the Government's chief whip, challenged rebel MPs to put up or shut
up: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if they've got
sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference. If they can't
do that, they should get behind the leadership that the overwhelming majority of
party members support."

Mr Brown is preparing key concessions to Labour MPs in an attempt to hang on to
his job. The Independent has learnt that controversial plans to part-privatise
the Royal Mail may be shelved on commercial grounds.

Although the Government would remain committed to selling a 30 per cent stake,
it may delay the move to maximise the likely return for the taxpayer. Ministers
believe more bidders would emerge when the recession is over. So far, only one
firm offer has been tabled, by the private equity group CVC.

The delay would be welcomed by many Labour MPs, 149 of whom have signed a
Commons motion opposing the sell-off. And within days, Mr Brown will announce a
formal inquiry into the Iraq war and its aftermath, a move that would be
welcomed by Labour critics of the 2003 invasion.

He has asked Sir Gus O'Donnell, the Cabinet Secretary, to advise him on the
scope and timing of an investigation and the possible membership of the inquiry
team. Aides said the Prime Minister had always favoured the move but wanted to
wait until the bulk of British troops had withdrawn from Iraq.

Despite the planned concessions, rebel Labour MPs warned they would step up
their campaign to unseat Mr Brown. The Prime Minister will try to rally support
at the make-or-break meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party (PLP) tonight.

Although the new-look Cabinet remained firm in its support of Mr Brown
yesterday, his critics hope a backbench rebellion - "the peasants' revolt" -
could persuade senior ministers he must go. "If 100 MPs say it's all over, he
will have lost the confidence of the PLP," one former Cabinet minister said last
night.

But Lord Mandelson, the Business Secretary and unofficial deputy prime minister,
played down the impact of the hammering for Labour. He told the plotters they
could not blame the results on Mr Brown, saying the attacks on his leadership
and the MPs' expenses affair were responsible. He told The Independent: "People
cannot spend days destabilising the Government and criticising the Prime
Minister and then demand good results."

A Labour spokeswoman insisted the party's performance could not be translated
into a general election result: "People are angry about expenses and as the
party of government we have borne the brunt of that."

Yesterday Mr Brown admitted he faced "testing times" but said Labour could not
turn in on itself and away from the serious challenges facing the nation. He was
given a show of loyalty by Labour activists in East London after warning that
the public would not understand if the Government gave up at a time when it
faced the problems of tackling the recession and cleaning up Parliament. "What
would they think of us if ever we walked away from them at a time of need? We
are sticking with them," he said. "We have a purpose, we have a mission, we have
a task ahead. We are going to get on with that task of building a better
Britain."

Close allies believe the Prime Minister can see off his critics because of the
Cabinet-level support and a recognition among backbenchers that a change of
leader would need to be followed by an early general election in which many of
them would lose their seats.

But Lord Falconer of Thoroton, the former Lord Chancellor and a close friend of
Tony Blair called for an "urgent debate" on Mr Brown's leadership, telling the
BBC: "We need unity above all. Can we get unity under the current leadership? I
am not sure we can and we need to debate it urgently and I think probably it
will need a change in leader."

His intervention fuelled claims by left-wingers that Blairites were plotting
against Mr Brown.

Dissident Labour MPs promised to press ahead with their plans to publish a
round-robin letter demanding his departure after the PLP meeting.

Mr Brown and Labour whips aimed a telephone campaign at wavering backbenchers
over the weekend, offering a range of threats and inducements.

Further reports Pages 4-8

Bruce Anderson Page 27

Editorial Page 28

Yasmin Alibhai-Brown Page 29

You ask the questions: Michael Dobbs Page 32

Labour milestone

Worst result ever

As it slumped to its worst performance since the modern party was formed in
1918, last night Labour failed to top the poll in Wales for the first time after
an unbroken 91 years of dominance. Factions of the Liberal Party representing
the interests of the working classes broke away in 1893 to form the Independent
Labour Party, which held together an association of socialist MPs. The
parliamentary group took the Labour Party name in 1906, electing Kier Hardie as
leader. It adopted individual membership 12 years later.

Brickbats and bouquets

Voices from the party

* Nick Raynsford, former minister: "We have seen over the last week a whole
series of events all indicating the profound unhappiness of very many MPs ... If
we don't take the right decision now that mood of unhappiness will continue. We
will have a long lingering downward decline towards ... almost inevitable
electoral defeat next year. That would be disastrous."

* First Secretary Lord Mandelson:

"Stop taking shots at the Prime Minister ... If we get the policy agenda right,
and if it's sufficiently bold and decisive, then the public will take a
different look at us."

* Alan Johnson, the new Home Secretary:

"I think Gordon Brown is the best man for the job. You are never going to get a
politician that is absolutely perfect in every respect, Tony Blair wasn't, none
of his predecessors have been."

* Cabinet Office minister Tessa Jowell: "Gordon Brown loves the Labour Party. He
is Labour through and through. The team has got to rally round Gordon and build
the strength that the evidence of a team and a government working together can
do."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Eurosceptics exploit unpopularity of the major parties;
Ukip

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 534 words


THE UK Independence Party was on course early today to leapfrog Labour and come
second to the Conservatives in the popular vote in the European elections.

Its leader, Nigel Farage, who had threatened to resign if his party won fewer
than 10 European seats, looked safe in his job after Ukip capitalised on the
unpopularity of the biggest parties.

It was expected to win 13 seats in Brussels when all the votes had been counted.
A BBC projection put it on 17 per cent of the vote, ahead of Labour on 16 per
cent and the Liberal Democrats on 14 per cent. Ukip celebrated after winning its
first seat in the European parliament at the expense of Labour in Wales, where
it gained nearly 13 per cent of the vote.

The party came second - ahead of the Liberal Democrats and Labour - in the East
of England with almost 20 per cent of the vote. It was also running second in
the South West of England, where it was likely to win two seats. It was third in
Yorkshire and Humber, where Godfrey Bloom, the MEP who once complained that
women did not "clean behind the fridge enough", was re-elected.

In London its vote fell by two per cent, but it had one MEP returned.

Mr Farage claimed last night that his party could have polled even more strongly
had the campaign focused more on European issues. He claimed that his party's
policy of withdrawal from the EU was increasingly popular with the electorate.

Ukip's strong performance completes a remarkable recovery for a party that had
once appeared to be staring into the political abyss. In 2004, buoyed by the
high-profile candidacy of television presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk, it secured 12
seats in the European parliament, with 16.1 per cent of the vote.

That unexpected surge of support five years ago pushed the Liberal Democrats
into fourth place. But the party rapidly plunged into chaos and in-fighting.

Mr Kilroy-Silk resigned to form another Eurosceptic party, Veritas, after his
leadership ambitions were thwarted. One of its MEPs was jailed for expenses
fraud, and a second faces prosecution. Shortly afterwards, it appeared in danger
of heading for extinction, barely registering at the general election. But it
has rebuilt its fortunes under Mr Farage's charismatic leadership. The expenses
scandal handed a gift to Ukip as it attempted to raise its profile with the
electorate.

Early today, Mr Farage said the party was now set to put up candidates for 500
Westminster seats.

He said: "It's about time we had a general election where we really discuss
where 75 per cent of our laws are made."

??? The Liberal Democrats were failing to benefit from Labour's woes as the
first results were declared, but were holding on to existing seats and
maintaining their share of the vote largely unchanged, at about 13 per cent.

In the North East region, Lib Dem MEP Fiona Hall was re-elected, coming third
behind the Conservatives and Ukip, with 17 per cent of the vote.

"In our strong areas, the protest vote came to us but in the areas where it had
been Labour-dominated, it went to Ukip," she said.

In Yorkshire and the Humber, the Lib Dems were fourth, with 13 per cent of the
vote, down 2.5 per cent, and in the Eastern region, they came third, holding on
to their one seat.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

A NATION IN REVOLT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 157 words


THE loud and clear message of last night's European results is that the public
is fed up to the back teeth with politicians taking them for granted.

Voters stayed at home in their droves and rejected the mainstream parties which
must now heed the rude wake-up call.

The ballot was to send MEPs to Brussels but the outcome was above all else a
people's revolt against the obscene expenses of many MPs.

Labour humiliatingly paid the price for weeks of division and disunity. The
party rebels are deluded if they think continued warfare will improve its
prospects.

And Tory leader David Cameron has nothing to shout about either after a
relatively weak showing by a man who claims to tap the national mood.

Ukip benefiting from the protest is a huge irony after its MEPs rode the
Brussels gravy train in first-class carriages. And any vote for the racist BNP
is horrifying.

Responsible politicians must heed the lesson of last night for all our sakes.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

TO THE POINT;
YOUR LETTERS

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 146 words


TONY Parsons called the BNP and UKIP "Monster Raving Loonies". Screaming Lord
Sutch will be turning in his coffin.

The Monster Raving Loony Party is not racist nor anti-Europe. The BNP and UKIP
are dangerous, too loony for the Monster Raving Loony Party.

Lord Toby Jug, Monster Raving Loony Party, Cambs

THE expenses scandal will damage our system of government. We seem like a banana
republic.

Terry Kingsland Stevenage, Herts

IMON Cowell should get Susan Boyle into a studio with her family and cat for
comfort. Her record is awaited eagerly. Max Nottingham, Lincoln

CHARITIES blame the recession for a lack of donations but often do not give an
address or phone number, only a website. I don't own a computer and nor do many
people.

E Deakin Nantwich, Cheshire

If you'd like a mention for one of your friends or relatives, write or email to
Readers' Birthdays to the address below.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

EURO TRASHED;
BROWN SUFFERS A HUMBLING DEFEAT IN BRUSSELS ELECTION

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 185 words


GORDON Brown had a Euro election nightmare last night as voters humiliated
Labour.

The party may have slipped to fifth or even sixth in some areas, early results
suggested.

Deputy leader Harriet Harman admitted it was a "dismal" showing.

The scale of the defeat will heap more pressure on the PM to quit - and could
provoke calls for his resignation when he meets backbenchers tonight.

In the Eastern region Labour slumped to fourth behind the Tories, UKIP and the
Lib Dems. In Wales Labour came second to the Tories, the first time it has
failed to win a nationwide vote there since 1918.

And there was more dismay as the collapse in the Labour vote opened the door for
the racist BNP.

The far-right party returned its first MEP - taking a seat in Yorkshire and the
Humber from Labour. Health Secretary Andy Burnham said: "It is a sad moment in
British politics."

In the South West region Labour was expected to come fifth. In Cornwall the
party was on course to finish sixth.

By midnight Labour stood in third place with 16.7% of the vote.

UKIP was second with 17.2%, behind the Conservatives on 26%.

FULL STORY: PAGES 4& 5

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GLOOM Mr Brown felt anger of voters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

BROWN'S MANIC MONDAY

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 854 words


GORDON Brown faces the fight of his life today as he tries to cling on to power
after Labour's European election nightmare.

Downing Street will desperately try to pretend it is business as usual by
announcing the final moves in the government reshuffle started on Friday.

But behind the scenes, Brown's allies will be frantically trying to shore up the
PM's position after the party was humiliated at the polls last night.

Labour's vote collapsed across the country - the party looking likely to come in
fifth or sixth is some areas.

Mr Brown's MEPs were even beaten into second place in Wales, where Labour has
not failed to win a nationwide vote since 1918. The Tories got 21%, up two
points, with Labour down 12 to 20%.

AMAZED

Labour's poor showing let the British National Party return its first MEP in the
Yorkshire and Humber region. The seat was previously held by Labour.

Daniel Hodges of the anti-fascist campaign Searchlight said: "We are bitterly
disappointed. We are amazed that they got in. But it does seem that this was not
an endorsement of the BNP and their politics of hate but a protest against the
politics of Westminster."

In the Eastern region Labour slumped to fourth place behind the Conservatives,
UKIP and the Lib Dems. Labour''s share of the vote collapsed to 11% in the
region, down six points. There was a glimmer of hope in Labour's heartland North
East, where its MEPs held on despite a vote that crumbled by 9%.

Stephen Hughes, one of Labour's MEPs who scraped home in the North East, said:
"It has been a brutal campaign. I have never known so much anger on the
doorsteps."

But he gave Mr Brown some welcome support, adding: "I think he should lead us
into the next general election."

After the battering Labour has taken at the polls, the Prime Minister's aides
will this morning be desperately trying to rally backbench support ahead of his
crucial meeting with Labour MPs in the Commons tonight - seen by many to be
moment when his fate will be decided.

They will also be trying to stop a raft of junior ministers from resigning and
calling for Mr Brown to quit.

Yesterday Brown loyalists and those who want him to step down jockeyed for
position. Ex-Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer, a close friend of Tony Blair, stuck
the knife in saying it was time for Mr Brown to go. Other Labour backbenchers
said the party was committing "political suicide" under Mr Brown.

Some compared him to Michael Foot, Labour's most disastrous post-war leader. But
Chief Whip Nick Brown said Labour rebels should either make their move or rally
behind the Prime Minister.

He said: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if they've
got sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference.

"If they can't do that, they should get behind the leadership the overwhelming
majority of party members support."

Mr Brown made a speech to a hastilyarranged meeting of activists in East London
yesterday in an effort to steady the party's nerve. He apologised that wife
Sarah was not with him and joked: "She hasn't resigned."

He warned the public would not forgive the party if they turned on each other
instead of sorting out the nation's problems. He said: "What will people think
of a Labour government faced with an economic crisis if we walked away from them
at a time of need?"

Earlier Lord Falconer said the party needed to reunite under a different leader.
He added: "I think we are moving moderately quickly towards the need for a
change and that change may be a change in leadership.

"We need unity above all. Can we get unity under the current leadership? I am
not sure that we can and we need to debate it urgently and I think probably it
will need a change in leader."

RECOVERY

Cabinet minister Tessa Jowell put her foot in it when she said Mr Brown would be
prepared to step aside like Tony Blair if it was in the interests of the party.

She said: "If Gordon Brown were to reach a conclusion that he personally was an
obstacle to Labour's recovery and achievement, then of course like Tony Blair
did... in the very bad days when Tony Blair was Prime Minister, that is
precisely what Tony Blair said."

She later issued a statement saying she did not want Mr Brown to go.

It said: "Gordon Brown should not stand down. He should get on with the job and
we should all unite behind him."

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson warned the rebels to "stop taking shots" at Mr
Brown. He said: "If we were to have a third leader in a single parliament it
would mean irresistible pressure to hold a general election."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 10

TROUBLES AHEAD

IF Gordon Brown survives Manic Monday he still has other tough political hurdles
in his path.

TOMORROW: First meeting of the new Cabinet - senior ministers could tell him to
go.

WEDNESDAY: At Prime Minister's Question Time, he could be publicly mauled by
David Cameron leading to a no-confidence motion with Labour MPs abstaining.

JULY 24: By-election in Glasgow North East after Speaker Michael Martin stepped
down.

NEXT FEW WEEKS: By-election in Norwich North after Labour's Ian Gibson stepped
down.

SEPTEMBER: At Labour Conference, could be calls for him to go.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEAVING Ian Gibson BATTLING ON Gordon Brown yesterday vowed he would
not walk away SUPPORT Lord Mandelson told rebels to stop attacking their leader
or it could force Labour to call an early election SLIP UP Cabinet minister
Tessa Jowell said PM would step aside if necessary but later explained she did
not want him to TIME TO GO Lord Falconer on TV yesterday saying Labour Party
must unite and to do so 'it will need a change in leader'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

THE PARTY HAS ONLY ITSELF TO BLAME FOR RECEIVING SUCH A MAULING...IT MUST GET
ACT TOGETHER OR FACE TOTAL DISASTER

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 247 words


LABOUR well and truly earned last night's nasty kick in the ballots.

The Government can have no complaint after its week of very public brawling.

Ministers widely predicted the terrible European results. Yet the doom-laden
forecasts failed to soften the blow. Make no mistake: Labour suffered one hell
of a beating for its incompetence and division.

Gordon Brown as Prime Minister must shoulder responsibility. But so too must
rebels who have turned the party into a playground fight.

There'll be no coup after key Cabinet ministers stuck with Mr Brown. So now the
revolting peasants either put up or shut up. Because the shambolic attempted
coup by ultraBlairites fanned the electoral disaster.

No wonder Hazel Blears with her mocking pounds 180 "Rocking the Boat" brooch is
abused as a traitor.

And last night was a taste of what's to come at a general election unless the
Government gets it together.

Yet cocky David Cameron should be nervous too. The Tories failed to make the big
breakthrough.

What we witnessed was a great revolt against established parties.

Disgust over duck islands and phantom mortgages boosted outsiders, especially
UKIP. Leaders of the main parties must clean-up politics or extremists will
prosper. My gut feeling remains Brown will survive as PM. But Labour will not
make headway when it's split.

Cameron still has a general election mountain to climb with a hung Parliament
possible. If last night's kicking doesn't bring Labour MPs to their senses,
nothing will.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                 2 Star Edition

EURO TRASHED;
BROWN BRACED FOR HUMBLING DEFEAT IN BRUSSELS VOTE

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 183 words


GORDON Brown was facing a Euro election nightmare last night as Labour headed
for humiliation at the polls.

The party may have slipped to fifth or even sixth in some areas, early results
suggested.

Deputy leader Harriet Harman admitted it was a "dismal" showing.

Chief whip Nick Brown blamed it on disgruntled Labour voters staying at home. He
said: "They are disappointed and there are two principal reasons - the expenses
scandal and the economic downturn."

The scale of the defeat will heap more pressure on the Prime Minister to quit -
and could provoke calls for his resignation when he meets Labour backbenchers
this evening.

But loyal chief whip Mr Brown defied rebels to put forward a rival candidate. He
said: "If they can't do that, get behind the leadership."

There was some good news for Labour as they clung on to seats in their
heartlands. Their vote share was up in the East Midlands. Labour candidates also
won in the North East, although their vote share fell 9%.

UKIP were set to be the night's main winners as pundits tipped them to come
second with up to 18 MEPs.

FULL STORY: PAGES 4& 5

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GLOOM Mr Brown was fearing defeat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

CRASH GORDON;
Euro poll rout has left PM with just hours to save job LABOUR MPs TO DECIDE
BROWN'S FATE TONIGHT

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1145 words


LABOUR was heading for a crash in the European elections last night - leaving
Gordon Brown sweating on a make-or-break showdown with party MPs this evening.

The PM was braced for a miserable 18 per cent share of the national vote, with
tiny UKIP coming SECOND in polling for the European Parliament.

Labour were thought to be on course to finish third, after early fears they
could slip to fourth spot.

And tonight party backbenchers and Peers will decide if it is time to kill off
the battered Premier once and for all.

Rebel leaders have still not come up with the 100 signatures of backbenchers
they promised on a no-confidence coup letter.

And the PM is preparing to buy them off by promising an Iraq War probe and will
shelve plans to sell off the Royal Mail within days.

Tonight's crunch showdown will take place in the Commons at 6pm.

Worst

Failure to deliver the knockout blow will leave Mr Brown strengthened and give
him a clear run over the summer with no prospect of a coup in the near future.

The PM yesterday vowed he will NOT "walk away" as Labour plummeted to its worst
election results in nearly 100 years.

He shrugged off criticism at a hastily-organised and stage-managed party rally
in East London.

Surrounded by loyal activists, he declared: "What would the public think of us
if ever we walked away from them at a time of need? We are sticking with them.

"What has been happening over these last few months is a test not just of our
character, a test not just of the Government, it is a test of our beliefs."

He tried to make light of his difficulties by apologising that his wife Sarah
was not at the meeting - before assuring the audience she had "not resigned".

But rebel backbenchers have warned they are ready to break cover and DEMAND his
resignation.

Estimates yesterday showed that only 43 per cent of 375million eligible voters
cast ballots in the Euro Parliament elections - a record low.

The PM's party trailed in sixth in Cornwall - behind even the Cornish
nationalists - and was due to be wiped off the map in the South West of England.

In the South East, Labour was on course to come fifth behind the Tories, UKIP,
Lib Dems and Greens.

David Cameron's Tories were poised to clinch victory last night - with up to a
30 per cent share of the national vote.

Early signs suggested Labour's 19-strong group of MEPs would be whittled down to
fewer than 13. All parties feared the BNP's Nick Griffin would land the party's
first seat in the Brussels Parliament in the North West.

The Tories were on course to sweep to victory in Wales - the first time the
Conservatives have come first there in 80 years.

News of a Tory victory in Wales would pile on the agony for Mr Brown because the
country has been Labour red for generations.

However Labour's vote INCREASED last night as the first votes were counted in
the East Midlands and the party won in Leicester.

Labour lost nine per cent of its share of the vote in the North East despite
winning the contest there. They, the Tories and the Lib Dems were each awarded a
sin-glMEP. Governing parties in countries like France and Germany did well in
their elections - smashing Labour's claims that Mr Brown was badly affected
because voters lashed out at their governments.

The catastrophic results followed another day of turmoil for the embattled
Premier.

Lord Falconer - one of Tony Blair's oldest pals - called for Mr Brown to quit.
The ex-Lord Chancellor said the PM could not unite the party and should step
down.

He said: "I think we are moving moderately quickly towards the need for a change
and that change may be a change in leadership. We need unity above all. Can we
get unity under the current leadership? "I am not sure that we can and we need
to debate it urgently and I think probably it will need a change in leader."

Even new Cabinet Office minister Tessa Jowell appeared to suggest the PM would
resign for the good of the party.

"If Gordon Brown were to reach a conclusion that he personally was an obstacle
to Labour's recovery and achievement, then of course, like Tony Blair did," she
told the BBC.

But a spokesman later insisted Ms Jowell wanted the PM to stay.

Last night Ms Jowell let slip the next General Election will be in May 2010 - a
clear sign that the Premier has decided to stay put and fight on as long as he
can.

The PM was backed by new Home Secretary Alan Johnson, who many MPs want as their
leader.

"I don't agree that regicide gives you a unified party," he told the BBC. "I
think that Gordon Brown is the best man for the job."

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson told rebel backbenchers to "stop taking shots"
at the PM.

He said: "It would require somebody to stand against him, some-bodwho is raising
their standard and saying they could do a better job. We don't have that
person."

Chief Whip Nick Brown said Labour rebels should either make their move or rally
behind the PM.

He added: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if
they've got sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference. If
they can't do that, they should get behind the leadership that the overwhelming
majority of party members support."

Cabinet ministers have now taken a vow of loyalty to the PM and decided to stick
with him.

They were out in force last night in a show of unity as they desperately rallied
round him and shored him up for the time being.

But former minister Nick Raynsford has warned Labour could be out of power for a
generation if they did not ditch Mr Brown.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

Mandy raps edgy Brown

PETER Mandelson branded Gordon Brown insecure, angry and self-conscious, it
emerged yesterday.

The Business Secretary's damning judgment was made 18 months ago in an email to
Derek Draper - the man at the centre of Labour's smeargate scandal.

Mr Brown was a "self-conscious person, physically and emotionally." He added:
"He is not as comfortable with his own skin as Tony (Blair) was. We are all
complex but Gordon has developed fewer ways of masking and managing his
insecurities." Lord Mandelson, who appeared on Andrew Marr's BBC show yesterday,
said he was not being "hostile".

Sir Al's talks on TV future

BBC bosses have summoned Sir Alan Sugar for talks about his future on The
Apprentice after he took a top job with the Government.

The Tories complained after Sir Alan was appointed the PM's enterprise tsar and
given a peerage. They said there would be serious questions about the Beeb's
"political independence" if he remained on the hit show.

Sir Alan yesterday insisted he would be "politically neutral" - adding on TV's
Andrew Marr Show: "I don't see this as a political thing. I am an advisor, not a
policymaker."

Shadow culture secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "Sir Alan has to make a choice."

Yas! Yas! Yas! - Pages 12 and 13

Worst Labour poll result for 100yrs

18% Brown set for third place

161M Voters out of 375M eligible

30% Share for Cameron's Tories

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feeling the heat ... beads of sweat on PM at meeting in London
yesterday
Eur lot . . counters go through votes in Manchester Town Hall
Hello Sugar ... Lord Mandelson with Sir Alan on Marr show
'Obstacle' ... Jowell
'Change needed' . . Lord Falconer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

CountBrown

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


EURO ELECTION DISASTER

SHOWDOWN WITH MPs TONIGHT WILL SEAL PM'S DESTINY

GORDON Brown's fate will be decided by Labour MPs at 6pm today.

The countdown to the crunch meeting that could result in Brown being forced out
as PM began last night as Labour headed for annihilation in the Euro elections.

The party was set to come third, behind UKIP. Labour backbenchers will meet the
PM in the Commons to decide if he is finished. Full Story - Pages 4& 5

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

CountBrown

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


GORDON Brown's fate will be decided by Labour MPs at 6pm today.

The countdown to the crunch meeting that could result in Brown being forced out
as PM began last night as Labour headed for annihilation in the Euro elections.

The party was set to come third, behind UKIP. Labour backbenchers will meet the
PM in the Commons to decide if he is finished. Full Story - Pages 4& 5

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

CRASH GORDON;
LABOUR MPs TO DECIDE BROWN'S FATE TONIGHT Euro poll rout has left PM with just
hours to save job

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON; GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1130 words


LABOUR was heading for a crash in the European elections last night - leaving
Gordon Brown sweating on a make-or-break showdown with party MPs this evening.

The PM was braced for a miserable 18 per cent share of the national vote, with
tiny UKIP coming SECOND in polling for the European Parliament.

Labour were thought to be on course to finish third, after early fears they
could slip to fourth spot.

And tonight party backbenchers and Peers will decide if it is time to kill off
the battered Premier once and for all.

Rebel leaders have still not come up with the 100 signatures of backbenchers
they promised on a no-confidence coup letter.

And the PM is preparing to buy them off by promising an Iraq War probe and will
shelve plans to sell off the Royal Mail within days.

Tonight's crunch showdown will take place in the Commons at 6pm.

Worst

Failure to deliver the knockout blow will leave Mr Brown strengthened and give
him a clear run over the summer with no prospect of a coup in the near future.

The PM yesterday vowed he will NOT "walk away" as Labour plummeted to its worst
election results in nearly 100 years.

He shrugged off criticism at a hastily-organised and stage-managed party rally
in East London.

Surrounded by loyal activists, he declared: "What would the public think of us
if ever we walked away from them at a time of need? We are sticking with them.

"What has been happening over these last few months is a test not just of our
character, a test not just of the Government, it is a test of our beliefs."

He tried to make light of his difficulties by apologising that his wife Sarah
was not at the meeting - before assuring the audience she had "not resigned".

But rebel backbenchers have warned they are ready to break cover and DEMAND his
resignation.

Estimates yesterday showed that only 43 per cent of 375million eligible voters
cast ballots in the Euro Parliament elections - a record low.

In Scotland, Labour support slumped leaving a string of top politicians facing a
wipeout if the scenario is repeated at a General Election. Full results, based
on proportional representation, won't be known until later today when votes from
the Western Isles are counted.

But the overall picture points to dominance for the SNP and a resurgence for the
Conservatives. Tory workers claimed Labour had fallen to third place behind the
SNP and the Conservatives in Edinburgh South West - Chancellor Alistair
Darling's seat.

In East Renfrewshire, where the Conservatives came first, the SNP second and
Labour third, Scottish Secretary, Jim Murphy would lose his seat.

And the Nats topped the poll in East Lothian - home turf for Labour leader Iain
Gray.

David Cameron's Tories were poised for victory with up to 30 per cent share of
the UK vote. Early signs suggested Labour's 19-strong group of MEPs would be
whittled down to fewer than 13. All parties feared the BNP's Nick Griffin would
land the party's first seat in the Brussels Parliament in the North West.

Labour lost nine per cent of its share of the vote in the North East of England
despite winning the contest there. They, the Tories and the Lib Dems were each
awarded a single MEP.

Governing parties in countries like France and Germany did well in their
elections - smashing Labour's claims that Mr Brown was badly affected because
voters lashed out at their governments.

The catastrophic results followed another day of turmoil for the embattled
Premier.

Lord Falconer - one of Tony Blair's oldest pals - called for Mr Brown to quit.
The ex-Lord Chancellor said the PM could not unite the party and should step
down.

He said: "I think we are moving moderately quickly towards the need for a change
and that change may be a change in leadership. We need unity above all. Can we
get unity under the current leadership?

"I am not sure that we can and we need to debate it urgently and I think
probably it will need a change in leader."

Even new Cabinet Office minister Tessa Jowell appeared to suggest the PM would
resign for the good of the party.

"If Gordon Brown were to reach a conclusion that he personally was an obstacle
to Labour's recovery and achievement, then of course, like Tony Blair did," she
told the BBC.

But a spokesman later insisted Ms Jowell wanted the PM to stay.

Last night Ms Jowell let slip the next General Election will be in May 2010 - a
clear sign that the Premier has decided to stay put and fight on as long as he
can.

The PM was backed by new Home Secretary Alan Johnson, who many MPs want as their
leader.

"I don't agree that regicide gives you a unified party," he told the BBC. "I
think that Gordon Brown is the best man for the job."

Business Secretary Lord Mandel-sotold rebel backbenchers to "stop taking shots"
at the PM.

He said: "It would require somebody to stand against him, somebody who is
raising their standard and saying they could do a better job. We don't have that
person."

Chief Whip Nick Brown said Labour rebels should either make their move or rally
behind the PM.

He added: "The time has come for them to nominate their candidate, see if
they've got sufficient nominations and take the issue to a party conference. If
they can't do that, they should get behind the leadership that the overwhelming
majority of party members support."

Cabinet ministers have now taken a vow of loyalty to the PM and decided to stick
with him.

They were out in force last night in a show of unity as they desperately rallied
round him and shored him up for the time being.

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

Mandy raps edgy Brown

PETER Mandelson branded Gordon Brown insecure, angry and self-conscious, it
emerged yesterday.

The Business Secretary's damning judgment was made 18 months ago in an email to
Derek Draper - the man at the centre of Labour's smeargate scandal.

Mr Brown was a "self-conscious person, physically and emotionally." He added:
"He is not as comfortable with his own skin as Tony (Blair) was. We are all
complex but Gordon has developed fewer ways of masking and managing his
insecurities." Lord Mandelson, who appeared on Andrew Marr's BBC show yesterday,
said he was not being "hostile".

Sir Al's talks on TV future

BBC bosses have summoned Sir Alan Sugar for talks about his future on The
Apprentice after he took a top job with the Government.

The Tories complained after Sir Alan was appointed the PM's enterprise tsar and
given a peerage.

They said there would be serious questions about the Beeb's "political
independence" if he remained on the hit show.

Sir Alan yesterday insisted he would be "politically neutral" - adding on TV's
Andrew Marr Show: "I don't see this as a political thing. I am an advisor, not a
policymaker."

Shadow culture secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "Sir Alan has to make a choice."

43% Record low turn-out

20% Brown set for third place

Worst Labour poll result for 100yrs

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feeling the heat ... beads of sweat on PM at meeting in London
yesterday
Fly the flag ... patriotic council staff, left, joined Edinburgh count yesterday
but full results will be out today
Hello Sugar ... Lord Mandelson with Sir Alan on Marr show
'Obstacle' ... Jowell
'Change needed' . . Lord Falconer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2009 Monday 6:05 PM GMT

The electorate hates Labour, but does not love David Cameron

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 505 words


Celebrations at Wisteria Mansions, headquarters of the Cameronian Party, and
understandably so. For has Dave not triumphed mightily over his opponents? Nigel
hath slain his thousands and Dave his tens of thousands. Labour has been wiped
out in the county councils and Dave has 25 MEPs. Life is good - better start
dishing out the expenses forms for 2010-2015.

But soft! Why has no pundit in the television studios employed the buzz word
"landslide", which they normally love to invoke on the slightest pretext, for
its dramatic value? Because there is no manipulation of statistics whereby the
Tory performance could be presented as a landslide. This invites the question,
Dave: if your party cannot create a landslide in the present conditions, with
Labour rotting like a stranded whale on "Obama Beach" (what a Brown classic!),
under what circumstances could it possibly hope to do so?

In the local elections the Tories attracted 38 per cent of the vote, which was 6
per cent down on the previous local poll. It would notionally represent a Tory
majority of 22 seats at the next election, but even the deepest Labour pessimist
recognises his party would recoup some support above this level at a general
election. So, where is the Conservative majority coming from?

At the European elections Dave won the support of less than 10 per cent of the
British electorate; of votes cast, he won 27.7 per cent. Formerly, the argument
would have been that those natural Tories who strayed to UKIP and elsewhere will
return to the Tory fold at the general election; but times have changed. It may
well be that parties once described as "fringe" have achieved critical mass and
may retain many voters even at a general election: between them, UKIP and the
BNP gained almost three and a half million votes.

It may be we have finally reached the end of the two-party system. The only
phenomenon that could reverse this trend would be a Tory landslide. For that you
need a Thatcher-style vision: Dave, who remains as fixated on Tony Blair as
Gordon is on Barack Obama, does not qualify. A hundred focus groups are no
substitute for a strong political faith and the policies to deliver it.

What do voters see at Wisteria Mansions? Alan Duncan, the Constant Gardener, and
Francis Maude still defiantly in place. Rhetoric rather than policy. All the
makings of a business-as-usual, consensual, heir-of-Blair government. Several
questions have to be posed to Dave, every day between now and the general
election. These include:

Will you unqualifiedly guarantee to give the British people a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty, even if it has come into force?

What is your policy on immigration? (As regards what your website says on this
policy area, I have taken the charitable view you are having a laugh, Dave,
since there remains room on the back of that envelope for Hamlet's soliloquy.)

Which oppressive, anti-libertarian PC Labour statutes will you repeal?

More questions to follow in due course. I'm just trying to help you get your
message across, Dave.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2009 Monday 12:28 PM GMT

2009 European elections: ten conclusions

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 713 words


1. This is strongly Euro-sceptic result. The three anti-Lisbon parties
(Conservatives, UKIP, Greens) increased their share of the vote. The two
pro-Lisbon parties (Labour, LibDems) lost ground. When you factor all the little
anti-Brussels parties - English Democrats, No2EU, BNP, DUP, Christians, United
Kingdom First - the differential is still more pronounced. Seven out of every
ten ballots went to souverainiste parties.

2. Turnout is down again: it reached 43 per cent across the EU, 35 per cent in
Britain. Six times in a row, participation has fallen. (Not in the UK, where
former abstainers are now voting UKIP, but in the EU as a whole). The more
powerful the European Parliament becomes, the less people like it (see here for
an explanation).

3. Stop talking up the BNP. The party has won two out of 72 seats, for Heaven's
sake - and the only reason it won these was because of disproportionate media
coverage. Tim Montgomerie argues that Labour is to blame for the rise of the
fascist party, and he has a point. In the final week of the campaign, Labour had
fallen back on just one argument: "Vote for us to stop the BNP". Sadly, Labour
politicians are now so detested that this argument had precisely the opposite
effect of the one intended.

4. Incidentally, any BBC presenters reading this, why do you keep calling the
party "far Right"? Weren't you listening to Nick Griffin's acceptance speech? He
wasn't going to talk about immigration policy he said, since everyone knew where
he stood on the subject. No, his priority was to expose the way in which public
assets had been privatised. Look at the BNP's manifesto: it wants
nationalisation, subsidy, higher taxes, protectionism and (sotto voce) the
abolition of the monarchy. And look at where its votes came from. The BNP is a
symptom of Labour's collapse.

5. The survival of Labour as a major national party is now in the balance. I've
made the arguments here and here, and won't repeat them. So far, Labour MPs have
justified their pusillanimity by telling themselves that Gordon Brown is on
probation, that this really is his last chance, that if he does badly at the
next election, he's gone, blah blah.Well, the Broon has now taken Labour back to
a level of support not seen since it became a mainstream party after the First
World War. How much worse can it get, brothers?

6. For the first time in more than 50 years, the European Parliament will have
an Official Opposition. The parties of the Czech Prime Minister and the Polish
President both did well, increasing their proportions of seats (if not the
absolute numbers in a diminished total). Other free market parties have been
elected in Eastern and Western Europe, and we will soon have a strong
conservative bloc in Strasbourg. Needless to say, this horrifies the
Euro-federalists: stand by for more false, fleeting, perjur'd articles in The
Guardianabout "sitting with fringe parties". The truth is that David Cameron
will now be the spokesman and champion for millions of anti-federalist Europeans
who have no representatives among their own politicians.

7. Congratulations to UKIP. To come second in a national poll is an
extraordinary achievement. And yet today's coverage is dominated by the
relatively paltry result of the BNP (see point three).

8. Congratulations to the Greens. On the basis of last night's result, they
would have won Westminster seats in Oxford and Brighton: an endorsement of their
South East MEP, the charming and clever Caroline Lucas.

9. Congratulations to ConservativeHome. As always ConHome was quicker in calling
results than the BBC. Blogs come into their own on election nights. A
broadcaster with paid journalists around the country can't compete with an army
of volunteers texting in results from thousands of counts.

10. A sad note. My worst moment of the campaign came when, by a quirk of the
d'Hondt rules, my dear friend Therese Coffey failed to take the fifth seat in my
region from the LibDems. No one could have worked harder than Therese, who quit
her job six months ago to canvass full-time. I have yet to meet anyone who
doesn't like her. I hope that Strasbourg's loss will be Westminster's gain, and
that a lucky constituency will snap up one of the most dedicated, generous and
patriotic candidates in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2009 Monday 9:24 AM GMT

Europe(EURO)(TM)s elites deserve this EU election result

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 296 words


The record low turnout for the European Union's seventh election gives the game
away.

Voter participation has plunged from almost 63 per cent in 1979 to 43 per cent
in 2009 charting popular disenchantment with the political status quo, always
embodied by the deeply conservative EU.

This election - to those who didn't already know it - shows the exhaustion and
failure of traditional politics, especially for Social Democrats and Socialists.

Centre-right governments held their own in Germany, France and Poland, although
the triumphals are surely misplaced, as the left paid the price of their
irrelevance.

The EU election result and the fragmented patchwork quilt of rumps and dwindling
numbers of disillusioned but dutiful voters is a mark that Europe's political
classes are unable to give societies the leadership they need.

The Conservatives must be disappointed. There is no bounce for David Cameron as
Gordon Brown disappears down the toilet of history, just an overwhelming sense
of grumpy ennui.

The huge rise in votes for previously fringe parties such as Ukip or Geert
Wilders's infantile Freedom Party show us that old ways or norms no longer
apply.

But in my view, we are still living through a pre-political moment marked by the
absence of the defining political visions or the competing programmes society
needs as it faces an economic crisis.

Whatever, people might say about Ukip - who have deservedly prospered under the
leadership of Nigel Farage - no one would accuse them of representing a coherent
outlook or the political renewal that is needed.

As for the BNP, deeply unpleasant though they be, they are a natural consequence
of the British establishment's decades of dumping on the working class.

This is an EU election result that Europe's elites richly deserve.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2009 Monday 2:56 AM GMT

European election 2009: Labour is finished

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 157 words


Alright, we now have a pretty clear idea of the results. Gains for the
Euro-sceptic parties - the Conservatives, UKIP and the Greens - and losses for
the Euro-zealots: LibDems and Labour. So far, so predictable. I've won my bet
with Guido.

Still, the extent of Labour's defeat is hard to take in. They are currently
being projected 15 per cent of the vote. No major party has ever been so
diminished. To find a precedent, you have to go back to the years before Labour
became a national party, when it was simply a band of union-sponsored
candidates: "our infant might, when all ahead seemed dark as night"," as the Red
Flag has it.

There is now no argument against an early election - except fear. If Labour MPs
put their terror of the electorate above any considerations of patriotism or
democracy, they will do irreparable damage, not just to their party's long-term
prospects, but to representative democracy. This is your last chance, comrades.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

A continent goes to the polls;
Fianna Fáil suffers worst blow since 1920s

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 360 words


Fianna Fáil, the most successful political party in Western Europe, faced
meltdown last night in its most disastrous election results since the 1920s.

With the possible loss of two of the party's four European Parliament seats, its
leader, Brian Cowen, was confronted with demands for a general election after a
weekend in which the party was routed in local council elections and two
by-elections in Dublin.

Its coalition partner, the Green Party, fared even worse, with the prospect of
losing nearly all its council seats throughout the Irish Republic.

All three polls turned into a referendum on the Government's handling of the
economic crisis.

The results were so bad that it was being speculated last night that the Greens
might pull out of government, triggering a general election that need not be
held until 2012. John Gormley, the Environment Minister and Green leader, said
that the results were "a traumatic event". He told RTE radio that the party
could lose 15 of its 18 local council seats. Fianna Fáil lost all its seats in
the four local authorities around Dublin.

Mr Gormley said: "Would a general election solve anything for the coun-tryI am
quite convinced that it would not. Pulling the plug now would be
counterproductive."

Mr Cowen faces a vote of confidence this week after the main opposition party
Fine Gael, which came out top in the polls, said that his Government had lost
its authority.

By early evening Fianna Fáil had taken 25 per cent of first-preference votes in
local elections with nearly three quarters of seats accounted for. The Greens
had won just three seats in local councils, compared with 18 in the last
election in 2004. Fine Gael was on 32 per cent, putting it ahead of Fianna Fáil
for the first time.

North East Elected *Martin Callanan (C), *Stephen Hughes (Lab), *Fiona Hall (LD)
votes % +/, Lab 147,338 24.98 ,9.11 C 116,911 19.82 +1.25 LD 103,644 17.57 ,0.21
UKIP 90,700 15.38 +3.22 BNP 52,700 8.93 +2.50 Green 34,084 5.78 +1.01 EDP 13,007
2.21 Soc Lab 10,238 1.74 NO2EU 8,066 1.37 CP-CPA 7,263 1.23 Libertas 3,010 0.51
Jury Team 2,904 0.49 5.18% swing C to Lab Electorate 1,939,709; Turnout 589,865
(30.41%, ,10.42%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

UKIP moves in to claim greater share of Labour's heartlands

BYLINE: Jill Sherman ; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 610 words


Labour was heading for another disastrous set of results in the European
elections, with signs that the UK Independence Party was to be the main
beneficiary.

As results for Britain started to appear after 9pm, it was clear that in several
areas Labour had a very low share of the vote and was in danger of losing more
than seven seats.

The first result in the North East, in the party's heartlands, showed Labour's
share of the vote falling by 9 percentage points to 25 per cent of the vote,
with the Tories in second place on 20 per cent, Liberal Democrats third on 18
per cent and UKIP fourth on 15 per cent.

There were indications that UKIP could come second in share of the vote behind
the Conservatives, with either the Liberal Democrats or Labour coming third.

UKIP officials were predicting big wins in traditional Labour heartlands such as
the North East but the party was also doing well in the Eastern region and the
South East.

A spokesman for the party said that it expected to increase its share of vote
from 16 per cent in 2004 to more than 20 per cent, which could result in it
picking up several extra seats. "We're looking at getting seats in the North
East and Wales, which we wouldn't have considered a few months ago. It's an
indication of how the Labour vote has collapsed," he said.

In the South East Labour seemed to be heading for fourth or fifth place behind
UKIP and the Greens.

Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, acknowledged that the North East result was
disappointing but was hopeful that the party would break through in other
regions.

"I hope we will beat the Labour Party and that will be the end of Gordon Brown.
We are the only party which has fought this campaign on real European issues,"
he said.

"They are not voting UKIP because of expenses they are voting UKIP because they
agree with us. But because of the expenses row we have not had a proper debate
on the European issues and I suspect that, if we had, UKIP's vote share would
have been even higher."

In Cornwall there were indications that Labour's vote was collapsing and that
the party was heading for sixth place behind the Tories, UKIP, the Liberal
Democrats, the Cornish Nationalists and the Greens. If this is replicated in
other areas of the South West region, Labour looks set to lose its only seat
there.

The British National Party was pinning its hopes on the North West, where its
leader, Nick Griffin, needs 8 per cent of the vote to win its first European
seat.

The far-right party has spent £500,000 on its election campaign, believing that
a win in Europe would allow it to enter the political mainstream. Mr Griffin had
initially predicted that the BNP could win six or seven seats but that was
looking highly unlikely considering the party's relatively poor polling in the
county council elections.

Early in the evening anti-BNP protesters stopped Mr Griffin from attending the
election count in Manchester. Crowds waving placards surrounded several cars,
one of which was thought to be carrying Mr Griffin, outside Manchester Town
Hall.

The cars, one of which apparently had a window broken, drove away without anyone
getting out. A spokeswoman for Manchester City Council said: "Nick Griffin has
been driven away to avoid the protests that they have set up at both entrances.
He drove to one and could not get in then went to the other one and then was
driven away."

The protesters were carrying "Don't Vote BNP" banners and chanting "BNP is the
Nazi Party".

Mr Griffin was later driven to the town hall in a police van, entering by a back
entrance. He was surrounded by minders and police officers.

He said: "It's outrageous what the left Labour Party are doing."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The count at Manchester Town Hall where the BNP leader was mobbed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Sweet victory: how Somerset turned blue;
Despite the expenses scandal, West Country voters are taking the Conservative
message to heart

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 939 words


Politics remains a very personal business. My first experience of an election
campaign was the general election of 1929. We were living in Somerset, as we
still are, and in the old Frome constituency. We now live in the constituency of
Somerton & Frome. My mother, who had learnt her politics in the United States,
put blue rosettes on my pram and took me to canvass Maynard Terrace, a row of
miners' cottages, named after Daisy Maynard, who became Countess of Warwick and
mistress of King Edward VII.

The Conservative leader was Stanley Baldwin, who campaigned on the complacent
slogan of Safety First. The Frome constituency was won for Labour by Mr Gould,
who later became a colleague of my father on the Somerset County Council. In
1929, I was 1 year old.

My most recent experience of a Somerset campaign came last week, in the county
council elections. I sit in the House of Lords as an independent, on the cross
benches, so I no longer take an active part in party campaigns, but I do support
my family. Our youngest daughter, Annunziata, is the Conservative candidate for
Somerton & Frome, which is represented in Parliament by the Liberal Democrat
David Heath. It is a very marginal seat - as Frome was in 1929. At the 2005
election, Mr Heath's majority was 812.

Somerton & Frome is also a marginal constituency in terms of the Somerset County
Council. In 2005 the Liberal Democrats had retained control of the county
council. Somerton & Frome, one of five parliamentary constituencies making up
Somerset County Council, was represented by thirteen councillors in 2005, of
which eight were Lib Dems and five were Conservatives.

The Conservatives, if they were to gain control of the council, needed to win
seats in Somerton & Frome. The Lib Dems dominate the Yeovil constituency, which
is the neighbour to the south, but there seemed to be few prospective gains in
Yeovil.

The Conservatives wanted to win the two South West councils of Somerset and
Devon, as in fact they did. They gave this a high priority. David Cameron paid
two visits in the months before the election, the second to the Royal Bath &
West Show, an important annual event in Somerset. The farming community in the
West Country has an underlying support for the Conservatives; the problem has
been to get it to vote.

Somerton & Frome is one of the largest constituencies in England, stretching
over more than 900 sq miles of countryside from the Wiltshire border to the
Somerset Levels. It is hard for any candidate to reach all the voters. During
the county council elections, Annunziata concentrated a large part of her time
on joining the canvassing teams around the constituency.

It was canvassing that gave us the shock of the campaign. Annunziata was the
passenger of Matthew Ellis, the young councillor for Mendip North East.
Fortunately, he has a solid car; fortunately, he is a good driver. On the
difficult road from Frome to Bath, a driver with limited experience of British
roads misunderstood a "keep right" sign to mean that one should drive on the
right-hand side of the road. Matthew was faced with a head-on collision, but
managed to swerve into the hedge; both cars were badly damaged.

That afternoon, Gillian and I were at the birthday party of a granddaughter who
had just blown out the four candles on her cake. We had a telephone call from
Annunziata to say there had been an accident, but no one had been hurt. But
these are the real modern hazards of campaigning in a large rural constituency.

Of course, the Somerton & Frome campaign had help from outside, as well as from
Mr Cameron. Our son Jacob, who is the Conservative candidate for Somerset North
East, came across with a team of canvassers from his constituency. Michael Gove
paid a particularly successful visit to the Meadow School in Bruton, where he
explained Conservative policy on education.

The Meadow School is a Steiner foundation, which encourages early years of art
and imagination. Ed Balls believes that the early years should be given to
formal learning. Bruton itself has been an educational centre for the past 200
years. The freedom that underlies Conservative educational policy is attractive
to many Bruton voters.

There were obstacles to overcome. The campaign coincided with the expenses
scandal, which created a general resentment of politicians. However, voters can
take unexpected views. One voter, in what used to be a Labour village, came out
of his house to speak to Annunziata, at the height of the expenses storm. He
said: "You're brave to be out campaigning; I will vote for you for that."
Perhaps he will.

At the end of the campaign, the count was a sweet victory for the Conservatives.
Turnout had been high: the Tories regained the county council by 35 to 21. In
Somerton & Frome, Annunziata had allowed herself two private targets. She hoped
for a Conservative vote of more than 20,000; in fact it reached 20,166. She also
hoped to get the Tory vote above 50 per cent of the votes cast; in fact it
reached 50.4 per cent, against 42.8 for the Lib Dems, 3.5 for the Greens, 2.3
for Labour, and 1.1 for UKIP.

The virtual disappearance of the Labour vote is quite remarkable. After all,
Labour won Frome as long ago as 1929. Where are the Labour voters now?
Canvassers in these West Country elections found voters were moving towards the
Conservatives because they agreed with what the Tories were saying -
particularly the support for the countryside, and the liberalism of Mr Cameron's
approach to policy. Voters do want to get Labour out; they recognise that only
the Conservatives can do that.

He managed to swerve into the hedge. Both cars were badly damaged

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Labour out for the count;
UKIP poised to come second to Conservatives

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words


Labour was on course for a disastrous outcome in the European elections last
night that could mean the party losing seats in most regions.

Gordon Brown came under new pressure as the UK Independence Party looked set to
finish in second place, with voters punishing all the main parties for the
expenses scandal.

Labour MPs will weigh the results today, knowing that they may be facing their
last chance to remove the Prime Minister.

In the first region to declare, Labour, the Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats each took a seat in the North East, but the Labour vote fell by
100,000 on last time and its share of the vote by nine percentage points. The
Conservatives had hopes of topping the poll in Wales.

Early indications suggested Labour was trailing in fifth or sixth place in the
South West behind the minority parties, and in fifth place in the South East.
Peter Hain, the Welsh Secretary, said that the results were going to be
"terrible" for Labour and the mainstream parties.

The Times learnt last night that Mr Brown is to slow down the part-sale of Royal
Mail and announce an Iraq war inquiry within days as he tries to prevent dismal
electoral results strengthening the attempt to oust him.

He appeared yesterday to be seeing off his critics, with Labour MPs reluctant to
put their names to an e-mail calling on him to quit. The threat from the Cabinet
appeared to have gone, as ministers and MPs accepted that Mr Brown's departure
would inevitably mean an early general election.

But Downing Street remained nervous over the impact of last night's results. A
meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party tonight will be crucial to Mr Brown's
short-term future.

There was surprise last night when Tessa Jowell, Mr Brown's new Cabinet Office
minister, said that the general election would be in May, ignoring the
convention that such matters are for prime ministers to announce.

Lord Falconer of Thoroton, the former Lord Chancellor, became the latest senior
figure to call on Mr Brown to leave. In an article in The Times today he says it
will be hard to unify Labour under its current leader. A leadership election
involving people such as David Miliband, Alan Johnson, Jon Cruddas and Harriet
Harman would be a chance for Labour to decide its future direction and lift the
"cloud of despair and disunity" haunting the party. "More of the same is no
longer tenable," he says. Mr Brown yesterday went to a hastily convened meeting
of Labour activists to declare that he would not "walk away". In an effort to
appease Labour MPs, he is to give the go-ahead for the Iraq war inquiry. Sources
said that he would say something this week. Lord Mandelson, meanwhile, appears
to be ready to go some way to placate dozens of Labour MPs who oppose his plans
to part-privatise the Royal Mail. While continuing to insist the move is
necessary, he is expected to concede that the time is not right. Lord Mandelson
also cast doubt on the ability of the plotters to put up a credible candidate
against Mr Brown. "It would require somebody to stand against him, somebody who
is raising their standard and saying they could do a better job, and we don't
have that person," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Votes are counted at Manchester Town Hall for the European elections.
UKIP looked set to finish ahead of Labour, whose share of the vote fell by 9
percentage points in the first results

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

A continent goes to the ballot box;
No amount of defiance can mask Labour's dire position

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 659 words


The Labour Party is in a strange position. Gordon Brown started his
counter-attack before his party knew how bad Thursday's election results were.
And they are truly dreadful, Labour has suffered its worst national results for
at least 90 years.

The last European elections in 2004 were bad enough, with a 22.6 per cent share
of the vote. But early results suggest that Labour's final share will be well
below 20 per cent.

Labour leaders were last night blaming the MPs' expenses scandal, and that
clearly adversely affected the performance of all three main parties. But Labour
did very much worse than the other two parties, who held their own.

The Tories, in clear first place, did only slightly better than five years ago
when until five or six weeks ago they might have hoped to do much better.

As in previous European elections, the Liberal Democrats did much less well than
they had done in the local council elections.

The main beneficiaries were the various other parties: the Scottish Nationalists
north of the border; and the UK Independence Party and, to a slightly lesser
extent, the British National Party and the Greens. The BNP has done well in
Labour''s industrial heartlands and gained European representation for the first
time.

The various smaller independent protest groups, which have sought to exploit
public revulsion over MPs' expenses, such as the Jury Team and anti-EU groups,
made no impact at all. Overall, it looked as though the three main parties would
gain at most three fifths of the total vote.

The European results are, of course, no guide to what will happen in the general
election. At previous European elections, alternatives to the main parties have
done well only to fall back at the subsequent general election. For instance,
UKIP won more than 16 per cent of the national vote in 2004 but just 2 per cent
less than a year later.

None of that is any comfort for Labour. It is in a dire position however defiant
Mr Brown and other ministers have been over the weekend.

Labour MPs will return to Westminster today in a very gloomy mood. Their choice
is whether to challenge Mr Brown now or to acquiesce, however reluctantly, in
the reshuffle and leadership counter-attack. The odds are that the plotters will
get nowhere this week and Mr Brown will survive in the short-term. But that will
not end the complaints or doubts about his leadership. The European results
underline just how unpopular Labour is.

Eastern Elected *Geoffrey Van Orden (C), *Robert Sturdy (C), Vicky Ford (C),
*Richard Howitt (Lab), *Andrew Duff (LD), David Campbell Bannerman (UKIP),
Stuart Agnew (UKIP) votes % +/, C 500,331 31.21 +0.38 UKIP 313,921 19.58 ,0.03
LD 221,235 13.80 ,0.20 Lab 167,833 10.47 ,5.75 Green 141,016 8.80 +3.23 BNP
97,013 6.05 +1.71 UK First 38,185 2.38 EDP 32,211 2.01 +0.23 CP-CPA 24,646 1.54
NO2EU 13,939 0.87 Soc Lab 13,599 0.85 Animals C 13,201 0.82 Libertas 9,940 0.62
Ind 9,916 0.62 Jury Team 6,354 0.40 0.21% swing C to UKIP Electorate 4,252,669;
Turnout 1,603,340 (37.70%, +1.20%) North East Elected *Martin Callanan (C),
*Stephen Hughes (Lab), *Fiona Hall (LD) votes % +/, Lab 147,338 24.98 ,9.11 C
116,911 19.82 +1.25 LD 103,644 17.57 ,0.21 UKIP 90,700 15.38 +3.22 BNP 52,700
8.93 +2.50 Green 34,084 5.78 +1.01 EDP 13,007 2.21 Soc Lab 10,238 1.74 NO2EU
8,066 1.37 CP-CPA 7,263 1.23 Libertas 3,010 0.51 Jury Team 2,904 0.49 5.18%
swing C to Lab Electorate 1,939,709; Turnout 589,865 (30.41%, ,10.42%) Yorkshire
& The Humber Elected *Edward McMillan-Scott (C), *Timothy Kirkhope (C), *Linda
McAvan (Lab), *Diana Wallis (LD), Andrew Brons (BNP), *Godfrey Bloom (UKIP)
votes % +/, C 299,802 24.45 ,0.17 Lab 230,009 18.76 ,7.51 UKIP 213,750 17.43
+2.90 LD 161,552 13.18 ,2.37 BNP 120,139 9.80 +1.75 Green 104,456 8.52 +2.78 EDP
31,287 2.55 +1.02 Soc Lab 19,380 1.58 CP-CPA 16,742 1.37 NO2EU 15,614 1.27 Jury
Team 7,181 0.59 Libertas 6,268 0.51 3.67% swing C to Lab Electorate 3,792,415;
Turnout 1,226,180 (32.33%, ,10.25%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

UKIP benefits from protest against main parties

BYLINE: Jill Sherman; Fran Yeoman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 722 words


UKIP last night appeared to be the main beneficiary from another set of
disastrous results for Labour in the European elections. A big protest vote
against all the main political parties because of the MPs' expenses row led to
increases in the votes of all smaller parties, with UKIP making a breakthrough
in several regions.

The anti-EU party got its first seat in Wales, retained its seats in the East,
the South East and Yorkshire and the Humber and increased its share of the vote.
Early this morning the party looked as if it could come second behind the
Tories, with Labour coming third or fourth.

In several regions the party increased its share of the vote by 3 to 5 per cent
and officials predicted that its share would rise from 16 to 20 per cent and
they would pick up extra seats.

"I hope we will beat the Labour Party and that will be the end of Gordon Brown.
We are the only party which has fought this campaign on real European issues,"
said Nigel Farage, UKIP leader. "They are not voting UKIP because of expenses
they are voting UKIP because they agree with us."

The Conservatives topped the poll in Wales where Labour's vote collapsed by 12
per cent. It is the first Conservative election win in Wales since 1918. The
party made huge strides in the Welsh principality by beating Labour for the
first time ever, winning 12 constituencies. The Tories had already won one MEP
seat in Scotland while keeping most of their MEP seats across England and
retaining the vote.

Labour's vote collapsed in several areas of Scotland, to the benefit of both the
Tories and the SNP. The SNP reinforced their dominant position over Labour in
Scottish politics last night when they easily took the largest share of the vote
north of the Border.

The Nationalists were also within a whisker of pulling off a sensational coup by
winning a third Scottish seat in Brussels, out of the six available in Scotland,
to add to their present two MEPs. That ultimate SNP aim in these elections could
still be realised when the Western Isles declares today, which would leave
Labour down to one MEP, out of six, from Scotland.

The SNP came top with an estimated 29 per cent of the ballots cast, up an
astonishing 13 per cent on the last European election in 2004, leaving Labour,
with around 21 per cent of the popular vote, down about five per cent on 2004
and trailing in the SNP's wake in Gordon Brown's Scottish backyard.

In areas around Scotland, the Labour vote dropped dramatically and meant that
the party could not be confident that they had retained their present two
Scottish seats in the European Parliament.

The Greens pulled off a sound performance in Scotland, winning, early estimates
suggested, around 10 per cent of the vote - not enough, however, to give them
the reward of sending an MEP to Brussels.

The Green Party was facing a frustrating set of results last night, with a
substantially increased vote share in many regions but little in terms of new
European Parliament seats to show for it.

In Eastern England, the party was comfortably in first place within the city of
Norwich, taking a quarter of all votes cast, but narrowly missed claiming a seat
despite a vote share of almost nine per cent across the region, up from 5.6 per
cent in 2004.

Rupert Read, the lead Green candidate, said the result was "very frustrating. We
did what we thought was enough but it wasn't and we narrowly missed out. It was
very close."

He said that the regional party would now turn its attention to the Westminster
by-election in Norwich North, triggered by the resignation last week of Ian
Gibson, the Labour MP who was disciplined by the party's "star chamber" after
being caught up in the expenses scandal.

In the vast South East England region, where party leader Caroline Lu-cais a
sitting MEP, the Greens were beating Labour into fifth place with about half the
votes counted.

They trailed behind the Conservatives, UKIP and Liberal Democrats, however, and
the prospect of a second Green MEP for the region hung in the balance.

In the Northwest, where Respect stood aside in the hope of giving the Greens a
better chance of beating Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, for the region's final
seat, the Greens were trailing behind the nationalists in interim results
tables, although they came third place within Manchester with 13.6 per cent of
the vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The anti-EU party looked as if it could come second behind the Tories
LEE SANDERS / NTI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

Election can bring a cash bonanza for Britain's far Right;
Analysis

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 434 words


he door to a well-funded new world of freebies, foreign trips and fantastic pay
and perks is about to open for Andrew Brons that will launch the British
National Party on to a much bigger stage.

TOf course there will be the fully equipped offices in Brussels and Strasbourg,
the salary of ¤91,980 a year (£80,443), the annual staff budget of up to
¤210,480, which can be spent on employees in the European Parliament or in the
UK, and the office allowance for telephone and postal costs of ¤50,424 a year
(no receipts required).

Then, depending on how often he turns up for work in the European Parliament,
there is the daily allowance of ¤298, making the total annual possible amount
¤88,804 - again, no receipts needed, just signing in during the day.

As Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, boasted during the election campaign, he
received more than £2 million over the course of the last five-year European
Parliament session, much of which was channelled back to UKIP in Britain.

Mr Brons will also be able to represent Britain and the EU by joining at least
two of the European Parliament's 34 delegations to other national parliaments,
which have regular all-expenses-paid visits to foreign climes to cement
fraternal relations.

A target could be the delegation to the United States, whose 42 full members
travel every year to Washington to rub shoulders with senior Congress members
and are formally received on the floor of the Senate.

The gateway to even further funding and, crucially, influence, will be opened if
Europe's far-right parties can club together to form an official parliamentary
group. This will require at least 25 MEPs (up from 20 in the last session) from
a minimum of seven countries and there were signs last night that the threshold
could be met. An official group would not only receive guaranteed speaking
rights in the parliament chamber at every debate and formal occasion but also a
share of the annual ¤26.3 million allowance for parliamentary groups.

This year, the IndDem group, which includes UKIP, with 22 MEPs under the old
rules, was given a total of ¤775,969 towards the costs of extra offices,
secretarial support and press officers, translation for meetings and party use
in the UK.

The BNP's share, depending on the number of MEPs, could be more than ¤100,000 a
year.

Mr Brons will be able to apply to sit on European Parliament committees, where
legislation is scrutinised, and which would give him the right to propose
legislation by writing official reports.

If the European far Right bands together, it will have the power to claim deputy
chairmanships of some committees.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

Labour out for the count;
UKIP poised to come second to Conservatives

BYLINE: Philip Webster ; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 376 words


Gordon Brown suffered a disastrous mauling in the polls last night as the
British National Party achieved its biggest electoral breakthrough.

The far-Right party took its first seat in the European Parliament as Labour
endured sharp falls in its vote across the country.

The Prime Minister, preparing for a critical meeting tonight with Labour MPs
that could seal his short-term future, saw his party endure a night of
unrelieved gloom, losing seats in most regions.

The Times learnt last night that Mr Brown is to slow down the sale of Royal Mail
in an attempt to appease unhappy MPs. An inquiry into the Iraq war will also be
announced within days.

Labour was trailing the UK Independence Party, while the Conservatives made a
remarkable comeback in Wales, finishing on top. It was the first time that
Labour had lost the popular vote there since 1918.

But in perhaps the biggest blow to the governing party, the BNP took the last of
six seats in Yorkshire, with Andrew Brons securing 120,000 votes. It also had
hopes in the North West where its leader, Nick Griffin, was in line for a seat.
There will be dismay among Labour MPs that the party's vote has fallen so
sharply that it has opened the door for the far-Right. Andy Burnham, the Health
Secretary, said that it was "deeply uncomfortable" to see the BNP polling in
such large numbers. He said that it had been a beneficiary of an "anti-politics
mood" that had hit all the main parties since the expenses scandal broke.

In Labour's North East heartland, the first region to declare, the party saw its
share of the vote drop by 9 percentage points since the vote in 2004.

After the first four regions to declare, Labour was third on 16.7 per cent of
the vote behind the Tories on 25.9 per cent and UKIP on 17.2 per cent. The
Liberal Democrats were on 13.6 per cent.

Harriet Harman, who had predicted a "very dismal" night for Labour, sought to
deflect attention from the Prime Minister, putting the blame for Labour's poor
performance on the row over MPs' expenses. "Our supporters are absolutely
furious with us. They expect us to have higher standards than the Tories," she
said.

But in an apparent sign of leadership confidence about Mr Brown's prospects,
Nick Brown, the Labour Continued on page 5, col 1

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Votes are counted at Manchester Town Hall for the European elections.
The UK Independence Party looked set to finish ahead of Labour while the BNP won
its first European seat in Yorkshire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Labour's heartlands under threat from UKIP advance

BYLINE: Jill Sherman ; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 400 words


Labour was heading for a disastrous set of results in the European elections,
with signs that the UK Independence Party was to be the main beneficiary.

As results for Britain started to appear after 9pm, it was clear that in several
areas Labour had a very low share of the vote and was in danger of losing more
than seven seats.

The first result in the North East, in the party's heartlands, showed Labour's
share of the vote falling by nine percentage points to 25 per cent of the vote,
with the Tories in second place on 20 per cent, Liberal Democrats third on 18
per cent and UKIP fourth on 15 per cent.

There were indications that UKIP could come second in share of the vote behind
the Conservatives, with either the Liberal Democrats or Labour coming third.

UKIP officials were predicting big wins in traditional Labour heartlands such as
the North East but the party was also doing well in the East region and the
South East.

A spokesman for the party said that it expected to increase its share of vote
from 16 per cent in 2004 to more than 20 per cent, which could result in it
picking up several extra seats. "We're looking at getting seats in the North
East and Wales, which we wouldn't have considered a few months ago," he said.

In the South East Labour seemed to be heading for fourth or fifth place behind
UKIP and the Greens.

While Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, acknowledged that the North East result
was disappointing, he was hopeful that the party would break through in other
regions.

"I hope we will beat the Labour Party and that will be the end of Gordon Brown.
We are the only party which has fought this campaign on real European issues,"
he said. "They are not voting UKIP because of expenses - they are voting UKIP
because they agree with us."

In Cornwall there were indications that Labour's vote was collapsing and that
the party was heading for sixth place behind the Tories, UKIP, the Lib Dems, the
Cornish Nationalists and the Greens. If this is replicated in other areas of the
South West, Labour looks set to lose its only seat there.

The British National Party was pinning its hopes on the North West, where its
leader, Nick Griffin, needs 8 per cent of the vote to win its first European
seat. Mr Griffin had predicted that the BNP could win six or seven seats but
that was looking unlikely considering the party's relatively poor polling in the
county council elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Dominant SNP eyes third seat as Labour support fades away

BYLINE: Angus Macleod; Lindsay McIntosh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 607 words


The SNP reinforced their dominant position over Labour in Scottish politics last
night when they easily took the largest share of the vote in the European
Parliament elections north of the Border. The Nationalists were also within a
whisker of pulling off a sensational coup by winning a third seat in Brussels,
out of the six available in Scotland, to add to their present two MEPs.

That ultimate SNP aim in these elec-tioncould still be realised when the Western
Isles declares today, which would leave Labour down to one MEP from Scotland.

The SNP came top with an estimated 29 per cent of the ballots cast, up an
astonishing 13 per cent on the last Euro-election in 2004, leaving Labour, with
around 21 per cent of the popular vote, down about five per cent on 2004 and
trailing in the SNP's wake in Gordon Brown's Scottish backyard.

In areas around Scotland, the Labour vote dropped dramatically, meaning that the
party could not be totally confident that it had retained its present two
Scottish seats in the European Parliament.

The Conservatives came a comfortable third in Scotland with around 18 per cent
vote share, giving them one MEP. While allowing the party to claim that their
recovery in Scotland is still under way, the Tories will be disappointed that
they did not break the 20 per cent barrier. The Liberal Democrats came fourth
with around 12 per cent, also giving them one MEP but a result which will not
give much comfort to the party's Scottish hierarchy.

The Greens pulled off a sound performance in Scotland winning, early estimates
said, around ten per cent of the vote - not enough, however, to give them the
reward of sending an MEP to Brussels.

Turnout in Scotland appeared down on the 30.6 per cent achieved in 2004, with
some estimates putting it as low as 27 per cent, slightly above the record low
for a European election in Scotland of 24.7 in 1999. The number of Scottish
seats at this election was down from the seven available in 2004 because of the
need to accommodate the Eastern Europe accession states.

The final and official Scottish result will not be announced until this morning,
with the delay due to the decision in the Western Isles, with its strong
Sabbatarian traditions, not to declare until this morning.

But the unofficial result allows First Minister Alex Salmond's Nationalists to
claim with certainty that they have built on their success in the Holyrood
elections two years ago when they came into power in Scotland for the first
time. Despite being in government in the Scottish Parliament, the SNP has
retained its popularity and Scottish voters were prepared to give the party a
vote of confidence.

The first sign that it was going to be a chastening night for Scottish Labour
came when the first local result was declared in Orkney, Britain's most
northerly parliamentary constituency. Labour came an astonishing sixth behind
their three mainstream rivals as well as the Greens and UKIP.

The SNP was increasingly confident as the night developed of winning in South
Lanarkshire, until now a solid Labour heartland, and also in Fife, where Mr
Brown has his constituency, his home and his Scottish political base; here
Labour only squeaked into first place by 0.2 per cent of the overall vote.
Labour also lost to the SNP in East Lothian, the Holyrood seat of Iain Gray, the
Scottish Labour leader, and to the Tories in East Renfrewshire, the constituency
of Jim Murphy, the Scottish Secretary.

Labour also lost out heavily to the SNP in both Dundee and Edinburgh. In the
south-west constituency in the capital - Chancellor Alistair Darling's seat -
Labour came third be-hinthe SNP and the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Labour out for the count;
SNP has eyes on third Scottish seat

BYLINE: Philip Webster ; Angus Macleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 520 words


Labour was on course for a disastrous outcome in the European elections last
night that could mean the party losing seats in most regions.

Gordon Brown came under new pressure as the UK Independence Party looked set to
finish in second place, with voters punishing all the main parties for the
expenses scandal.

Labour MPs will weigh the results today, knowing that they may be facing their
last chance to remove the Prime Minister.

In the first region to declare, Labour, the Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats each took a seat in the North East, but the Labour vote fell by
100,000 on last time and its share of the vote by nine percentage points. The
Conservatives had hopes of topping the poll in Wales.

In Scotland, Labour also received something of a drubbing in Gordon Brown's
homeland at the hands of the SNP who once again enjoyed a fruitful election
night, reinforcing the Nationalists' position as the dominant political force
north of the Border.

The Nationalists, on 29 per cent share of the vote, were assured of keeping
their two out of six Scottish MEPs, and, late on, were coming within a whisker
of winning a third seat at Labour's expense.

Labour, with only around 21 per cent of the vote, were still worried as the
later results came in that they could still forfeit one of their two Scottish
seats in Brussels. The party lost in heartland parliamentary seats around
Scotland, coming third in Edinburgh and Dundee and winning only narrowly in
Glasgow and Fife where Mr Brown has his Westminster constituency and his home.

Of the other two Scottish seats, the Tories, on around 17 per cent of the vote,
took one and the Liberal Democrats, on about 12 per cent, the other.

In England, early indications suggested Labour was trailing in fifth or sixth
place in the South West behind the minority parties, and in fifth place in the
South East. Peter Hain, the Welsh Secretary, said that the results were going to
be "terrible" for Labour and the mainstream parties.

The Times learnt last night that Mr Brown is to slow down the part-sale of Royal
Mail and announce an Iraq war inquiry within days as he tries to prevent dismal
electoral results strengthening the attempt to oust him.

He appeared yesterday to be seeing off his critics, with Labour MPs reluctant to
put their names to an e-mail calling on him to quit. The threat from the Cabinet
appeared to have gone, as ministers and MPs accepted that Mr Brown's departure
would inevitably mean an early general election. But Downing Street remained
nervous over the impact of last night's results. A meeting of the Parliamentary
Labour Party tonight will be crucial to Mr Brown's short-term future.

There was surprise last night when Tessa Jowell, Mr Brown's new Cabinet Office
minister, said that the general election would be in May, ignoring the
convention that such matters are for prime ministers to announce. Lord Falconer
of Thoroton, the former Lord Chancellor, became the latest senior figure to call
on Mr Brown to leave. In an article in The Times today he says it will be hard
to unify Labour under its current leader. SNP eyes third seat, page 8

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Votes are counted at Manchester Town Hall for the European elections.
UKIP looked set to finish ahead of Labour, whose share of the vote fell by 9
percentage points in the first results

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday

Brown stands firm as Falconer joins doubters

LENGTH: 685 words

ABSTRACT

I won't walk away, says PM, as former lord chancellor questions whether party
can unite under him

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown today insisted he would not walk away from office as he faced
mounting pressure ahead of tonight's European election results, with a former
cabinet colleague calling for him to be replaced.

Addressing a meeting of hand-picked supporters in Stratford, east London, the
prime minister said it was a "tricky time for the whole country" and the public
would not thank him or his ministers for giving up.

"What would they think of us if ever we walked away from them at a time of need?
We are sticking with them," he said, flanked by the Labour deputy leader,
Harriet Harman, and the business secretary, Peter Mandelson.

Attempting to laugh off his woes, Brown apologised that his wife, Sarah,
couldn't be at the meeting and joked that she had not resigned. He acknowledged
public anger about MPs' expenses and the state of the economy, saying: "We are
going to get on with the job of building a better Britain."

Lord Falconer, the former lord chancellor and a close friend of Tony Blair,
today said it was time for Labour to consider a change at the top. "We need
unity above all. Can we get unity under the current leadership? I am not sure
that we can," he told BBC1's Politics Show.

He said if the prime minister did not stand down there were potential candidates
waiting in the wings who could be prepared to mount a leadership bid.

"I think we are moving moderately quickly towards the need for a change and that
change may be a change in leadership," Falconer said. "In the light of what's
been happening, somebody - and I think there'll be more than one - can decide
whether or not they would wish to seek the 70 signatures that would be required
to challenge a leader."

The cabinet officer minister, Tessa Jowell, was forced to issue a statement
backing Brown after she appeared to say the prime minister would be prepared to
stand down should senior colleagues tell him to go.

"If Gordon Brown were to reach a conclusion that he personally was an obstacle
to Labour's recovery and achievement, then of course like Tony Blair did ... in
the very bad days when Tony Blair was prime minister, that is precisely what
Tony Blair said," she said on BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend.

In a statement released after the interview, Jowell said this did not mean she
thought the PM should quit. "Gordon Brown should not stand down. He should get
on with the job and we should all unite behind him," she said.

While  succeeded in temporarily easing the intense pressure on Brown, the
momentum appeared to be again building against him amid speculation that Labour
could be beaten into a humiliating fourth place behind the UK Independence Party
(Ukip) in the European parliamentary elections. If the result is that bad,
Labour rebels are expected to publish a list of names of those who would support
a new leader.

Mandelson today dismissed as "tittle-tattle" news of  describing the prime
minister as "insecure" and "self-conscious". Speaking on the BBC's Andrew Marr
show, Mandelson did not deny the contents of the email but said it had been
"completely misrepresented".

"It was not hostile to, or about, the prime minister... The prime minister is a
politician not a pop star. He concentrates on getting the policies right, not on
being a showman," he said.

Mandelson, who was in effect made deputy prime minister in the reshuffle when he
was given the additional title of first secretary of state, suggested government
policies needed a change of direction. "We have perhaps not been radical
enough," he said. He called for renewed public service reform and confirmed the
government would press on with the controversial part-privatisation of Royal
Mail.

Alan Johnson, the new home secretary, who is widely regarded as Brown's most
likely successor, continued to express loyalty for the prime minister. "I don't
agree that regicide gives you a unified party. I think that Gordon Brown is the
best man for the job," he told the Politics Show.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  June 7, 2009
                                 First Edition

Make-or-break Monday;
::: Rebels plan new push against Brown with next 24 hours critical ::: Blears
ponders Howe moment as Labour faces Euro poll meltdown Crisis? What crisis? PM
rejects challenge as rebels regroup PM arrives in Normandy and tells press:
'You're bound to have ups and downs in politics'

BYLINE: Jane Merrick and Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words


Gordon Brown faces a critical 24 hours to save his premiership, as Labour rebels
threatened a second wave of attacks designed to unseat him from power.

Labour is predicted to come fourth - a record low - when the European election
results are announced today, after the most dangerous week of Mr Brown's
political life.

Rebels are tomorrow planning to publish a list of MPs who want Mr Brown to go -
with 71 names enough to trigger a leadership contest.

With a make-or-break Monday looming, the Prime Minister attempted to rise above
the danger back home yesterday when he attended D-Day commemorations in
Normandy. He evoked the "Crisis? What crisis?" spirit of James Callaghan when he
tried to dismiss the attempted coup as the normal "ups and downs in politics".

No 10 sources last night claimed the rebels' plans were "fizzling out" after a
turbulent Friday reshuffle and questioned whether they would have more than a
few dozen names.

But there was more bad news for Mr Brown following a poll that showed fewer than
half of Labour's grassroots activists want him to lead them into the next
election, with one in five urging him to quit immediately. The YouGov poll for
Channel 4 News found that one in three thought they stood no chance of winning
the election if Mr Brown remained as leader. Leaked emails today show Lord
Mandelson, who helped preserve Mr Brown's position, last year labelled him
"insecure", "self-conscious" and "angry".

Last night, Hazel Blears, the former communities secretary, was preparing a
devastating resignation statement in the House of Commons, which could draw
comparisons with Geoffrey Howe's assault on Margaret Thatcher three weeks before
she was forced out in November 1990. Friends said Ms Blears, who quit last week
but has so far not publicly attacked the Prime Minister, wants to "have her say"
in a statement from the back benches. She may be prevented from making the
bombshell statement if her resignation is deemed to be part of the cabinet
reshuffle, but a friend said: "She wants to do it."

Labour sources predicted that the party would come fourth, behind the Tories,
Ukip and the Liberal Democrats, when the results of last Thursday's European
elections are announced tonight.

Mr Brown survived last week's turmoil, despite the resignations of five cabinet
ministers and seven members of the Government. More ministers could quit
tomorrow when he completes his reshuffle of the junior ranks.

When Mr Brown's arrival time was announced in Normandy yesterday, a small number
of Second World War veterans booed. But speaking to reporters earlier, the Prime
Minister said: "In these unprecedented times you are bound to have ups and downs
in politics."

There were signs of recriminations among Blairites last night over the
resignation of James Purnell on Thursday. Anger was directed at his colleagues,
including David Miliband and John Hutton, for failing to follow the former work
and pensions secretary over the top. Mr Hutton resigned but was said to have
"bottled out" of criticising Mr Brown.

Mr Purnell told friends he would not sign the letter organised by rebels calling
on Mr Brown to go because he had "done [his] bit". He has also ruled himself out
of becoming Labour leader, even if Mr Brown falls.

Supporters of Mr Purnell believed Mr Miliband, who was informed of his bombshell
decision to resign and call on the premier to quit three hours in advance, had
"left him dangling".

Ironically, the influence of both Lord Mandelson and Tony Blair was a key factor
in averting the coup against their one-time enemy Mr Brown. Lord Mandelson led
the phone calls to Mr Miliband and other Blairite ministers late on Thursday to
persuade them not to jump. And Mr Blair telephoned Mr Brown on Thursday offering
encouragement to the Prime Minister.

Lord Mandelson, who is now the deputy prime minister in all but name after the
cabinet reshuffle he effectively orchestrated, was "shocked and upset" at Mr
Purnell's decision to quit. He found out seconds before it broke on Sky News
shortly before 10pm on Thursday. Yesterday, the Business Secretary made clear Mr
Purnell's isolation when he said of his leadership ambitions: "I think he's
written himself out and I regret that."

UNDER PRESSURE

A bruising week: Gordon Brown listens to speeches yesterday during a memorial
service in Normandy, France, for the 65th anniversary of the D-Day landings
Gareth Fuller/PA

WILL HE SURVIVE?

The obstacles ahead

Today

Results of European elections. A bad result for Labour could trigger a second
wave of rebellion against Mr Brown.

Monday 8 June

Mr Brown will address a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party. The rebels
are planning to use this event to make it clear he should go. An email with a
list of names calling on him to step down is likely to be released.

Progress, the Blairite think-tank, will hold a debate in Portcullis House on the
future of the Labour Party, with rebels Caroline Flint and Stephen Byers
(right).

Wednesday 10 June

Mr Brown's first Prime Minister's Questions since James Purnell's resignation.

24 July

Glasgow North East by-election. Fight for the seat vacated by Speaker Michael
Martin is expected to see Labour defeated by the SNP.

A second by-election is due in Norwich North after Ian Gibson quit in fury at
being banned over his expenses. Labour could lose to the Tories.

Recess

Long summer holiday away from Westminster has proved to be perfect plotting time
- last year David Miliband caused trouble for Mr Brown

September

Labour Party conference. Armed with the signatures of more than 70 MPs, the
rebels could force a vote to trigger a leadership election.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  June 7, 2009
                                 First Edition

What the parties can expect from tonight's results;
WINNERS AND LOSERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 278 words


Labour

Gordon Brown presided over a slump to an all-time low of 23 per cent in the
county council elections, held on the same day as the European elections last
Thursday; anything less than that would push him close to full-blown crisis. The
latest predictions suggest Labour's share of the vote could slump to 18 per
cent, reducing its number of MEPs from 19 to 15. Even with the plethora of
smaller parties competing for votes, that would be difficult to defend.

Conservatives

Michael Howard led the Tories to victory in these elections in 2004 with 26.7
per cent of the vote, so David Cameron must at least match that. The party is
expected to poll marginally more, although the overall reduction in UK seats
would still cut the Tory representation from 27 to 24. Closer to 30 per cent
would see Mr Cameron as a near-certainty to win the next general election.

Liberal Democrats

Nick Clegg must also at least match his predecessor's performance to satisfy
colleagues he is moving in the right direction. Charles Kennedy polled just
under 15 per cent in 2004, sending 12 MEPs to Brussels. This time, polls suggest
the Lib Dems could win a marginally higher share of the vote.

Ukip

A notable third in 2004, but could go one better this time around. Ukip's share
of the vote in 2004 was 16.1 per cent and the party is still expected to do well
enough to maintain its standing, comfortably ahead of the Lib Dems again.

Greens

Squeezed by the Ukip surge in 2004, the Greens could be on the march this time,
aided by disillusionment with the major parties. They polled only 6.3 per cent
of the vote last time but are expected to almost double that, giving them six
MEPs, up from two.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  June 7, 2009
                                 First Edition

Labour prepares for new rout as Europe declares;
Brown in crisis European and local elections The party could finish third or
even fourth in the elections for the EU Parliament, writes Brian Brady

BYLINE: Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 716 words


Gordon Brown faced a further blow to his shattered authority last night, as
party officials warned that Labour had fared miserably in the EU Parliament
elections.

Days after Labour's share of the local election vote slumped to an historic low
of 23 per cent it appeared that the party was set for another drubbing in the
European elections, held on Thursday.

Party chiefs have resigned themselves to finishing behind the Conservatives and
the Liberal Democrats again when the European election results are announced
today.

But senior Labour sources last night suggested that the party might even slip to
fourth in the national share of the vote, behind the UK Independence Party (Ukip
). "A number of minor parties, particularly Ukip, have been benefiting from the
fallout from the MPs' expenses scandal," a senior Labour Party official said
last night. "We seem to have suffered more than most, as we did in the county
council elections last week. The indications are that Ukip have picked up so
much that they could even finish second overall."

Sceptics will suggest this is part of the "management of expectations", with
Labour hoping that the result will be better - but the mood at senior levels is
not hopeful.

The British National Party (BNP) is also expected to increase its vote share. It
confidently predicted last week that it would win a seat in the North-west,
making its leader, Nick Griffin, the first BNP MEP. But anti-fascist groups
claimed last night that the party had not made the advances it had predicted. A
spokesman for Searchlight said: "The BNP breakthrough has not happened. They may
sneak a seat in the North-west and possibly in the West Midlands, but the
sweeping gains that Nick Griffin predicted are not going to materialise."

The Tories are expecting to lead the poll again after local election successes,
which leader David Cameron said proved they could win in "every part of the
country". Labour lost all of its four councils to the Tories, including
Derbyshire, which it held for almost 30 years. The Conservatives also took Devon
and Somerset from the Lib Dems and Warwickshire from no overall control, as well
as the new Central Bedfordshire and Shropshire unitary authorities. With all the
results in from all the 34 councils that held elections, bar one ward, the
Tories gained 233 councillors while Labour lost 273 seats and the Lib Dems four.

Mr Cameron said Labour's collapse demonstrated that voters wanted a "strong,
positive and united alternative" government - and he claimed his party
represented that alternative. He added: "We have won almost every council we
could possibly have won ... We have won councils we really did not think we were
going to win."

With counting almost complete, projections suggested the Conservatives won 38
per cent of the national vote, and the Lib Dems 28 per cent, ahead of Labour on
23 per cent. Other parties took 11 per cent. Labour lost a total of 273
councillors, the Lib Dems lost four and the Tories gained 233 seats. Meanwhile,
the Green Party won 16 seats while Ukip picked up six, including three in
Staffordshire. The BNP won three seats - in Lancashire, Leicestershire and
Hertfordshire.

Turnout was mixed, with areas varying between 30 to 45 per cent - generally
lower than the last time these councils were fought on general election day in
2005. However, the share of the vote in comparison to previous years offered a
crumb of comfort for Labour, as it showed the Tories were not as far ahead as
previously suggested. The official rundown showed both the Tories and Lib Dems
had matched their performance in local elections in 2004. Labour was three
points down on its share then, which came a year before the party won the
General Election.

But the Tories' vote was significantly down on the 44 per cent achieved a year
ago. There were some suggestions that the party's vote fell in areas where the
local MP had been caught up in the expenses scandal.

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, hailing "spectacular gains" in Bristol, said this was
the beginning of a "complete transformation of city politics" with his party
taking urban seats off Labour. But he admitted it looked like the Lib Dems were
facing a strong challenge from the Tories in the rural South-west.

'Akin to the Eurovision Song Contest'

JOHN RENTOUL, PAGE 39

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  June 7, 2009

Focus: Labour in crisis: Routed in the shires, little hope for Europe: the swing
that could see Labour out for a generation

BYLINE: Julia Clark, Ipsos Mori

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 695 words


Labour has been wiped out in much of local government. After Thursday's sweeping
election defeats, the party now holds no county councils whatsoever. The Liberal
Democrats have had a poor time of it as well, losing control of Somerset and
Devon. In the latter, the Tories achieved an 8.5% swing to take overall control
from the Lib Dems; population data suggests that this may be related to the high
number of young people, who are more likely to support the Lib Dems, leaving
Devon.

Nationally, the Tories now have 1,476 councillors, having won 233 at these local
elections. Labour has lost 273 for a total of 176. Notably, the "others" count
(Greens, Ukip and BNP) has risen by 36 to 162. This increase is also likely to
be related to the expenses scandal.

While the detailed data is not yet available, there were reports of up to 22%
swing in some wards in traditional Labour strongholds such as Derbyshire, which
has gone blue with at least a 12% swing to the Tories.

Other bellwether constituencies include Dartford, Kent, where Labour has lost 18
seats and holds just two to the Tories' 74, and Chorley, Lancashire, where
Labour lost 27 seats and is down to 16 to the Tories' 51.

As with all local elections, pundits attempt to project how the outcome would
translate at a general election. But because people tend to think of local and
European elections as less important than general elections, they are more
willing to cast a vote for a party they may not consider voting for at a
national level. The Lib Dems, for example, do better locally than nationally
because of their third-party status at a national level - people are more likely
to vote for a party they believe can win.

Moreover, the recent expenses scandal has cast a shadow over all three main
parties, although Labour is suffering most. Our recent poll shows that 52% of
people say that they would consider voting for a party they wouldn't normally
support in order to avoid casting a vote for a sitting MP caught up in the
scandal. As Labour currently has the most MPs, it will be hardest hit by this
"anti-corruption" vote. Taking all this into account, it becomes easy to see why
smaller parties such as the Greens, Ukip, BNP and independent candidates had
successes.

These groups are also likely to succeed in the European elections, where smaller
parties tend to do well: in 2004, Ukip came third ahead of the Lib Dems, pulling
in 16% of the vote, a 10 percentage point jump from their share in 1999. In
addition, at the last European elections, the mainstream parties' vote shares
were far lower than their local election projections - the result of strong
showings by Ukip, the Greens, the BNP and other small parties. Where the Tories'
national projected vote share from the local elections in 2004 was 37%, their
share at the European election that year was 27%. The gap for the Lib Dems was
even larger, with their local election projection on 27%, compared to their
European vote share of 15%.

Given the expenses scandal, it is very likely that mainstream parties will do
worse at this year's European elections than they performed on a local level,
and we can expect to see smaller parties doing well at the expense of the
mainstream parties as the results come in tonight.

The national vote projection figures for this week's local elections put the
Conservatives on 38%, the Lib Dems on 28% and Labour in third place on 23%,
which seems at first glance lower than expected for the Tories (who have been
polling above 40%), and higher for the Lib Dems (who have been polling at about
20%).

However at a general election, we would probably see the public casting more
votes for mainstream parties at the expense of small parties and the Lib Dems.
Remember that, in 2004, Labour came third to the Lib Dems in the local
elections, but went on to win the 2005 general election with 36% of the vote.

This time, Labour is almost undoubtedly going to lose the general election, but
it should do better at a national election than in these local elections: if it
does not, it is likely to be in the political wilderness for more than a
generation.

Julia Clark is head of political research at Ipsos Mori


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  June 7, 2009

Business & Media: Business: OPINION: In my view: Yes, Britain's Got Problems,
but we shouldn't exit the EU stage

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 896 words


It has always struck me as odd that the British have a reputation for
pragmatism. In fact, our rulers tend to lurch from one doctrine to another. As a
senior government official once observed of successive governments of both major
parties: "They are always looking for the fairy at the end of the garden."

Amid the current chaos, in which our rulers seem to have become part of a
nationwide version of reality television, the latest fairy is proportional
representation. While understanding the case for it, I have always been
concerned about the danger that this system might give too much influence to
minority parties. Of course, perhaps it is because of the fear that Labour might
become a minority party that the remaining senior figures in the government are
once again flirting with PR.

In Britain governments tend to lose elections rather than oppositions win them.
After a long period in office, British governments are usually in perfect shape
to lose an election and, as the polls show, a sizeable majority is up in arms.
Yet the customary swing of the pendulum between right and left has been impeded
this time by the way New Labour acquiesced in so much of the Thatcherism and
neo-liberal economics it had opposed vigorously in opposition.

It is true that, after a period of excessive prudence, Gordon Brown, while at
the Treasury, mistakenly thought he had won enough respect in the financial
markets to indulge in a good old-fashioned Labour spending spree. But the
overwhelming impression is that, notwithstanding the many good things this
government has done, Blair and Brown were too obsessed with the Conservatives to
run a proper Labour government.

And a lot of thanks they have got in return. We are now faced with the prospect
of a move to the right when we have hardly, in 12 years, returned to the centre.
In particular, we are faced with the prospect of the return within 12 months of
a Conservative government whose leaders are viscerally anti-European, with
potentially damaging consequences for both this country and the rest of Europe.

It is one of the many oddities of the reality show Britain's Got Problems that
the leader of the opposition seems to have been as guilty of shenanigans with
his mortgage arrangements as other MPs, for whom such conduct has proved a
sacking offence.

A more serious concern is the anti-Europeanism which Cameron's Conservatives and
Ukip so cynically foment; although, when it comes to dealing with climate
change, terrorism, crime and other specific issues, a majority of the British
electorate is in favour of "European" solutions.

During a weekend in which the 65th anniversary of D-Day is commemorated, and
which has been preceded by some moving BBC2 coverage of that campaign, I find it
especially poignant that we have just had those strange "European" polls. We
have those elections, which so many people affect to disdain, because of the
events that led up to D-Day and immediately after. Hitler had been
democratically elected, God help us, and proceeded to ruin a number of
democracies. What became the European Union derived from the belief of Altiero
Spinelli, who had been imprisoned by Mussolini, and Jean Monnet and Robert
Schuman (whose country, France, had been overrun by Germany three times in 70
years) that Europe had had quite enough of fascism and internecine strife.

For all the bickering about the disbursement of a European budget that amounts
to less than 1.5% of EU gross domestic product, the European Union has been a
huge success, including among its members not only those traditional opponents,
France and Germany, but also former dictatorships such as Spain, Portugal and
Greece, to say nothing of the more recent arrivals from the former communist
bloc.

The UK, a late arrival at the EU table, has been a leading member of the awkward
squad ever since. But in the opinion of former EU commissioner Peter Sutherland
(now chairman of BP and Goldman Sachs International), the EU has benefited from
the tension between the more open-market and pro-globalisation UK and the
dirigisme of France and others. Whatever the leading Conservatives say, the
logic of their approach is to encourage those forces within the UK that would
happily opt out of the EU altogether, with blithe disregard for the
consequences.

But you only have to consider the huge problems - climate change, energy
security, migration, terrorism and so on - to realise the advantage of a
co-operative approach within the EU. And, in the macro-economic diplomacy
between the big blocs - the US, the EU, Brazil/Russia/India/China - which will
become intense once the world emerges from the Great Recession, Britain will
count for little if it flees from the EU umbrella.

I am not one of those Europhiles who would have it that everything in the EU
garden is wonderful. On the contrary, I think the EU has benefited from doubts
about the pace of integration. And at present, with a potential economic crisis
in eastern Europe and an apparent recrudescence of economic nationalism in
Germany, the UK is needed to fight not only its corner but also to help resist
tendencies towards economic revanchism.

As for the Lisbon Treaty, it is not the monster it is made out to be: more a
tidying-up operation to make the EU machinery more efficient. Even Jean Monnet,
towards the end of his life, no longer believed in "ever closer union".


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 7, 2009
                                   Edition 3

Labour wiped out - but Cameron can expect only 34-seat majority

BYLINE: Colin Rallings ; Michael Thrasher

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 792 words


The collapse in Labour's vote at Thursday's local elections marks the end of the
electoral coalition that Tony Blair believed would enable his party to govern
for much of the 21st century in the same way as the Tories dominated the 20th,
write Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher.

Voters across large swathes of the south and Midlands who had so
enthusiastically flocked to new Labour in the 1997 landslide have rejected the
party. The map of England's shires is almost unremittingly blue and Labour has
50 fewer county councillors than even at its previous low point in 1977.

Taking into account the likely previous results in councils where there has been
a reorganisation or boundary change, Labour lost two-thirds of the 500 seats it
was defending. The Tories emerged nearly 300 seats up, winning more than six of
every 10 seats contested, while the Lib Dems fell back a little.

Current discontent with politicians of all parties did not appear to have much
effect on turnout, which was around the long-term local election average of 35%.
It was, however, reflected in isolated successes for minor parties. The Greens,
British National party and UK Independence party all advanced by a handful of
seats, but were themselves often overshadowed by locally based campaigning and
community groups.

In an exclusive analysis for The Sunday Times, we have examined the votes cast
by more than 4.5m voters in more than 1,200 local divisions and wards contested
by at least the three major parties in order to calculate how they would have
fared if these elections had taken place in every part of the country.

This analysis has the Tories on a national equivalent vote of 35% (a four-point
increase since the local elections in 2005). This is below the symbolic 40%
mark, but still with a comfortable lead over Labour who are at a historic low of
22% (down 12 points). The Lib Dems scored 25%, down two points from 2005.

The "others" often polled heavily without winning, and in almost one in six
wards their presence led to a fall in the share of the vote for all three major
parties. Their total share of 18% is likely to seem comparatively modest when
the European parliament results are declared later tonight.

The minor parties will, however, struggle to do as well at a general election.
Adjusting the vote shares to reflect the differences between local and general
election voting seen in 2005 when the polls were held on the same day, we
project the Tories to be on course for an overall majority of 34. They would win
342 seats compared with 212 for Labour and 63 for the Lib Dems.

If the local share of the vote was a little disappointing for the Tories, they
more than met expectations in terms of seat gains. Labour lost all four of the
counties it was defending directly to the Tories. Derbyshire, Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire are now in Tory hands for the first time in
more than 30 years.

Nor in most cases was it a close run thing. Labour has been reduced to just
three councillors (from 32) in Staffordshire, and lost more than 20 seats in
both Lancashire and Nottinghamshire.

Each county contains a raft of pivotal marginal constituencies. Hyndburn,
Lancashire is significant because it is the constituency that would give the
Tories an overall majority on the basis of gaining 116 seats on a uniform 6.9%
swing from Labour. The Tories were just ahead on Thursday, but both the number
of seats and the size of the swing required show how tough their task remains
even given Labour's dismal showing.

Blair won in 1997 following a 10.2% swing, though needed nothing like that to
take power: the previous record post-war swing was Mrs Thatcher's 5.3% in 1979.

The parliamentary seat which has suddenly come into the political spotlight is
Norwich North, where Ian Gibson's resignation as an MP will trigger a
by-election. Labour will defend a majority of 5,459 in a constituency where the
old boundaries no longer match existing local government wards. The Greens are
strong in Norwich itself, but the Broadland part of the seat was clearly in the
Tory column last week. The swing needed is just 5.8%.

Equally satisfactory for the Tories were their results in the three counties of
the far southwest where they gained more than 50 seats. They took control of
both Devon and Somerset from the Lib Dems and are the largest single party in
the new Cornwall council, itself previously a Lib Dem fiefdom.

The Lib Dems can point to their own more modest successes, most particularly the
sweep to power in Bristol. It is noticeable that here, as in other pockets such
as Ashfield in Nottinghamshire and Burnley it was Labour rather than the Tories
that they damaged.

The authors are co-directors of the LGC Elections Centre, University of Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 7, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Salmond loses his footing on the moral high ground

BYLINE: JENNY HJUL

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1031 words


At an Edinburgh polling station next to a church, someone (the minister,
perhaps) had placed a helpful sign: "vote" and "pray", it said above two arrows
pointing respectively to the ballot boxes and the pews. Some politicians needed
those prayers this weekend, to stave off a wipe-out in the European elections.
In England's council elections, Labour tended to come in in third place; at
worst, it was in fourth, behind UKIP or independents.

In fact, it may take more than prayers - a miracle, maybe - to rescue Gordon
Brown and his party now. But even in the depths of their misery they are still
capable of bringing cheer to others, most conspicuously Scotland's first
minister, who hasn't smiled so much in ages.

The routing of Labour is good for the nationalists, obviously. The destruction
of the party at Westminster weakens its credibility in the Scottish parliament,
giving Salmond an easy ride. And who but the SNP will pick up the bulk of
Scotland's discarded Labour votes when Brown eventually decides or is forced to
go to the country? The Tories may be poised for an epoch-changing electoral
shift in England, but here it is the nationalists who will march ever onwards.
In a YouGov poll on the eve of the Euro election, they were tipped to win 31% of
the vote, compared with Labour on 22%, the Tories 14%, the Lib Dems 17% and the
Greens 5%.

But the greatest cause of Salmond's happiness goes beyond party politics. For
more than four weeks now he has observed, along with the rest of Britain, the
painful exposure of MPs' expenses.

Even after Brown has gone, the scandal of house-flipping and the stain of
phantom mortgages will continue to inflict damage on Westminster. A month into
the revelations, there is still no end in sight and apparently no end to the
ingenuity of some parliamentarians when it comes to milking the system.

Salmond would not be where he is today if he didn't know how to exploit such a
calamity. It's not difficult to imagine him spluttering with joy over his
morning papers with their tales of moat cleansing and whirlpool baths,
high-lustre silver shower screens and oak beams.

For a nationalist, these have been gems. Westminster, the mother of all
parliaments, is the most visible symbol of the Union. According to Salmond, it
is the Union. Its shame is the country's shame; if it is rotten, then Britain
must be rotten too. He has tried to manipulate public outrage over Westminster
to his advantage, with some success. Scotland's more open handling of expenses
claims has reflected well not just on Holyrood but on the first minister and
thus on his party. With this logic, he hopes to draw us towards the conclusion
that Scotland would be better on its own.

But it won't be, of course. This was proved during the collapse of the Scottish
banks and their subsequent bailout by the British Treasury last autumn. The
rescue package cost more billions than this little nation could ever produce -
and the vast majority of Scots who feared separation hardened their resolve
against it.

The expenses scandal should do nothing to turn their minds against the Union
now. The row has nothing to do with the institution of Britain, or even the
institution of the British parliament. It is about the people who inhabit that
place and abuse its traditions and its etiquette. The daily disclosures may give
the impression that everybody who could take was on the take but, amid the
greed, there have been exceptions - suggesting that individual choice was indeed
a factor. There were a few - sadly, it seems, a minority - who opted out of the
pigs' trough.

Among those opting in, however, were several SNP members, including Angus
Robertson, the party's leader in Westminster, who claimed £80,00 for his London
flat, and Stewart Hosie, who claimed nearly £60,000 for his second home in the
capital.

Salmond said MPs' ability to designate second homes for expenses purposes was
"dangerous" because it gave them a "financial pecuniary interest" in the
property market, but there has been no indication from his own MPs that they
intend to return their profits.

Nationalist politicians cashing in on the Westminster gravy train are no less
venal than their Labour, Tory or Lib Dem counterparts.

And then there are Salmond's own Westminster expenses. He claimed the maximum
allowance of £400 a month for food in August and September 2005, despite
parliament being in recess. He has refused to publish his diaries, which might
explain why he ate so much in London at a time when his engagements in Scotland
were particularly hectic.

During those months, he campaigned in the Cathcart and Livingston by-elections,
appeared at the SNP conference in Aviemore, at Robin Cook's funeral in
Edinburgh, held several press conferences in Scotland and reshuffled his party's
front bench. If he had found time to leave Scotland at all, it would have been
remarkable.

In normal circumstances, his claims might have caused him considerable harm, but
they have sunken somewhat in the mire. The Westminster story is one about human
fallibility to which politicians - nationalist ones, too - are as prone as
ordinary mortals. Salmond can try to score political points over Brown's
collapse, but he has no moral edge and neither does nationalism.

Future generations will blame the current crop of politicians for bringing
Westminster into disrepute and ending age-old protocols that depended on honour.
Even if half of these elected representatives are hounded out by their
constituencies, parliament itself will survive. It has survived worse dramas; it
is more than the sum of its members.

And Britain is more than its politicians as, hopefully, is Scotland. Voter
apathy, the big winner in Thursday's polls, is testament to that. Some estimates
put turnout in parts of Scotland as low as 7%, tiny even for a Euro election.
Apathy is a vote for the status quo.

Salmond may scoop up a proportion of disgusted Labour and Tory voters, but an
even greater proportion will have nothing to do with any of the parties.

There is just not enough enthusiasm out there for a constitutional crisis.
Britain may be traumatised, but it is not on the verge of a nervous break-up.

jenny.hjul@sunday-times.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 7, 2009
                                   Edition 1

If we knew what Auntie paid, it would kill her

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 718 words


That's enough transparency and openness, don't you think? We've had enough of
it. It is about time the genie was clubbed to death and put back in the bottle -
because now they are talking about making the salaries of BBC employees public.

Please God, no - anything but that. You think you were upset about the moat? You
felt a bit irritated by those second homes? Wait until you read how much the
bloody newsreaders get every year simply for reading from an autocue, looking
censorious whenever the words "Israel" or "racism" or "UKIP" are mentioned and
not belching too often.

We already know that Carrie Gracie, on the BBC News channel and thus watched
every morning by a total of 17 not terribly bright people, is on a whopping
£92,000 - and she's quite competent and likable, so one seethes a little less.
Carrie was savaged live on air by that large bucket of spite and
self-righteousness from the late cretaceous period, George Foulkes - Baron
Foulkes of Cumnock - and repeatedly asked how much she earned.

She eventually confessed to £92k and said it in a tone of voice which suggested
she thought it was about the right amount of money, sort of commensurate with
her duties, not too much, not too little etc. Well, maybe it is. But just
imagine how much the BBC must be paying Ben Brown, say, or that sanctimonious
Welsh bloke on the 10 o'clock news; I bet it would make Anthony Steen, the Tory
MP forced to stand down for spending taxpayers' money on his country house, look
like a pauper.

Or, even worse, the various quasi-celebrity monkeys whose agents land them a
12-part series explaining that Britain has a very long coastline which is, in
parts, quite attractive, or that the country has lots of nice buildings, rivers
and some hills. My guess is that even the continuity announcers on BBC3 - those
over-familiar, perky little twits who interrupt the end of the programme you're
watching to tell you that something mind-blowingly crass is about to start in
two or three minutes' time, you lucky, lucky people - get rather more every year
than the average chairman of a select committee.

I should declare an interest here, I suppose; when I worked for the BBC, as
editor of the Today programme (on about £65,000 a year, since you asked; free
biscuits and croissants withdrawn in 2002 - yep, Mr Dyke, that's sorted out the
whole problem), I always avoided inquiring about salaries in television because
I knew it would make me fume and refuse to pay the licence fee, or attack the
smug little TV monkeys indiscriminately in the corridors.

But even worse were the salaries paid to the legion upon legion of middle
managers that every director-general insists he is going to liquidate and none
ever, ever, does. The blank-faced scullions and drones in the "corporate centre"
and diversity units paid multiple six-figure sums to talk utter drivel and spoil
programmes. People like the recently departed work and pensions secretary James
Purnell, for example, who was previously engaged to provide some sort of asinine
meeja consultancy advice by the BBC's former director-general, John (now Lord)
Birt.

There was another chap with an extremely impressive title who, so far as anybody
could tell, had no job whatsoever - he simply wandered around with a clipboard
and the expression of a congenital idiot, asking people what their names were.
He'll have been on about the same as the home secretary.

No, keep it all secret or, sooner or later, we won't have a BBC at all - people
will become so annoyed they will wish for it all to be wiped away. There is not
the remotest moral or intellectual case to keep the salaries confidential, of
course, and even less so when BBC interviewers are, every day, poking
politicians in the stomach and demanding, in tones of great outrage, to know how
much they trousered from the taxpayer last year.

This irony does not seem to have registered with them, and when it does register
it will be too late, I suspect. We have all become inflamed by evidence of
unequal and unsuitable remuneration, of people making what we believe is too
much money, and are disinclined to accept assurances that it is all down to that
ectoplasmic thing, the market.

After the BBC we will turn our attentions to the National Health Service and
there will be a public bloodbath of its consultants.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BROWN: FOUR DAYS TO SAVE HIS SKIN;
Labour rebels set to confront PM tomorrow No-confidence vote to follow on
Wednesday

BYLINE: By Jason Groves and Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 155  words


GORDON BROWN has just four days to save his premiership, as Labour's civil war
rages.

Rebel MPs will call on the Prime Minister to quit at a showdown meeting tomorrow
night.

Reeling from the resignations of six Cabinet ministers last week, Mr Brown then
faces a no-confidence motion in the Commons on Wednesday. Labour whips have
ordered MPs to cancel all engagements to support him in the crunch vote.

One loyalist minister admitted:

"We are not out of the woods yet.

The next few days will be critical in deciding whether Gordon stays o r goes."

Leaders of Labour's so-called "peasants' revolt" will be emboldened by
disastrous European Parliament election results tonight, expected to put Labour
behind the tiny UK Independence Party with less than 20 per cent of the vote.

A devastating poll of Labou r activists last night showed most want Alan Johnson
to take ove r from a Prime Minister too wea k and indecisive to win an election.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Plotters sharpen their knives

BYLINE: ByJason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 872  words


LABOUR plotters were last night finalising plans for a four-day assault against
Gordon Brown in a bid to force the Prime Minister from office.

Hostilities, suspended yesterday while Mr Brown was in France for the D-Day
commemorations, will resume tonight when the European Parliament election
results roll in.

The results, expected to be a disaster for Labour, will provide a platform for a
wave of attacks on the Prime Minister.

Leading rebels, including former Home Secretary Charles Clarke, will publicly
call for him to quit ahead of a showdown with Labour backbenchers tomorrow
evening.

Caroline Flint, who stormed out of the Government on Friday, will use a speech
tomorrow night to step up the pressure. Brown loyalists fear former Communities
Secretary Hazel Blears and Pensions Secretary James Purnell will exercise their
right to make damning resignation statements in the Commons.

If Mr Brown fails to win over his mutinous MPs, Labour rebels could abstain or
even vote against him in a rare confidence vote in the Commons.

One loyalist minister admitted: "We are not out of the woods yet. The next few
days will be critical in deciding whether Gordon stays or goes.

"I don't think the rebels are numerous enough and crucially they haven't got a
candidate after the reshuffle, but it clearly isn't going to end here.

"It will depend a bit on how bad the European election results are, but the
people choosing to plot will continue over the weekend and on Monday. The next
few days are crucial."

Lord Mandelson, now effectively the Deputy Prime Minister, warned rebels they
would be committing political suicide if they ousted Mr Brown, as a new leader
would be forced to call an election.

Mr Brown's premiership hangs in the balance after he was forced to quell a
Cabinet putsch with an emergency reshuffle.

He delayed the announcement of junior ministerial appointments until tomorrow in
a bid to prevent ambitious MPs from joining the plotters.

He is now braced for a backbench revolt after a poll revealed Labour's
rank-and-file have lost confidence in their leader. Backbenchers last night
warned that Mr Brown had only "bought himself time" with his reshuffle and his
fate could be sealed in the next four days.

The Prime Minister will attempt to re-launch his failing Government next week
with announcements on policing, health and education.

He faces a growing campaign to give Labour a fighting chance at the next
election by standing down, however.

Demands grew last night after a poll by YouGov revealed that most Labour members
want Mr Brown to quit before the next election. One in five thinks he should
resign now. Almost half of those polled thought Mr Brown was a "weak and
indecisive leader" and two thirds branded him a poor communicator.

Potential successor Alan Johnson, promoted to head the Home Office last week,
topped the poll to succeed Mr Brown.

However only a handful of Labour activists thought he would be able to lead
Labour to victory at the next election.

A defiant Mr Brown vowed to "fight on" in the wake of last week's reshuffle and
terrible local election results.

If Labour is beaten into fourth place - behind the UK Independence Party - in
tonight's European Parliament poll it will fuel fresh action to oust the leader.

The first salvo could be fired at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party
tomorrow night as more MPs break cover to demand a leadership election. Plotters
have insisted they can collect the 72 signatures needed to force a contest.
Among those leading the charge is Newcastle-underLyme MP Paul Farrelly. He said:
"Now the leadership genie is out of the bottle the issue has to be sorted out
before the next General Election. "In the interests of the Labour Party, Gordon
Brown should step down. We need a breath of fresh air." Newport West MP Paul
Flynn, writing in his blog, also called for Labour to "select a new national
leader". He said: "There is a wide coalition of MPs who are sadly convinced that
a change of leadership is unavoidable. It is hoped that Gordon will accept the
will of the PLP and agree to a swift orderly exit." Tony Wright, chairman of the
Public Administration Committee, said unity rather than a change of leadership
was the best way to boost Labour's plummeting poll ratings. He said: "Our
futures will be transformed if we look solid." The Tories yesterday repeated
calls for an immediate General Election. Shadow Communities Secretary Caroline
Spelman said: "What people want is a General Election. They want a fresh start.
They want a leader who can lead." Blairite critic Stephen Byers has suggested
all backbenchers need to consider whether Mr Brown was an election "winner or a
loser". He will be speaking at a Progress meeting tomorrow night with Caroline
Flint, who attacked Mr Brown's "two-tier" Government when she quit as Europe
Minister on Friday. Mr Brown will also be bracing himself for a rash of
resignation speeches early this week. Former Communities Secretary Hazel Blears
launched a coded attack on him in her resignation letter last week but could go
further in the Commons. Outgoing Work and Pensions Secretary James Purnell has
urged Mr Brown to "do the right thing" and "stand aside to give our party a
fighting chance of winning".

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Just how long can Mr Brown last as his enemies close in?;
COMMENT

BYLINE: By Julia HartleyBrewer ASSISTANT EDITOR (POLITICS)

SECTION: COLUMNS; 26

LENGTH: 1609  words


AN UNEASY truce lingers over the Labour Party this weekend. The past few days
have seen bitter skirmishes in the battle to oust Gordon Brown from Downing
Street yet, after the high drama of Cabinet resignations, atrocious election
results and a Government reshuffle, the Prime Minister is, against most people's
expectations, still in office and, even more surprisingly, stronger than he was
a week ago.

The injured on both sides of this war of attrition have gone away to lick their
wounds but they will be back to fight another day. Meanwhile Mr Brown is left in
no man's land, wounded but not yet fatally injured, limping on as Prime
Minister, in office but no longer in power.

His is not a govern ment of the people, by the people and for the people but
government by the hour on a cash-in-hand basis.

He is safe for now. But for how long can he continue to live on borrowed time?

The Prime Minister still faces a tough few days ahead. Tonight he must endure
the humiliating results of the European elections, which are expected to see
Labour trail in third (or even fourth) place behind UKIP.

Tomorrow he must face down angry backbench Labour MPs at a parliamentary meeting
and, after the first meeting of his new Cabinet on Tuesday, survive a Commons
vote on Wednesday calling for him to dissolve Parliament and call a general
election.

Will he still be Prime Minister by the end of this week? No one knows - least of
all Gordon Brown.

But just as it was Labour MPs who crowned Mr Brown as our PM, it is only Labour
MPs who have the power to oust him.

If you were a Labour MP faced with the prospect of losing your seat (plus
lucrative pay, expenses and pensions packet) at the next election you would have
to think very hard before trying to oust Gordon Brown. The problem facing Labour
MPs this weekend - and for every weekend until next spring, by which time a
general election must be called - is that none of the options look particularly
good.

There have been a lot of comparisons made between Mr Brown's predicament and
Margaret Thatcher's last months in office: two governments that are on their
last legs with a hugely unpopular leader and polls showing ann ihilation looming
at the next general election.

BUT THE two situations are very different. In 1990 the polls showed that it was
the Prime Minister who was the problem, leaving the Tories to face almost
certain electoral defeat.

The message was clear: if they got rid of Mrs Thatcher they would stand a chance
of winning the next election. If they kept her as leader they would be wiped
out.

As it was they made the right decision, winning the 1992 election with John
Major at the helm.

This time the message is very different.

Contrary to the view of James Purnell, who resigned as Work and Pensions
Secretary on Thursday calling on the Prime Minister to resign for the good of
the party, the polls do not show any benefit from ditching Mr Brown. Not one of
the other putative leaders shows so much as a blip in the polls if they took
over. The only Labour figure who would improve the party's ratings if he took
over as leader is Tony Blair. Even Mr Brown could not fail to see the irony
there.

So what is to be gained from toppling Mr Brown now? If a new leader can be put
into place quickly, in a month or so time, it is simply untenable that he (and
it will almost definitely be a "he") could continue on until next May without
calling a general election. He would, after all, be the second Prime Minister
put in place without voters being given a say.

Yet if Labour went to the polls in the next couple of months it would
undoubtedly be focused on the expenses scandal, with the Commons authorities
poised to publish all MPs' expense claims for the past four years, which will
undoubtedly air yet more dirty linen. This could only be bad news for the
Government, which is more deeply embroiled than the Tories and has more seats to
lose. It is questionable, too, whether Labour can afford a general election,
with its campaign coffers more than GBP 10million in debt.

A popular new leader might bring a short honeymoon period but that would be
unlikely to save more than a handful of Labour seats.

So the conundrum facing Labour MPs today is not whether they win or lose, it is
whether they want to lose their jobs in a couple of months' or in a year's time?

When you look at it like that it is not really much of a dilemma. Ministers and
backbench MPs are throwing their lot in with the Prime Minister not because they
believe he is the best man for the job but in the desperate hope that "events,
dear boy, events" might save them. No one thinks that Mr Brown can win the next
general election unless there is a major event that shifts the public mood.
We're unlikely to be out of recession by next May but there could be a terror
attack, a war, a pandemic (swine flu is shaping up quite nicely) or some sort of
crisis in the Tory leadership. They are clinging to straws but that is all the
Labour Party has left to cling to.

THERE'S the little added difficulty that none of the serious contenders appears
to want the job right now - and, anyway, the rebels cannot agree on whom they
want to replace Mr Brown.

Cabinet ministers and middle-ranking colleagues who resigned might well have
looked like rats leaving a sinking ship but there was no Pied Piper to be found
to lead them. What ambitious Cabinet minister in his or her right mind would
want to be Labour leader now, facing a long recession, inevitable tax rises and
electoral defeat? They would be mad to take the job on now when, in all
likelihood, it will be theirs for the taking next year.

Much better to sit tight and let Mr Brown take all the blame for the recession
and electoral defeat then step in to save the day after the fact.

Mr Brown genuinely believes that he is the best - indeed the only - man for the
job of leading the country. He also wants to stick around long enough to take
the credit for the economic recovery, which may well be starting by next spring.
He has everything to gain and nothing to lose by hanging on to power, even if it
is only by his fingernails. Much better to lose next May and be remembered as
the Prime Minister who captained Britain through the stormy seas of the global
economic collapse than leave now and be nothing but a footnote to his
predecessor Tony Blair's decade in power.

Talk at Westminster has turned to the prospect of an autumn election but this is
ishful thinking. Unless Labour can convince Mr Brown to go there is no reason or
him to go to the country in October while the recession is in full swing when he
can hold out until next spring.

Mr Brown may be living on his wits but if the past 12 years have shown anything
they have proved him to be a born survivor. Although his Government reshuffl e
had an air of desperation, after it had to be brought forward by three days
following James Purnell's shock resignation and the Prime Minister proved too
weak to make the big changes he wanted, leaving him unable to move Alistair
Darling from the Treasury to the Foreign Offi ce, shuffl e David Miliband over
to the Home Office and put his chief ally Ed Balls in as Chancellor, he did
still manage some app ointments of Machiavellian brilliance.

Not only has he tied all of his would-be leadership challengers to him for the
next few months, at least, he also handed Alan Johnson, his biggest potential
threat as party leader, the poisoned chalice of Home Secretary, a post with so
many pitfalls that it has never in modern history been a stepping stone to the
top job.

But in reshuffl ng his Government Mr Brown has played his last big card.

He has nothing left to play with other than the power to dissolve Parliament and
call an election.

The ball is in the rebels' court but the draft letter supposedly circulating
calling on the PM to resign has yet to materialise as disgruntled backbenchers
regroup this weekend. The biggest problem they have is that party rules require
at least 70 Labour MPs to nominate an alternative candidate before a leadership
contest can be triggered and all the possible ones - Alan Johnson, David
Miliband and Purnell - have ruled themselves out.

Even if they could get enough names to launch a challenge there is no guarantee
that Mr Brown would go gracefully - or that a new leader could be brought in who
could unite the party. There is likely to be a long nd bitterly fought
leadership contest, which would see trade unions flexing their muscles.

It must not be forgotten that Labour's system for electing a leader is not as
straightforward as the other parties' onemember, one-vote system. The electoral
college still gives trade union leaders a huge say over who is leader and, with
the Big Five union bosses now the biggest Labour donors, whoever is elected will
need their support as well as the backing of MPs and rank and file party
members.

The question is: what will they have to offer the unions in return and how well
will those deals go down with voters?

IT SEEMS that while Mr Brown might have won the latest skirmish his war of
attrition with large swathes of his party - and the British people - is not over
yet. As he attended the 65th anniversary of the D-Day landings yesterday he may
have been moved to recall the words of one of his more illustrious predecessors
at 10 Downing Street. Winston Churchill, referring to a very different battle
two years before D-Day, told a shell-shocked country in 1942: "This is not the
end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is, perhaps, the end of the
beginning."

Today it is fair to say that, while the war is not yet over this is certainly
the beginning of the end for Gordon Brown.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 7, 2009

THE Week TO Come

BYLINE: Compiled by CERI RADFORD and ALEX SINGLETON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 287  words


TOMORROW

The United Nations marks World Oceans Day amid claims that fish stocks will be
exhausted in 40 years. Andrew Rawnsley's Crash Gordon (Channel Four, 8pm)
examines the credit crunch. The notable Eighties film Ghostbusters is 25 years
old. And Tom Wise, a former Ukip MEP, is in court facing false accounting and
money-laundering charges.

TUESDAY

It's Donald Duck's 75th birthday. The new Children's Laureate, who will be an
eminent children's writer or illustrator, is announced. The Association of
British Insurers plays host to Lord Turner and George Osborne at their annual

conference.

WEDNESDAY

The inquest into the death of Alexander Mosley, son of motor racing boss Max
Mosley, begins. The Gardeners' World Live show opens at the NEC in Birmingham.
England play Andorra at Wembley. And MPs have the opportunity to vote for a
dissolution of Parliament - but is it realistic to expect turkeys to vote for
Christmas?

THURSDAY

It's the 500th anniversary of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon's wedding. The
International Ceramics Fair opens in Piccadilly, while at the Grosvenor House
Hotel the Art & Antiques Fair begins.

FRIDAY

Ken Loach's Looking for Eric opens at cinemas; it's a comedy about a depressed
postman who has hallucinations of visits from Eric Cantona, the footballer. Tate
Modern's exhibition on 20th-century Futurism is opened, as is a new visitor
centre at the summit of Snowdon.

SATURDAY

The Queen marks her official birthday with the customary honours list. Carnaby
Street celebrates its influence on the Sixties with a weekend of live music and
exhibitions. The Canon Gallery's Mayfair show exhibits oil paintings in Essex.
And the Man vs Horse marathon takes place in the Welsh town of Llanwrtyd Wells.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 7, 2009

Revealed: the plot to oust Brown;
Ministers took co-ordinated action in bid to topple PM;
Lord Mandelson email branded him 'angry and insecure'

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY and MELISSA KITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013  words


A CO-ORDINATED PLOT by Cabinet ministers was behind the resignations last week
that came close to forcing Gordon Brown to step down, it can be disclosed.

Hazel Blears, James Purnell, John Hutton and Caroline Flint all claimed that
they were working alone when they handed in their resignations to No 10.

But The Sunday Telegraph can disclose that they were part of a group of
Blairites that met secretly for months and tried to co-ordinate last week's
resignations.

Their intention was to force Mr Brown to stand down in favour of Alan Johnson,
the then Health Secretary.

Mr Brown faced fresh embarrassment last night after a leaked email showed that
Lord Mandelson said the Prime Minister was "self conscious'', "insecure'' and
"angry''.

The Prime Minister faces another damaging poll defeat tonight with the
announcement of the result of the European Parliament elections. Mr Brown will
come under further pressure tomorrow night when he addresses backbenchers at the
Parliamentary Labour Party.

Meanwhile, a survey of Labour backbenchers for this paper discloses today that
almost half of those who responded either refused to support Mr Brown or wanted
him to step down.

The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that the group of Blairite ministers behind the
plot to oust the Prime Minister planned a "phasing'' of resignations after Miss
Blears quit on Wednesday.

Miss Flint, the Europe Minister, was meant to follow her on Thursday night but
held out for a better Government position, leaving Mr Purnell, the Work and
Pensions Secretary, to stage his dramatic walkout instead.

Miss Blears, the former Communities Secretary, telephoned other ministers to try
to get them to close ranks behind Mr Purnell.

However, the coup was effectively thwarted by Lord Mandelson, the Business
Secretary.

Meanwhile, Lord Mandelson's email was sent to Derek Draper, his former political
aide, nine months before his return to the Cabinet last October.

Dated January 2008, when Lord Mandelson was still a European Commissioner, it
describes Mr Brown as "insecure'', and not comfortable in his own skin, unlike
Tony Blair. He was also said to be "angry'' and "self-conscious''. The peer said
the Prime Minister followed populist policies and did not have the right kind of
strategic vision.

At the time of writing, Mr Brown, whose credibility was badly damaged after he
scrapped plans for an election in November 2007 at the last minute, was said by
Lord Mandelson to be unable to get on to the front foot.

Lord Mandelson also expressed concern that Mr Brown was preoccupied with
populist gimmicks, warning "strategic policy formulation'' is more important
than "telling people you watch The X-Factor''.

The emails fell into the hands of Paul Staines, who writes the Guido Fawkes
website, and are thought to be part of the same batch as those sent to Mr Draper
by Damian McBride, the former Downing Street aide. Mr McBride resigned after
publication of the emails - which included scurrilous and untrue rumours about
the private lives of leading Conservatives.

The latest revelations are embarrassing because Lord Mandelson, once a fierce
political foe of Mr Brown, has become his vital ally.

The comments, which echo criticisms of Mr Brown from his opponents, are certain
to be presented by Opposition parties as evidence

of what the Business Secretary "really thinks'' about the Prime Minister.

The email was sent in the context of a discussion between Lord Mandelson and Mr
Draper about a book called The Political Brain by Drew Westen. A spokesman for
Lord Mandelson said: "This email response was sent over a year ago in response
to the suggestion that Gordon Brown needed to change his image. What Peter was
saying was that Gordon should just be himself, that artificiality does not work
in politics, and that what he is and what he stands for and the policies he is
pursuing should be allowed to speak for themselves. He maintains this view.''

The revelations follow claims last year by George Osborne, the shadow
Chancellor, that Lord Mandelson, at a private meal between the two men at a
Greek taverna, had "dripped pure poison'' about Mr Brown shortly before his
return to the Cabinet.

Mr Brown's authority has been gravely weakened before tonight's announcement of
the results of the elections to the European Parliament. Labour sources are
braced for a heavy defeat.

If the party's share of the vote slips below 20 per cent, or if Labour is beaten
by the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), Mr Brown is certain to come
under further pressure to step down.

An email calling for him to go will be published tomorrow if rebels have
attracted more than 50 signatures from Labour MPs.

A survey of Labour backbench MPs by The Sunday Telegraph found that just under
half of those who responded either refused to support Mr Brown or wanted him to
step down.

Of 133 backbenchers spoken to 41 (31 per cent) refused to comment or back Mr
Brown, while 17 (12 per cent) called on him to stand down and make way for a new
leader.

The remainder, 75 (56 per cent), backed the Prime Minister as Labour's best and
only chance of victory at the next election.

Mr Brown, who was in France yesterday for the 60th anniversary of the D-Day
landings, is planning a spate of new initiatives to try to reassert his
political power. The Sunday Telegraph has learned that he is poised to announce
a long-awaited major inquiry into the 2003 Iraq War in a bid to appease his
backbench critics.

In one of the most dramatic days at Westminster for years, Mr Hutton resigned on
Friday - but did not criticise Mr Brown.

Ms Flint, learning she would not be promoted to the full Cabinet, then angrily
quit the Government, accusing Mr Brown of using her as "female window
dressing''.

Diane Abbott, the Left-leaning Labour MP, told the BBC yesterday: "It was a
Blairite coup.''

A senior source told The Sunday Telegraph that Mr Purnell, who claimed he had
acted alone, had in fact been expecting Cabinet colleagues to follow his lead
and that Mr Hutton, who said he resigned for family reasons, had been "shamed''
into resigning by Mr Purnell.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 7, 2009

Labour faces more misery in Euro poll

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 454  words


LABOUR IS braced for another heavy setback when the results of the European
elections are declared tonight.

Party sources told The Sunday Telegraph they believe that Labour could come as
low as fourth, with the UK Independence Party (Ukip) as high as second.

The anti-European party is set to be the chief beneficiary of the protest vote
against MPs in the wake of the Commons expenses scandal. One Labour insider said
he thought the Tories would gain 30 per cent of the vote, with Ukip in the low
20s, and Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the Greens below that.

Despite fears that it could benefit from voter anger, the British National Party
was not expected to make a big breakthrough. However, it could win a European
Parliament seat in the north-west of England or in the West Midlands, said
Labour sources.

One senior Labour MP said last night that he had been at the count in his
constituency and feared the worst: "It will be very bad for us, but I'm not
surprised. The campaigning has been very half-hearted, if non-existent, and we
were not expecting much. The best Gordon Brown can hope for is that people
invested so little in this, they will swallow a heavy defeat.''

However, a poor result is bound to increase pressure on the Prime Minister in
the wake of Labour's drubbing in the local council elections, also held last
Thursday.

With results in yesterday from all 34 councils that held elections, the Tories
had gained 233 councillors, and control of seven more councils while Labour lost
273 seats and control of four councils.

In terms of the national vote share, that put the Conservatives on 38 per cent,
with Labour on 23 per cent, a historic low, the Lib Dems on 28 per cent and
other parties on 11 per cent. Mr Brown admitted that the elections, in which his
party lost its four remaining county councils, had been "a painful defeat''.
Further losses when the European results come in will only pile on the agony.
Stephen Byers, a former Cabinet minister, has said Labour MPs will use the
results to judge whether Mr Brown is a loser or a winner.

John Curtice, a professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said: "In 2004,
Labour got 23 per cent of the vote at a fairly unpopular time for Tony Blair. If
they fall below 20 per cent now, it will be very difficult for Brown, and I
wouldn't be surprised if the chorus of voices calling for him to go starts
again.''

Meanwhile, a nationalist fringe party, the English Democrats, was celebrating a
major victory in the local elections after Peter Davies became the elected mayor
of Doncaster, with a majority of 354.

The party wants to stop mass immigration, leave the European Union and create an
English Parliament with the same devolved powers as Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 7, 2009

LIFE LINES;
Brownian motion proves subject to Boyle's law

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 545  words


How grotesquely cruel. After the briefest of sojourns in the sun, a rough-hewn
Scottish star-in-the-making falls to earth with a hideous thump. A short turn in
front of the nation, a makeover, a record number of hits on YouTube - it has all
come to nothing. Yes, despite the promised adoration of millions, the hope that
after years in obscurity recognition finally beckoned, Gordon Brown is "close to
collapse''.

Someone should have warned him - but all those around him climbed on the
bandwagon, and failed to point out his obvious inability to cope with the dark
side of politics. Now his administration is cracking up - as the transcript of a
desperate phone call to Britain's Got Talent impresario Simon Cowell, which has
been obtained by this newspaper, bears heartbreaking witness:

"Is that Mr Cowell? How's your top-rating Saturday-night televisual programme?''

"Gordon, get to the point. Why are you calling me?''

"Er, I want to be a popular Prime Minister. Someone like, er, Margaret Thatcher.
I've never had the chance before. but I hope that will change.''

"And what are you going to do about it?''

"I'm going to sing I Dreamed a Dream from the great British West End musical
review Les Misérables.''

"OK, Gordon, off you go...''

"There was a time when men were kind / When words were soft, and polls inviting
/ There was a time when men were blind / And thought I ruled the world in crisis

I dreamed a dream in time gone by / When floods were high, and foot and mouth
rife / I dreamed that power would never die / I dreamed a fourth term wouldn't
fade...

But the Blairites come at night / With their voices soft as thunder / As they
tear your hopes apart / As they turn your dream to shame.

And still I dreamed they'd vote for me / That I would rule for years like Tony /
But there are dreams that cannot be / And expenses claims so clearly phoney

I had a dream my life would

be / So different from this hell I'm living / So different now from what it
seemed / Now Blears has killed the dream I dreamed''

"Thanks, Gordon. But it's 50 million No's, I'm afraid.''

<!-- e00d(unknown) --> Ukip leader Nigel Farage claims some people failed to
vote for his party in the European elections because ballot papers were
"machine-folded, with a sharp crease''.

Last weekend, after I wrote a more than fair report about Ukip, I received an
emotional late-night email from a party official, claiming that anti-Ukip
propaganda had been inserted into my piece and that he could "see the joins''.
Like all good conspiracy theorists, Ukip ignore the obvious: many voters did not
want to vote for them. And if I wanted to attack Ukip, I would not do so in
code.

<!-- e00d(unknown) --> Speaking of barking mad, police were pleased as punch
with their idea to force a woman savaged by a dog to pick out her attacker from
a line-up of mutts last week. But there is something very wrong about a dog
identity parade. What if an innocent pooch were picked out by mistake? He would
have no recourse to explain himself, or give an alibi. He would not be able to
tell police he could not possibly have been in the park on the day in question,
because he was locked in the utility room for making a mess on the carpet.

The new Home Secretary, Alan Johnson, should make the matter his first priority.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

LABOUR ROUTED IN THE COUNTIES

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY POLITICAL REPORTER

LENGTH: 449 words


LABOUR slumped to a record low in yesterday's local council elections as it was
swept from power in its last four counties.

The party faced losing more than 300 seats as its projected share of the vote
plummeted to 23 per cent, leaving it trailing in third place in the last big
test of public opinion before a General Election.

Gordon Brown admitted the party had suffered a 'painful defeat'.

But in a massive backlash against the MPs' expenses scandal and the Government's
faltering handling of the economy, millions of disillusioned voters shunned the
ballot box altogether. Turnout slumped with only about 30 per cent of people
casting a vote.

In one extraordinary snapshot of the anger felt by voters, a Monster Raving
Loony Party member trounced two Labour candidates in St Ives, Cambridgeshire.

David Cameron's party made vital inroads against Labour, including snatching
Lancashire, Derbyshire and Staffordshire ñ all after 28 years ñ and
Nottinghamshire.

Council chiefs laid the blame at Gordon Brown's door. John Williams, the
defeated Labour leader of Derbyshire County Council, said: 'I feel let down
badly. I think the national party has lost us the election.'

The Tories won power at the new Central Bedfordshire Council and wrenched
Somerset and Devon county councils from the Liberal Democrats in their West
Country heartland.

By yesterday evening, the Tories had gained control of eight councils, Labour
lost three and the LibDems lost two. It is the first time in history that Labour
has not controlled a single county council.

However the Tories received only a predicted 38 per cent of the national vote,
down from 44 per cent last year. Taken together, it was the worst showing for
the two main parties since the last war.

Meanwhile, the LibDems share of the vote increased from 25 per cent to 28 per
cent. Nick Clegg was boosted by crushing Labour to take control of Bristol City
Council and snatching five of six seats in Burnley on Lancashire County Council.
But he was disappointedto lose control of his West Country councils including
Cornwall, where no party now has a majority.

Nick Griffin's British National Party picked up the other seat in Burnley to
give the extremists their first county council member. Hours later, a second
followed in Coalville, Leicestershire.

But Dan Hodges, of the antifascist group Searchlight, said the feared BNP
breakthrough had 'not materialised'.

Results of European Parliament elections, also held on Thursday, will not be
published until Sunday. Opinion polls suggested Labour could suffer some of its
worst results and finish behind the Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats, and
even fringe eurosceptics the United Kingdom Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Notebook;
My husband's medical secrets are safer with me than on a skip

BYLINE: Vicki Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 601  words


On Thursday, I was in the kitchen looking for my polling card when the phone
rang and a woman asked to speak to my husband. Happens every half hour, what
with him being currently (and temporarily, I hope) the Tenant at Will of the
village pub. But the stilted way in which she asked for him by name and title,
including "Mr'' and full initials, had a legalistic whiff.

I said he'd just left for London, but I'd take a message. Who was calling?

"Jane.'' Jane who? "Just... Jane.'' OK, where are you calling from, Jane? She
said "Erm,'' and fell silent.

Hmm. Bailiff? Duty solicitor? Or something a bit more red-top - scorned
mistress? Not that I'm the suspicious type, but any woman would be curious about
surnameless Janes.

She said, "I need to speak to Mr F A Walker in person.'' So I thought, ah, it's
a call-centre minion on her first day. Or someone doggedly following government
guidelines.

You don't work for Enterprise Inns, then, Jane? Startled, she said, "Erm, no.''
So, you don't need a signature for the beer? Jane audibly decided to give up
stalling: "Is this Mrs F. A. Walker?'' Indeed it is.

"Well, I'm calling from the medical centre,'' she said. "But we're not supposed
to tell you that.'' Really? Why? Because of the Data Protection Act? "No,
because of patient confidentiality.''

I said, look - if he's forgotten to pick up his prescription, I'll get it when
I've voted.

"It's not that. He has to have a blood test before his next prescription. But
we're not supposed to tell you that, either.'' Really? We've been married for
decades! "But he might be being tested for something he doesn't want you to know
about.''

Poor Jane (not her name) sounded really miserable now, so I asked if she had a
lot of sticky conversations with chaps' wives every morning. She said yes, so I
wished her luck with her next one. I forbore to mention the 14 separate security
breaches this year that have left the medical histories of tens of thousands of
NHS patients severely compromised (ie abandoned on skips). Patient
confidentiality, eh? No doubt government guidelines have been vamped up in hasty
panic and poured all over people like Jane.

*I couldn't find the damn polling card in the end, so went without it, wondering
if 12 years of Labour home secretaries would prevent me from voting without
"secure proof'' of identity. "No, just state your name in full,'' the official
said, crossing me off and giving me a lunatic yellow form with "Roman Party,
AVE'' on it.

Oh, and while she was on the Ws, could she tell me if Mr F A Walker had voted?
Otherwise, I'd remind him.

She said: "He's already voted, yes.'' Then she looked at her colleague, who
looked away. Ha! I said. You're not supposed to tell me that, are you? They were
silent. Why? Data Protection Act? Representation of the People Act? New
government guidelines? They looked away.

*Before I'd voted, I'd done a VoteMatch quiz on politicalbetting.com. You're
asked Important European Questions (nuclear power, immigration, the euro) and
answer from "strongly agree'' to "strongly disagree''. They aren't phrased as
questions, but suggestions, eg: "The EU should acquire its own tax-raising
powers.'' Are you kidding? Enough taxes already. Completely disagree. "It is
good that EU citizens should be able to work in any member state.'' What do they
mean by "good''? "Governments should bail out failing banks with public money.''
What do they mean by "should''?

There was a box for "open-minded'', which I am, so I mostly ticked that. I came
out as a Ukip person, which left me feeling slightly shocked and somewhat less
open-minded. I didn't vote Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

The nation knows the game is up;
Simon Heffer on saturday

BYLINE: by Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 643  words


Watching an embalmed-looking and robotic-sounding Gordon Brown giving his press
conference yesterday afternoon, one recognised one of the failings of our
otherwise revered constitution: that it places no bar on a man who has taken
leave of his senses still holding Her Majesty's commission as first minister. No
government has had so bad a day since Black Wednesday, 17 years ago; and let us
not forget the revenge the country took for that.

What is happening now makes John Major's government look like a triumph. We do
not need to rehearse here the litany of disasters affecting Mr Brown and his
administration, but let us anyway: the haemorrhaging of cabinet ministers, the
demands from backbenchers that he go, the withering contempt of former
colleagues, the abuse from the feminist "sisterhood'', the inability to handle
the expenses scandal, the shattered wreck of the British economy, the botched
reshuffle, a backbencher walking out and forcing a by-election, a slaughter in
the local elections and, tomorrow, the possibility of Labour's being beaten by
both the Lib Dems and Ukip.

How much more proof of his utter unsuitability to lead a party or a government
does Mr Brown need? And, now the momentum has started, how much more
encouragement does his party need to boot him out, and to live up to their
rhetoric of doing what is right for the country?

For most people in Mr Brown's position, just watching a recording of their own
press conference would be enough to make them reach for the revolver and the
bottle of Scotch. But Mr Brown isn't most people. He is never wrong - or at
least, despite his hints about mistakes yesterday, can never admit he is, even
to himself. Mistakes are things inevitably made by others. He has an entourage
of oiling and greasing cronies, many of them mediocrities powered by rampant
ambition, some of whom prospered in yesterday's reshuffle. Those who offer
differing opinions are reviled, humiliated, and see the rough side of Mr Brown's
occasionally infantile personality. That is why several politicians can no
longer bear to work for him. However bad the public find him, the reality is
even worse.

Labour has one chance of avoiding epic defeat in the general election, and that
is to be rid of Mr Brown and have his successor call the poll for early October.
The obvious replacement is Alan Johnson, who is reasonable, modest, honest,
capable and a superb communicator. The Conservative Party does not want him,
which should be the final proof to Labour that they need him. The reshuffle was
one of the most disastrous in modern political history: if it was meant to
relaunch the Government, it failed in every respect. Things can only get worse.

Mr Brown had to change his mind about sacking his Chancellor. He had to admit he
was so weak that he could not promote his thoroughly unlovely boot-boy, Ed
Balls, to the position. He had to put yet another minister from the Lords into
the Cabinet because of the shortage in the Commons of able people willing to
take a poisoned chalice. He had to readmit to the Cabinet a man, Peter Hain, who
had been in disgrace for failing to register a mere  pounds 100,000 of donations
to his deputy leadership campaign. And it is the ultimate measure of his
impotence that he depends upon a twice-disgraced former dodgy mortgagor, Lord
Rumba of Rio, as his main apologist.

Hardly a soul in Britain does not know the game is up. We must only hope that
the butchery at the Euro-polls that will be apparent by Monday brings Labour to
its senses, even if Mr Brown has taken leave of his. If not, the Queen has a
perfect constitutional right to warn him he is carrying on her Government in a
way that can only harm the country. If Mr Brown's backbenchers don't realise
their duty, let us hope the Sovereign, in all her wisdom, will not shirk from
hers.

simon.heffer@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DEAD MAN WALKING;
Brown's on the brink as voters desert Labour in their millions

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 533 words


GORDON Brown's troubles hit rock bottom yesterday as Labour suffered humiliation
in the local elections.

Voters across the country give him a hammering as David Cameron's Tories made
big gains.

The Prime Minister was clinging on to power by his fingertips last night after a
day in which Labour was virtually wiped off the map, four of his Cabinet
colleagues quit - and experts predicted Euro election results due on Sunday will
be even worse.

The Conservatives snatched all four of Labour's county councils as large parts
of England turned from red to blue. Labour lost Derbyshire County Council after
28 years of unbroken rule and was also beaten by the Tories in Lancashire,
Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire - a disaster which left the party without ANY
English county councils at all.

If these results were repeated in a General Election, the Tories would be in
No10 with 38% of the vote, the Lib Dems would have 28% and Labour just 23%.

Turnout was low, with many voters expressing disgust at all parties over the
MPs' expenses scandal.

But the Tories made some significant gains to show how Labour's support has
collapsed - they won Lancashire for the first time since 1981.

They also trounced the Government to hold on to Lincolnshire, while Labour
failed to gain a single councillor in newly-formed Central Bedfordshire, where
the Tories took 54 of the 66 seats up for grabs.

The Lib Dems were beaten by the Tories in their south-west strongholds, losing
Devon and Somerset - but they won Bristol City Council.

The British National Party picked up its first English county council seats,
with three victories in Lancashire, Leicestershire and Hertfordshire. And
English Democrat Peter Davies is the new mayor of Doncaster after beating Labour
and the Tories.

Mr Cameron said the results showed it was time for a General Election.

He said: "You can see the Conservative Party - strong, united and positive -
winning in every part of our country. And it has never been more necessary to be
that strong voice for change.

"We need a party that is going to bring thrift to our government, that is going
to bring responsibility to our society - and right now is going to clean up our
politics."

And there could be more public fury over Commons expenses after Scotland Yard
issued a statement saying criminal charges were "highly unlikely".

But detectives say more investigations are needed into MPs like former minister
Elliot Morley and Labour MP David Chaytor, who claimed for "phantom mortgages".

Labour put on a brave face as Mr Brown conceded it was a "testing time".

Olympics minister Tessa Jowell said: "These are very bad results.

I'm very sorry for good Labour councillors who have lost their seats.

"Of course they are bad results, there is no point in pretending otherwise, "
she added.

"This has been a highly unusual set of elections and to some extent what both
Labour and the Conservatives are seeing is a rejection of what people see as the
political establishment."

A spokesman for antiracism group Searchlight said: "It is clear the great BNP
breakthrough has not mat-erialised.

"Where voters are turning away from the major parties, they are moving to UKIP
and the Greens, rather than the extremists."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUNNERS: Odds on the next PM
WINNER: David Cameron saw big gains for Tories
LOSER: PM Gordon Brown faces reality yesterday after John Hutton, Tony McNulty
and Geoff Hoon quit the cabinet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Saturday: Comment & Debate: Comment is free: It's Alan Johnson who the Tories
really fear

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 200 words


The man Conservative HQ still fears most is Alan Johnson, and Tory strategists
have been drafting a plan to beat him. I certainly think he's a more formidable
opponent than Gordon Brown or the geeky David Miliband. A Johnson-Harman ticket
would cause the Conservatives some worry. I thought Harriet Harman would be a
disastrous deputy Labour leader but she's been a good TV performer, and seems to
be diluting her extreme feminism. But nor will dumping Brown rescue Labour. A
political party doesn't just need a popular leader. The other two essentials of
the triangle of success are economic competence and party unity. Neither of
those exist. Sunday's European elections will produce messy results. Ukip and
the Greens will do well. But the European elections have produced odd results
for a long time. At the next election, people will know that the choice is
Labour or Conservative. Ukip, the Greens and (thankfully) the BNP will fall away
as electorally irrelevant. That electoral showdown can't come soon enough.
Labour and the country need to be put out of their misery.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of the ConservativeHome blog

Read the full blogs and join the debate at guardian.co.uk/comment is free

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Front: Inside

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words


'Clutching for stardust with Alan Sugar as enterprise tsar, the prime minister
no longer knows the difference between a television programme and the real
world'

Polly Toynbee Page 31 >=

'It is as if a long, noisy and chaotic sports match had ended in an
incomprehensible draw'

Tony Travers Page 6 >=

'Other party leaders are purer than pure. I'm not' - Ukip's Nigel Farage talks
to Simon Hattenstone Page 26 >=

Find full reshuffle and election coverage and comment at guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Front: Labour in crisis: The results: Other parties

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words


BNP

The British National party won its first seats on English county councils with
victories in Lancashire, Hertfordshire and Leicestershire.

In Lancashire, the far-right party took the Padiham and Burnley West ward, in
what is its principal stronghold in the north-west, where it already has four
district councillors. The party gained 30% of the vote, buoying local activists'
hopes of getting the party's leader, Nick Griffin, elected as an MEP on Sunday
night. He needs about 8% of the vote to take a north-west seat, against the 6.4%
he polled in 2004.

The BNP picked up a second county seat in Leicestershire, knocking out a Labour
councillor in the Coalville ward. The party's candidate, Graham Partner, won
1,039 votes. In South Oxhey ward, Hertfordshire, it beat Labour by 27 votes. The
BNP also polled strongly in another of its target counties, Essex, beating
Labour in 11 wards and coming second to the Tories in Rochford North and South.

Ukip

The UK Independence party won five council seats and averaged 17% of the vote in
the seats it contested, after two-thirds of the results had been declared. Ukip
has had no councillors hitherto but won three seats in Staffordshire, one in
Suffolk, and one in Norfolk. It polled strongly where it stood against the BNP
and a spokesman said it had beaten Labour in the majority of areas it had
contested.

The party predicted a "stunning performance" in the European elections, based on
yesterday's results.

Green party

The Greens stayed upbeat despite making just four gains in yesterday's polls,
bringing their total of councillors in England and Wales to 123 across 42 local
authorities.

Among its gains, the party gained its first councillor in Devon, in the Totnes
ward, where Anthony Steen is MP. Steen, who became embroiled in the expenses
scandal, was reprimanded by the Tory party leader David Cameron last month after
claiming he was the victim of jealousy by constituents. The Greens gained five
councillors in Norfolk, and had their hopes of eventuallly returning an MP
raised when they topped the polls in Norwich South.

But while the party fielded candidates in about a third of possible seats in the
local elections, it has a full slate for the European poll when proportional
representation means minor parties stand more chance of success. Opinion polls
published in the run-up to the European elections had put the Greens hovering at
between 10% and 15%.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Front: Labour in crisis: The results: Analysis: Amid the electoral carnage, some
glimmers of hope for Labour

BYLINE: Tony Travers

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words


The local elections have further battered Labour, though not in a terminal way.
Against the backdrop of recent events, the council results will be read with
minor relief in Downing Street. Any political happening that doesn't actively
make things worse for Gordon Brown is to be viewed as a win.

As widely expected, Labour lost all its remaining shire councils: Staffordshire,
Lancashire, Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire. The loss of Derbyshire saw the party
removed from its safest county. There the Conservatives won 19 seats and an
overall majority of two.

The loss of these authorities means swaths of the local government political map
are now coloured blue. In the West Country the Tories made progress against the
Liberal Democrats, with the control of Somerset and Devon easily passing to
David Cameron's party. These gains are important for the Conservatives, who were
able to demonstrate that they can fight on two fronts at once, taking seats from
the Liberal Democrats and Labour.

Other counties where Labour took a drubbing included Lincolnshire (-15
councillors), Lancashire (-27), and Norfolk (-19). The party was already weak
across much of the south of England. It has now almost died out in counties such
as Buckinghamshire

(0 councillors), Essex (1), Surrey (1), Hertfordshire (3), Kent (2) and
Oxfordshire (1). This feeble showing will make it very hard for the party to
fight parliamentary seats. Councillors are the bedrock of such local political
activism as remains.

The final tally of councillors is likely to see the Conservatives winning up to
250 extra council seats and Labour losing about the same number. Once the new
numbers are added to those already held, the Tories will have a national total
of just more than 10,000 councillors and Labour less than 5,000. Labour's figure
is the lowest since the local government reorganisation of 1974- that is, in
modern times.

The Conservatives have moved into a stronger position in the rural Midlands and
north. The party has not been this powerful in the shires since the late 1970s,
when the Callaghan government was in its death throes. Cameron can legitimately
claim to have made progress beyond the south-east, though his base in northern
cities remains weak.

Because Thursday's elections took place only in English shire counties and
unitaries, with no local contests in Wales, Scotland, London and metropolitan
England, the results are not a precise representation of the national vote share
across the whole of Britain.

Professor John Curtice at Strathclyde University has, as in earlier years,
undertaken an exercise for the BBC that translates the results into a nationally
representative set of voting figures.

The national equivalent vote share put the Conservatives on 38%, the Lib Dems on
28%, Labour on 23% and "others" on 11%. Compared with 2008, the Tories are down
five points, Labour down one point, the Lib Dems up one point and Others up by 5
points. In short, both Labour and the Conservatives have taken a political hit
compared with their position last year, while other parties, notably the Lib
Dems, have generally gained.

This shift of opinion is likely to be magnified when Sunday's European election
results come in. The fact that compared with last year's position the Tories
were hit worse than Labour will be seen as a lifeline for Brown.

There were sparks of individuality in places. A few independents were elected in
Lincolnshire, a county where the ruling Conservative group had faced problems in
recent years. In Doncaster, an English Democrat mayor defeated Labour.

Elsewhere, there were surges of Green and Ukip voting. The BNP picked up a seat
each in Lancashire, Hertfordshire and Leicestershire. All three of these parties
managed to pick up at least one county council seat for the first time.

The results were as if a chaotic sports match had ended in an incomprehensible
draw.

Tony Travers is a local government expert at the London School of Economics

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2009



CORRECTION: A piece analysing the recent county council election results
included Oxfordshire among counties where Labour "has now almost died out"
(Councils of despair, 5 June, guardian.co.uk). In fact, Labour gained one
councillor there to achieve a total of nine. Some readers also query the
assertion in recent days that Labour holds no county councils. They point to
Durham. This is a grey area. Durham became a unitary authority on 1 April.

It is still controlled by Labour - elections were not held this year. In the
European parliament elections, yesterday's front-page story, Labour's long, dark
night, referred to the Liberal Democrats trailing fourth "as they did in 2005".
The last European parliament election was in 2004.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Front: Labour in crisis: The results: Local election results

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 574 words


Bedford

* NOC

New council LD 13/Ind 7/Lab 7/C 9

Bristol

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Lab lose 8/C gain 4/LD gain 4

New council LD 36/C 17/Lab 16/Green 1

Central Bedfordshire

* Conservative

New council Ind 1/LD 11/C 54

Cornwall

* NOC

New council Meb Ker 3/Ind 32/LD 38/C 50

Isle of Wight

* Conservative

Lab down 1/Ind up 4/C down 11

New council Lab 1/Ind 10/C 24/LD 5

Shropshire

* Conservative

New council LD 11/Ind 2/C 54/Lab 7

Wiltshire

* Conservative

New council Ind 10/Lab 2/LD 24/C 62

Shire counties

Buckinghamshire

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 11/C 46

Cambridgeshire

* Conservative

Green gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council Green 1/Vacant 1/Lab 2/LD 23/C 42

Cumbria

* No overall control

Ind gain 3/LD gain 6/Lab lose 15/C gain 6

New council LD 16/Lab 24/C 38/Ind 6

Derbyshire

* Conservative gain from Lab

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/Lab lose 16/C gain 19

New council Ind 1/Vacant 1/Lab 21/C 33/LD 8

Devon

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

Green gain 1/LD lose 19/C gain 18

New council Green 1/LD 14/Ind 2/Lab 4/C 41

Dorset

* Conservative

Lab lose 4/LD gain 1/C gain 3

New council Ind 1/LD 16/C 28

Essex

* Conservative

Lab lose 12/Ind lose 2/LD gain 4/C gain 10

New council Lab 1/LD 12/Ind 2/C 60

Gloucestershire

* Conservative

Green gain 1/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 8/LD lose 1/C gain 9

New council Green 1/LD 13/Ind 3/Lab 4/C 42

Hampshire

* Conservative

Lab lose 3/LD lose 3/C gain 6

New council Ind 1/Lab 1/LD 25/C 51

Hertfordshire

* Conservative

BNP gain 1/Lab lose 13/LD gain 3/C gain 9

New council BNP 1/Green 1/LD 17/Lab 3/C 55

Kent

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/R gain 1/Lab lose 18/LD gain 1/C gain 17

New council R 1/Lab 2/LD 7/C 74

Lancashire

* Conservative gainfrom NOC

BNP gain 1/Green gain 1/LD gain 6/Lab lose 26/C gain 18

New council BNP 1/Toad 1/LD 10/Lab 16/Green 2/Ind 3/C 51

Leicestershire

* Conservative

BNP gain 1/Lab lose 9/LD gain 3/C gain 5

New council BNP 1/LD 14/C 36/Lab 4

Lincolnshire

* Conservative

Boston gain 1/Lab lose 15/LD lose 3/Ind gain 3/C gain 14

New council Boston 1/Lab 4/LD 5/C 60/Ind 7

Norfolk

* Conservative

UKIP gain 1/Lab lose 19/Green gain 5/C gain 13

New council UKIP 1/LD 13/Lab 3/C 60/Green 7

Northamptonshire

* Conservative

Ind gain 2/Lab lose 14/LD gain 1/C gain 11

New council Ind 2/C 56/Lab 6/LD 9

Nottinghamshire

* Conservative gain from Lab

UKIP gain 1/LD gain 4/Ind gain 8/Lab lose 22/C gain 9

New council UKIP 1/Lab 13/C 35/Ind 9/LD 9

Oxfordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Green lose 3/Lab gain 1/LD lose 5/C gain 8

New council Ind 1/LD 10/Green 2/C 52/Lab 9

Somerset

* Conservative gainfrom NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/LD lose 8/C gain 11

New council Lab 2/LD 21/C 35

Staffordshire

* Conservative gain from Lab

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 29/LD gain 2/UKIP gain 4/C gain 22

New council Ind 2/Lab 3/LD 4/UKIP 4/C 49

Suffolk

* Conservative

New council Ind 2/Ukip 1/Green 2/Lib 11/Lab 3/C 54. 2 seats to be recounted,
announced on Sunday

Surrey

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1/R gain 2/LD gain 1/C lose 3

New council Ind 1/Lab 1/LD 13/C 56/R 9

East Sussex

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council LD 13/C 29/Ind 3/Lab 4

West Sussex*

* Conservative

Lab down 5/LD up 5/C up 1

New council Lab 2/LD 21/C 48

Warwickshire

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 12/LD gain 2/C gain 11

New council Ind 1/Lab 10/LD 12/C 39

Worcestershire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lib lose 1/R gain 1/Ind CHC gain 1/Lab lose 12/C gain 12

New council Lib 1/R 1/Ind CHC 2/Lab 3/C 42/LD 8

North Yorkshire

* Conservative

Lib gain 1/Lab lose 6/LD lose 5/Ind gain 4/C gain 6

New council Lab 1/Lib 1/Ind 11/LD 11/C 48

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Saturday: Interview: 'Other party leaders live in a PC world. They're all purer
than pure. Well, I'm not': He openly enjoys his booze, lapdancing and MEP's
allowance, and yet his party is enjoying a renaissance. No wonder Ukip's leader
is smiling

BYLINE: Simon Hattenstone

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2180 words


Nigel Farage is stuck in traffic, so his Ukip colleagues provide the
entertainment. There's John Gill, the office junior who looks alarmingly like
Joy Division's Ian Curtis and whose grandfather, Tory MP Christopher Gill, was
one of the original Maastricht rebels; Marta Andreasen, who was head accountant
at the EU until she turned expenses whistleblower - she now looks after Ukip's
finances and is a candidate in the European elections despite her Spanish
passport. And then there is an extrovert middle-aged skinhead wearing jeans and
shades. "So you're from the Guardian?" he says, full of bonhomie. "My brother
used to work for the Guardian. That's the good news. The bad news is I hate him.
He's a fucking twat. We said to him, the way you're going you'll end up at the
Guardian, and he fucking well did. Twat."

I'm not sure how to respond so I ask him what his relationship to Ukip is. He
thrusts out a hand for shaking. "Ah, Clive Page, head of communications." Page
fails to mention he is also a convicted benefit fraudster - in 2004, he received
an 80-hour community punishment order for claiming more than £5,000 on a flat he
didn't live in.

These could be heady times for the United Kingdom Independence party. In 2004,
they came from nowhere to win 12 seats in Europe, winning an astonishing 16% of
the vote. They soon became mired in scandal and infighting, and looked a spent
political force. Until the Westminster expenses scandal. Now they are expected
to win at least 15 seats in the European parliament. If things go well they will
remain Britain's third biggest party in Europe. If things go really well they
could be the second biggest.

The irony is Ukip's raison d'etre is to oppose Europe and clamp down on
immigration. They are sometimes confused with the BNP, which distresses them -
they like to see themselves as the
proud-to-be-British-but-not-a-single-racist-bone-in-our-body party. Meanwhile,
David Cameron described them as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

There is another Ukip irony. People are expected to embrace the party as a
protest vote, but the protest is likely to have nothing to do with Europe - it
will be about perceived corruption in the three main parties. And one final
irony - Ukip have potentially the dodgiest financial record of all; of its 12
MEPS one, former policeman Tom Wise, has been charged with money laundering and
false accounting, while another, Ashley Mote, elected for Ukip in 2004 before
becoming an independent, was jailed for benefit fraud in 2007. Mean while, the
party voted against increased EU transparency over expenses, and Farage boasts
that he has taken £2m of taxpayers' money in expenses and allowances in his 10
years as an MEP.

The Ukip leader finally arrives, in a sweat. "Bloody traffic." He is smartly
dressed as always - blue suit, pink tie, co-ordinated pink and blue shirt.
Farage is a curious hybrid - part toff, part barrow boy, Mr Angry meets Cheeky
Chappie.

Ukip HQ comprises two scruffy rooms on the fifth floor of a grand building in
central London. The photographer asks if he will stand in front of the 6ft union
flag in the corner of the office. "No, not in front of the union jack," says
Page on Farage's behalf. "That's just a joke thing."

I ask Page to explain the joke. "No, it's just an in-joke."

Photo taken, against a neutral background, Farage decides it's time for
sustenance. As he crosses the road, a black-cab driver hoots his support. Farage
gives him the thumbs-up. "A few haven't charged me, yes. They say, 'We're behind
you mate.' Yes, it's quite funny."

He leads me to a pub, a few yards from New Scotland Yard. "Ah, breakfast!" he
says. (Actually, it's lunchtime.) "I've not eaten for two days."

What does he fancy? "A pint of Landlord I would have thought, wouldn't you? You
want one. Right, goody good. Excellent." He's famous for his drinking. Ukip
enemies within (of which there have been many) minuted that he turned up for
meetings smelling of alcohol and suggested he had a drink problem. Farage said
yes, he enjoyed his drink but no, he did not regard it as a problem.

A stranger at the bar greets him cordially. Farage returns the compliment. "Keep
the pound! Absolutely sir! Very good. Very good! Absolutely. Hello, two Landlord
please."

He suggests we go outside so he can smoke. Most Ukip members seem to smoke -
probably on principle as much as anything. He sits down, sups his pint, licks
his lips, lights his Hamlet. "Terrible legislation, not to have the choice on
smoking. Why all the pubs are closing. Terrible. So, what are you after?" He
resembles two distinct television characters - when he does the military
precision schtick he could be Captain Mainwaring in Dad's Army. At other times,
with his camp elongated vowels ("ooooh, noooooooah!") he comes over all Frankie
Howerd.

Farage grew up in London. His father was a stockbroker, his mother came from a
family of senior policemen. He attended a private school, Dulwich college, and
says it was a wonderful mix of colours and social classes (many of the boys had
won free scholarships). Farage calls it a perfect example of integration. Just
down the road, though, when he was 16, he witnessed an example of imperfect
integration - the Brixton riots terrified him. "It was the breakdown of law and
order. Actually, my school was used as the police HQ. I did think then if you
allow things to happen on too great a scale too quickly, it will lead to
problems, and to some extent we have seen that. Enoch touched on that."

When I ask him who his political hero is, he instantly cites Powell, the
rightwing Conservative who made the famous speech about immigration anticipating
"rivers of blood". "Enoch Powell was an extraordinary fellow. I admired him for
having the guts to talk about an issue that seemed to be to be really rather
important - immigration, society, how do we want to live in this country."

Farage didn't bother with university - he was an aspiring Thatcherite, desperate
to make his fortune. "It's all happening, buzzing, yuppy time. They're all
making a load of money. I've got to get in there. I can't wait till I'm 22, I'll
be an old man by then."

He became a metals trader then set up his own business. In his early 20s he had
a scare with testicular cancer but recovered. At 24, he was married and a
father.

Farage, now 45, anticipated a life of markets and golf, but in 1990 Britain
joined the European exchange rate mechanism, and he was never the same again. "I
immediately went into full rant mode." Three years later he became a founder
member of Ukip, in 1999 he was elected to the European parliament and in 2006 he
became the party's leader.

He looks at today's privileged Tories with disgust and says he cannot believe it
is the party he grew up with. "It's odd seeing a Conservative party in which
somebody like Norman Tebbit could rise as a party that's almost gone back to the
Macmillan era."

Tebbit recently suggested that we should not vote for the three major parties in
the European elections. Is he now a signed-up member of Ukip? "No. He's said
what he's said, which took some courage, but they haven't kicked him out, which
he wouldn't want. It was very helpful."

I ask Farage if Ukip has its equivalent of Tebbit's cricket test - in 1990
Tebbit suggested immigrants could not show loyalty to Britain till they
supported the England cricket team. Farage says that is outdated, and would
prefer to flip the question. He mentions the five black and Asian candidates who
have just stood for Ukip, and of whom he is inordinately proud. "They've all
said the same thing - "We made a conscious decision to come to this country
because we thought it had certain values and we're bringing our kids up to be
British."

How useful have these non-white candidates been to him?

"Well look, when a new political movement emerges that appears to be patriotic,
the assumption is that it must carry with it travellers who come from a pretty
extreme disposition." Because it's been true? "Yes, oh quite right, yes
absolutely. And I think to have people like this as candidates, I think we
almost don't need to comment on it."

But Ukip has not wholly escaped being tarred with the BNP brush. Last November,
former tennis player Buster Mottram tried to broker a deal between the two
parties. "They do it all he time," Farage says. " All the time. They try to give
the impression there's some level of communication going on between us knowing
if that gets out our reasonable middle-class supporters will run away in droves.
It's a deliberate tactic."

He stresses that Ukip and the BNP couldn't be more different - Ukip are
libertarian and would legalise pretty much everything, the BNP are a hang 'em
and flog 'em party. A vote for Ukip, he says, is a vote for flat income tax (and
no tax for those earning less than the minimum wage averaged over a year),
grammar schools, smoking, small government, and of course two fat fingers to
Europe. "Being totally intertwined with European partners, socially
economically, politically, makes no sense."

As it happens, Farage's own life could not be more intertwined with a European
partner. His second wife, Kirsten, a former banker who now helps with Ukip, is
German. I ask if their two young children are bilingual. "Isabelle is too young,
but Victoria is, yes. Very much so. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's great, that's fine.
You are not going to find some anti-foreigner little Englander."

Would Kirsten have been allowed to live here if he'd had his way on immigration?
"Yes, because she got a job here in the city working for a German bank. She
would have come on a work permit, of course." He doesn't mention what would have
happened when the permit ran out. Ukip's line on immigration is not as finely
honed as it might be - it seems to run along the lines of no more foreigners
unless they're EU outcasts, friends, wives or really clever/rich.

A word he uses time and again to describe politicians in the mainstream parties
is "ghastly", and he doesn't hold back on his fellow leaders. Gordon Brown?
"Dead man walking. Humourless. I don't like him." Nick Clegg? "Technocrat."
David Cameron? "He doesn't believe in a damn thing other than he wants the keys
to No 10."

Farage's mobile rings. He sounds thrilled. "Bloody marvellous! We're going to
get a recommendation from the Sun. From Kelvin (Mackenzie, the paper's
ex-editor). He's going to back us." How important is that? "Very. Because he's a
bloke who speaks straight and a lot of people read that column."

Does he think it's funny that Ukip will benefit from the expenses scandal? "They
won't vote for us on that basis. They'll vote because they agree with our
policies." What about his own £2m claim? "That's just cobblers. It's a misquote.
We don't get expenses as MEPs, we get fixed-sum allowances, and 75% of that has
been spent on the employment of staff."

But surely he has a responsibility to claim excessively just to show what a
corrupt system it is? He grins, like a wide-mouthed frog. "I know. Which I did
in the early days. I used the travel profit to back a bloke who was selling beef
on the bone, all sorts of things. They came down on me like a ton of bricks."

In 2006, it was Kirsten who came down heavily on him when the tabloids published
a story about his liaison with a woman called Liga from Latvia, claiming he
begged her "to get MaaSTRICHT" with him during sex. At the time, Farage admitted
to falling asleep at her house but nothing more. "Oh that," he says today. "It
was all a bit of an error." The indiscretions of late youth? "No, just sheer
stupidity."

Why have Ukip been so ridden with scandal? Inevitable, he says. "It always is
when you have a small organisation that is essentially a bottom-up party. You
will always get people who come in and fancy their chances of personal glory or
come in from other organisations to cause maximum trouble. Yes we've suffered
horribly with it, but we've won pretty much hands-down."

How has he dealt with corruption? "Ruthlessly." He makes a loud gesture of
washing his hands. "You're gone. Goodbye."

Meanwhile, head of communications and convicted fraudster Page arrives at the
pub to tell him it's time to go. And now Farage is merrily chatting to another
man. "Vote the right way," he says.

Who was that? "A friend's brother. Policeman. Anti-terrorist squad. Yep, he's
voting Ukip."

Page concurs. "This is a Scotland Yard pub, and I tell you what - the Yard is
voting Ukip."

Farage is certainly different from most British politicians. Who else would
happily admit to visiting lapdancing clubs? "I don't go to lapdancing clubs," he
protests for once. "I have been to lapdancing clubs. So what?" Why wouldn't
other leaders admit to it? "Because they don't want to be criticised - they're
living in this PC world and nobody must admit to being human. They're all purer
than pure. Well, I'm not."

So has Mrs Farage put her foot down and outlawed the lapdancers? He looks at me
disbelievingly, his face reddening, his pride hurt. "Noooooooooah. Noooooooooah
. 'Course not. 'Course not . I've been rather busy these last few years."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Saturday: Interview: Meet the Ukippers: Kilroy was here (but not for long)

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 225 words


* Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said in 2004 that he joined the women's rights
committee in the EU parliament because "I just don't think they clean behind the
fridge enough". In 2007, he complained that talk on the European women's
committee always gravitated towards rape and prostitution, saying, "None of them
are in danger of the first or could earn their living from the second."

* Joan Collins announced she was supporting Ukip in 2004 only to clarify that
she was merely a patron of the party - explaining that patrons "merely put their
name at the head of their paper" but don't necessarily vote for them.

* Ex-member Ashley Mote was charged with benefit fraud in 2004 before he had a
chance to take his seat as an MEP. The trial judge described him as "a truly
dishonest man". He claimed immunity on the grounds that he was an MEP, but was
imprisoned in 2007.

* TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk quit Ukip in 2005 after nine months, saying: "The
party is regarded by those outside as a joke. I am ashamed to be a member. I
cannot ask people to vote for it because it has no policies, no spokesmen, no
energy, no vision and no idea how Britain should be governed." He later referred
to some of the Ukip membership as "bloody rightwing, fascist nutters".

* In April, MEP Tom Wise was charged with false accounting and money laundering.
The case is yet to be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

It's the expenses, Mike

LENGTH: 920 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White tries to make sense of the erratic resignations from Gordon
Brown's government

FULL TEXT

Were you baffled yesterday by the erratic pattern of resignations from Gordon
Brown's government? So was I. In 30 years or so of watching this stuff, I have
never seen anything quite like it. Then a well-placed Labour heavyweight put me
right. "It's mostly about expenses, Mike."

Peter Oborne is also stressing the expenses component of the resignations -
including James Purnell's - on Radio 4's Week in Westminster today.

In other words, several of the key resignations, including cabinet departures
like that of Hazel Blears, are prompted by the need to clean up the government
and the knowledge that individual positions may become untenable - if they are
not so already. Brown has to clean things up - and be seen to do so.

That's obviously not so in all cases, as prudence requires me to point out.

Caroline Flint, whose Observer photo shoot - the picture on the front page of
today's Guardian - tells us most of what we need to know about her motives, left
because she didn't get the cabinet job she expected, sticking the stiletto into
Brown on the way out.

That's not just my view, by the way, it's shared by members of the Labour
sisterhood at Westminster, who are both angry and embarrassed by her 24-hour
U-turn from praising Brown to being savage about his unfeminist ways. Flint
forgets that the PM's clumsy - at best - treatment of women is matched by his
treatment of other groups, notably men.

John Hutton, who loved being defence secretary and is widely believed to have
been the unnamed Blairite who predicted that Gordon would be a " fucking awful
prime minister", is leaving to reclaim his private life. His second wife has
just had a baby, so I hear. He's an old dad again.

And so on. Each case is different. Work it out for yourself.

At the same time, the gossip is that Hutton and, possibly, others might have put
the boot into GB if Alan Johnson had given the signal that he seriously wants to
be the next PM. Of course, he didn't because he doesn't. He'll settle for
comparative calm at the home office.

Bad EU election results are unlikely to change Johnson's calculation.
Politicians take little notice when being accused of cowardice by journalists,
not least because fearless resignations on matters of principle are even rarer
in Fleet St. They do spot these things.

So Brown staggers on, wounded but defiant. The phantom army of rebels, who get a
disproportionately good show on the airwaves, won't give up yet and the media
will be reluctant to abandon its own meta-narrative that he is doomed.

"This isn't over... if he stumbles his enemies will move again," the BBC's Nick
Robinson told Radio 4 listeners this morning. Nick speaks for the nation, or at
the very least a slice of the north London media elite.

Up to a point, he's right. If Brown is weakened, so are his critics, as . But
it's not over yet. There again, Labour lost a lot of seats in Thursday's local
elections - vital to maintaining a grassroots network of activists. The base has
been hammered, morale is low.

But as clever , the Tories must be privately disappointed, worried even, with a
less than all-conquering performance.

The voting shares - not much emphasised in the "Brown Must Go" narrative - were
Conservatives 38%; Lib Dem 28%; Labour 23% and others (Nats, BNP, UKIP etc) 11%.
That compares with a 43:27:24;6% ratio a year ago. No two sets of results are
directly comparable, but you do notice that the Tories were 5% down, their votes
seeping off to fringe parties. Not brilliant and supportive of evidence ( as
noted here before) that David Cameron's looming premiership will not see
bonfires lit from hill to hill.

Brown's response has been to set up a chain of committees to tackle urgent
issues of the moment, proof that life imitates art, in this case Private Eye's
"Supreme Leader" column. But his critics are in a pickle too, with wavering
groups such as Compass not sure whether to unite behind the leader or go for
broke.

Why do all sorts of unlikely characters like Michael Meacher and Ken
Livingstone, old foes of Brown's, line up to support him? It might just be that
they prefer him to Alan Johnson, whom Livingstone certainly regards as a trade
union sell-out, very rightwing, an "uber-Blairite". It's unfair, but when was
politics fair?

During TV interviews from Sydney to Bogotá yesterday, I found myself using the
football and boardroom analogy. The Tories are ruthless champions of shareholder
value who sack their chairmen and CEOs when the firm's performance stumbles.

The Labour tribe is more like a football supporters' club. They may think the
team is crap, the manager rubbish, but they rally to him when outsiders want to
sack him, even if the outsiders are pushy Yanks who own the club.

So Brown may be the Alan Shearer of the moment. Relegation looms - oh dear,
there goes another lost home game - but he's their man. And he does have wily
Peter Mandelson as his chief assistant, No 3 in the pecking order (after Straw)
since yesterday.

What a turnup for the book! Brown and his minions spent years trying to destroy
Mandelson. Now they depend on him to survive.

That's the tribal secret the parochial Brownites didn't understand. For all his
little modernising ways, Mandelson is Labour. He sticks to his party through
thick and extremely thin.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A sign of Labour's weakness more than the Tories' strength;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1292 words


The electoral crisis currently facing the Labour Party was made manifest when
the local election ballot boxes were opened yesterday. But David Cameron
discovered that he had rather less to be triumphant about than he had hoped.
Rather, both of Britain's parties of government were served notice that the
smaller parties could well have stolen their thunder when the European votes are
counted tomorrow.

Labour's loss of power on all of the county councils that it was defending was
embarrassing enough. After all, the last time Labour failed to win Derbyshire
and Nottinghamshire was in 1977, an event that was followed two years later by
general election defeat. At least that whitewash had been widely anticipated.

What had not been expected, however, was that the party would turn in a
performance that looked even worse than the record low to which it sank in last
year's local elections. When projected into the equivalent of a national share
of the vote, Labour's performance was worth no more than 23 per cent, one point
down on last year.

Last year's dire performance induced a period of intense speculation about Mr
Brown's future. This year's results were published against the backdrop of
Labour MPs already openly arguing on the airwaves about whether Mr Brown should
stay or whether he should go. There thus seems little reason to believe that
Thursday's results will have done anything to persuade those MPs who have been
muttering and perhaps even plotting about Mr Brown's future to end their
discontent.

Two of the finer details of the results will give Labour particular reason for
concern. First, the party's vote fell rather more heavily than the nationwide
average in wards where it was previously relatively strong, including where it
was trying to defend the local seat against a Conservative challenge. Second,
the party also seemed to suffer most when the BNP did well locally.

In many respects the Conservatives appear to have plenty of reason to be
cheerful in the wake of Thursday's results. The party captured most of the
councils that had been in its sights. But that reflected Labour's weakness more
than it did the strength of the Conservative advance.

True, at 38 per cent, the party's projected national share of the vote was as
much as seven points above the equivalent figure for 2005, the year when nearly
all the seats being contested last Thursday were previously fought over. But
that represented a six-point drop on its performance in last year's local
elections.

Mr Cameron would have preferred not to have suffered such an apparent loss of
momentum at this stage in the parliament. It suggests the Tories' poll lead
still reflects disillusion with Labour as much as enthusiasm for the
Conservative alternative. Certainly some potential Conservative votes seem to
have been attracted away by Ukip.

Equally, Nick Clegg has less progress to celebrate than he might have liked. At
28 per cent of the projected national vote the Liberal Democrats was up on the
25 per cent it secured last year. Even so, it was still no better than its local
performance in 2005. With the Tories well up on their 2005 vote, it meant the
Liberal Democrats were bound to lose the councils it was defending against a
Conservative challenge, Devon and Somerset.

These two losses were, though, compensated by the party's rather unexpected
capture of Bristol. Here the party was in a position to profit from the sharp
decline in Labour support. In fact the Liberal Democrat vote across the city as
a whole actually fell a point as compared with 2005.

The main reason why none of the big three had reason for unalloyed joy was the
smaller parties' performance. It was much the same as in 2004, when local
elections were last held on the same day as a European poll.

According to the sample of detailed ward results collected by the BBC, on
average Ukip won no less than 15 per cent of the vote in those wards where they
stood, while the Greens won 12 per cent and the BNP 10 per cent. All three
managed to win a county council seat for the first time. And for Ukip and the
Greens, at least, the figures are better than in the local election five years
ago.

But if non-Westminster parties did relatively well, as had been expected in the
wake of the expenses scandal, there was little sign of the anticipated mass
abstention from the ballot box. Turnout was 38 per cent, similar to the the last
time this round of local elections were last held independently of a general
election, in 1993.

If some were dissuaded from voting by the expenses scandal, others felt
impelled. Whatever damage has been inflicted on the parties, perhaps the health
of Britain's democracy has not been undermined by recent events to the degree
many have feared.

Yesterday's results were, of course, the first act of a two-part drama. The
curtain rises again on Sunday when the European election results are declared.
Perhaps what was most striking of all about the BBC's local results projection
was its similarity to the equivalent projection in 2004.

Both the Conservative rating of 38 per cent and the Liberal Democrat score of 28
per cent are exactly the same as in 2004. That suggests the Conservatives are
unlikely to do significantly better than the very modest 27 per cent they won in
the European poll five years ago. Equally, the Liberal Democrats could once
again be struggling to stay ahead of Ukip.

However there is one difference between the local election outcome this year and
that in 2004 - Labour's projected vote is down by three points. If Labour's vote
has fallen in similar vein in the European ballot boxes, it could well be
struggling to stay above the 20 per cent mark. Mr Brown's troubles may not be
over yet.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

Local elections

The results

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE

LD 11 Con 46

Con, no change.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE

Green 1 Vacant 1 Lab 2 LD 23 Con 42

Con, no change.

CUMBRIA

LD 16 Lab 24 Con 38 Ind 6

NOC no change.

DERBYSHIRE

Ind 1 Vacant 1 Lab 21 Con 33 LD 8

Con, gain from Lab.

DEVON

Green 1 LD 14 Ind 2 Lab 4 Con 41

Con, gain from LD.

DORSET

Ind 1 LD 16 Con 28

Con, no change.

EAST SUSSEX

LD 13 Con 29 Ind 3 Lab 4

Con, no change.

ESSEX

Lab 1 LD 12 Ind 2 Con 60

Con, no change.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE

Green 1 LD 13 Ind 3 Lab 4 Con 42

Con, no change.

HAMPSHIRE

Ind 1 Lab 1 LD 25 Con 51

Con, no change.

HERTFORDSHIRE

BNP 1 Green 1 LD 17 Lab 3 Con 55

Con, no change.

KENT

R 1 Lab 2 LD 7 Con 74

Con, no change.

LANCASHIRE

BNP 1 Toad 1 LD 10 Lab 16 Green 2 Ind 3

Con 51

Con, gain from NOC.

LEICESTERSHIRE

BNP 1 LD 14 Con 36 Lab 4

Con, no change.

LINCOLNSHIRE

Boston 1 Lab 4 LD 5 Con 60 Ind 7

Con, no change.

NORFOLK

UKIP 1 LD 13 Lab 3 Con 60 Green 7

Con, no change.

NORTH YORKSHIRE

Lab 1 Lib 1 Ind 11 LD 11 Con 48

Con, no change.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE

Ind 2 Con 56 Lab 6 LD 9

Con, no change.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE

UKIP 1 Lab 13 Con 35 Ind 9 LD 9

Con, gain from Lab.

OXFORDSHIRE

Ind 1 LD 10 Green 2 Con 52 Lab 9

Con, no change.

SOMERSET

Lab 2 LD 21 Con 35

Con, gain from NOC.

STAFFORDSHIRE

Ind 2 Lab 3 LD 4 UKIP 4 Con 49

Con, gain from Lab.

SURREY

Ind 1 Lab 1 LD 13 Con 56 R 9

Con, no change.

WARWICKSHIRE

Ind 1 Lab 10 LD 12 Con 39

Con, gain from NOC.

WEST SUSSEX

Boundary change

Lab 2 LD 21 Con 48

Con, no change.

WORCESTERSHIRE

Lib 1 R 1 Ind CHC 2 Lab 3 Con 42 LD 8

Con, no change.

BEDFORD*

LD 13 Ind 7 Lab 7 Con 9

No overall control.

BRISTOL*

LD 36 Con 17 Lab 16 Green 1

LD, gain from NOC.

CENTRAL BEDFORDSHIRE*

Ind 1 LD 11 Con 54

Con, control new council.

CORNWALL*

Meb Ker 3 Ind 32 LD 38 Con 50

No overall control.

ISLE OF WIGHT*

Boundary change

Lab 1 Ind 10 Con 24 LD 5

Con, no change.

SHROPSHIRE*

LD 11 Ind 2 Con 54 Lab 7

Con, control new council.

WILTSHIRE*

Ind 10 Lab 2 LD 24 Con 62

Con, control new council.

All results returned by 11pm

*Denotes unitary authority

FOR RESULTS FROM THE EUROPEAN ELECTIONS SEE MONDAY'S INDEPENDENT

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Rebels put the revolution on hold - for now;
Labour's insurgents plan to strike again after European poll results The plot

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 893 words


FOR A FLEETING moment, as news of James Purnell's resignation broke on Thursday
night, rebel ringleaders had dared to believe their time had come.

After watching the News at Ten, one leading dissident predicted then that a
stream of Cabinet members would follow the Work and Pensions Secretary out the
door today. Would it be Alan Johnson? David Miliband? Andy Burnham? John Hutton?

But the exodus of ministerial heavyweights never materialised and last night
even the Prime Minister's bitterest enemies admitted the Cabinet reshuffle had
bought him more time.

The rebels are now holding their fire until Monday when MPs return to
Westminster after tomorrow's declaration of the European election results, in
which Labour is universally expected to have performed dismally.

The expected rout in the polls - the party could limp in fourth behind the UK
Independence Party in the popular vote - will be used by the rebels in an
attempt to win support for a "Gordon must go" letter.

Some are also threatening to demand his resignation when the Prime Minister
addresses the Parliamentary Labour Party meeting on Monday, while former Cabinet
Ministers Alan Milburn and Charles Clarke are expected to speak against Mr Brown
in two days' time.

Arch-Blairite Stephen Byers, the former Transport Secretary, speaking publicly
for the first time about the leadership crisis, said that Monday could make or
break Mr Brown's fortunes.

"I think on Monday Labour MPs will be considering a very important question - is
Gordon Brown a winner or is Gordon Brown a loser? Can Gordon Brown lead Labour
to an election victory when the general election is called or will he lead us to
defeat?"

The plotters aim to spend much of the weekend assessing exact levels of support.
They insist their plan remains to send a letter on Monday evening demanding Mr
Brown's resignation if they can persuade 50 MPs to go public. One admitted it
was a high hurdle to clear and added: "The letter will not be sent if we get
45."

One key figure in the rebellion claimed: "People from the centre of the party
are firming up against Brown. Within the backbenches there's a majority of
opposition to him." But he admitted: "The question is whether that can be
focused."

Another said: "Many Labour MPs are convinced Gordon must go. He may have bought
some time... but we will resume the fight on Monday."

The MP insisted they had received messages of support from scores of defeated
Labour councillors who blamed their defeat on Gordon Brown's huge unpopularity
with voters. But they have been reminded over the last 36 hours of the ferocity
and determination of the team around Gordon Brown, with rumours circulating of
dissidents falling victim to No 10's "black arts".

One dissident MP has been warned that there were as yet undisclosed embarrassing
mistakes in his expenses claims; others report being variously dismissed as
"maverick", "Blairite" and "hard-Left" by Brown loyalists.

Barry Sheerman, a veteran MP and select committee chairman who has called for a
secret vote on Mr Brown's leadership, said senior members of his Huddersfield
constituency party had been contacted by No 10 urging them to hold a meeting
with the MP to discuss his remarks.

Two other MPs claimed they had been falsely named as plotters by Downing Street
in an attempt to "smoke out" the conspirators. A briefing note sent yesterday to
MPs by Labour HQ on how to answer difficult questions gives the go-ahead for
them to pour scorn over James Purnell. It insists the "whole Cabinet" found his
resignation "surprising and disappointing" and the "last thing they would have
wanted to see".

It also encourages them to portray the outgoing Work and Pensions Secretary as
politically naive by describing him as "still in the early stages of his
career".

The rebellion fizzled rather that fizzed as a handful of backbenchers went
public with their private criticism of Mr Brown. The Newcastle-under-Lyme MP,
Paul Farrelly, said: "There have been too many mistakes and misjudgement over
the last two years. In the interests of the country and the Labour party, I
think Gordon must really consider his position."

Meg Munn, a former Foreign Office Minister, said: "He's done a great job on the
economy, but other issues are not being put across well. We are not seeing the
sort of leadership which I think this country now needs." She was followed by
veteran left-winger Mark Fisher who protested: "There is no stability in the
Government and the time is right for him to stand down."

Paul Flynn, the Newport West MP, turned to his blog to plead for Mr Brown to bow
out. He wrote: "For the sake of the millions who benefit from the work of the
Labour Party in government, we must select a new national leader."

Downing Street could draw comfort from the apparently random pattern of attacks
on Mr Brown's leadership. They were also relieved that a new Cabinet was in
place by the end of the day, locking potential troublemakers in place.

While Gordon Brown travels today to Normandy for the D-Day commemorations, his
allies are preparing to contact those backbenchers they suspect are wavering in
their support for the Prime Minister.

Their key message to potential dissenters will be that a change of leader now
will lead to unstoppable pressure for a general election - and the
near-certainty that they will lose their seats in a Labour meltdown.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Tories win control of seven councils but vote hit by expenses backlash

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 676 words


The Conservatives were the undisputed winners of the local election results,
wresting several councils from Labour and Liberal Democrat control. But their
celebrations were muted as the party only picked up an estimated 38 per cent of
the vote - below the proportion it would need for a convincing victory at the
next general election. David Cameron's party will now anxiously wait to see the
level of its support in the face of a challenge by the UK Independence Party in
the European election results being declared tomorrow.

The Tories seized control of Derbyshire, Lancashire, Staffordshire,
Nottinghamshire, Somerset, Warwickshire and Shropshire.

They were particularly heartened by the success in Lancashire, where they
captured 21 seats from Labour, because there are 10 marginal parliamentary seats
in the county. The success in Derbyshire - once regarded as a bastion of
left-wing socialist rule - was also remarkable.

The Conservatives looked set to take control of North Tyneside council after
their candidate was elected Mayor. The party also evicted the Liberal Democrats
from power in their Devon and Somerset heartlands and won 54 of the 66 seats in
the new unitary council of Central Bedfordshire.

The party said the victories in the North, Midlands and the South-west proved
its appeal was spreading to all parts of England. Mr Cameron said: "You can see
the Conservative Party strong, united and positive, winning in every part of our
country. Across the country what's remarkable about these figures and what
shines out is it's the Conservative Party winning in every part of the country."

Last night, a BBC projection put the Tories on 38 per cent of the vote, six
points down since last year. The Liberal Democrats were up three to 28 per cent
and Labour on 23 per cent, a further drop of one point on a historic low last
year. The other parties attracted 11 per cent support, a rise of four points,
and suggesting all the main parties faced a backlash from the Commons expenses
scandal. However, the British National Party (BNP) only made a modest
breakthrough yesterday.

Repeated in a general election, the figures would translate into a narrow
overall Commons majority of about 20 for David Cameron - barely enough to
guarantee five years of stable government. Tory strategists insisted they were
happy with the performance, arguing they had still achieved a nine-point swing
from Labour and were polling strongly in target areas.

The strong support in the key battlegrounds suggests the tactic masterminded by
Lord Ashcroft, its deputy chairman, of pouring resources into marginal seats is
paying off. They also pointed out that Labour "lost" the 2004 local elections
and went on to win the general election the following year under Tony Blair.
They acknowledged, however, that the Commons expenses scandal had some impact on
their support with some voters declaring a "plague on all your houses".

Despite their setbacks in the South-west, the Liberal Democrats declared
themselves satisfied that they had consolidated their position as the second
party in local government. Their biggest success was in Bristol where they took
control of the city council after Labour lost eight seats - four to the Liberal
Democrats and four to the Tories.

The Liberal Democrats already control three other major cities - Liverpool,
Newcastle and Sheffield - and are in power-sharing coalitions in Leeds and
Birmingham. Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, hailed the beginning of a
"complete transformation of city politics" as his party defeated Labour in its
former urban strongholds.

The BNP gained its first county councillors, winning its Burnley stronghold in
Lancashire, as well as seats in Leicestershire and Hertfordshire. But it failed
to pick up any in Cumbria where it mounted a concerted drive for votes before
polling day.

The English Democrats, who campaign for an English parliament, scored a surprise
victory in the elections to become Mayor of Doncaster.

Local elections - analysis News, pages 8&9

European elections World News, page 29

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

COUNCILLED OUT!;
LABOUR'S 4 COUNTY HALLS GO: LOSS TO LOONIES: VOTE DIPS TO 23%

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 817 words


LABOUR has been wiped off the county council map - as it lost control of its
last four remaining strongholds.

The party was annihilated by the Tories in its former heartlands of
Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Lancashire and Nottinghamshire.

Labour even finished last in a seat in St Ives, Cambs - behind the Monster
Raving Loony Party.

The humiliating results rounded off a week of misery for under-pressure Gordon
Brown - and point to Labour being massacred at the next election.

A BBC projection put the party's share of the national vote at just 23% -
trailing the Lib Dems on 28 and the Tories on 38.

And Sky News experts said the results from 550 council seats suggested David
Cameron would be swept into No.10 with 337 MPs, reducing Labour to a rump of
217.

Labour activists at counts across the country reeled in despair.

But party chairman Harriet Harman merely called the wipeout "disappointing" as
she acknowledged the party had borne the brunt of public outrage over MPs'
expenses.

Olympics minister Tessa Jowell went further as she admitted: "These are very bad
results.

"I am sorry for all those people who have lost their seats. This has been a
pretty awful set of elections."

However, local Labour activists furiously blamed the national party for causing
the vote collapse.

Derbyshire county council Labour leader John Williams stormed: "I feel let down
badly and I feel very sorry for my colleagues who have lost their seats. I think
the national party has lost us the election. If you look at our track record
it's difficult to see why people would vote against us."

Helen Holland, leader of Bristol's Labour group - who saw the Lib Dems win -
added: "Good councillors have lost their seats for reasons outside their
control."

She said the avalanche of cabinet resignations and in-fighting had "undermined
good work that councillors have done".

Labour had controlled Derbyshire since 1981. But an 11.8% swing to the Tories
saw them win 19 seats.

Tory group leader Andrew Lewer claimed it showed Labour was "in terminal
decline".

He crowed: "If they can't hold on here they can't hold on anywhere. It's an
extremely important moment in local government history.

"I put it down to people wanting a change after 28 years from the local
perspective. Nationally, the expenses crisis caused us all serious problems but
the focus has shifted from that to the cabinet meltdown." In Lancashire - also
Labour-controlled since 1981 - the party lost 17 seats, including one to the
BNP.

The carnage saw Labour's vote plummet from 37% to 25% as the Conservatives
gained control.

Meanwhile, in Staffordshire, Labour had picked up just TWO of the 62 seats
declared by yesterday evening as it surrendered power to the Tories.

Labour's trouncing is also expected to see them lose the mayoral seat of North
Tyneside and also hammered in key counties such as Lincolnshire.

But summing up its night of abject embarrassment was the result from St Ives,
Cambs - won by the Tories but where Labour finished last behind the Monster
Raving Loony Party.

The fringe party's Lord Toby Jug finished fifth out of seven candidates.

Lord Jug said: "It is a Loony landslide.

Democratic loonyism has arrived."

Around the country, Tory gains were not solely at Labour's expense.

David Cameron's party took control of Devon and Somerset in a straight fight
with the Lib Dems. The only consolation for Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg was
picking up Bristol.

The Tories said the results showed Mr Cameron's appeal was not confined to the
south of England. He said: "You can see the Conservative party strong, united
and positive, winning in every part of our country."

Party chairman Eric Pickles said the Tory vote held up while Labour supporters
had stayed at home or defected.

But Labour's former local government minister John Healey, warned against
reading too much into the council results.

He said: "It was always going to be very tough for Labour in local council
elections. This is Tory England at the ballot box."

The BNP failed to make their hopedfor advance. With votes still being counted,
the far-right party had won just two seats - the one in Lancashire and another
in Leicestershire.

A spokesman for anti-racism campaign group Searchlight said: "It's clear that
the great BNP breakthrough has not materialised. Where voters are turning away
from the major parties, they are moving to UKIP and the Greens rather than the
extremists."The national Party Pickles held party lost us the at election.. I
feel let down and sorry for colleagues who too lost their seats He going Labour
elections. JOHN WILLIAMSBLUE BRITAIN Councils Councillors Party Total Net
+/Total Net +/- Conservative 29 +7 1330 +217 LiberaDemocrat 1 -1 439 -8 Labour 0
-4 159 -250 Independents 0 0 91 +4 Residents Association 0 0 16 +6 Green 00 9 +2
UK Independence Party 00 6 +6 Mebyon Kernow 00 3 0 Liberal 00 2 0 British
National Party 00 2 +2 Others 0 0 28 13 No Overall Control 3-2

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The POLL-AXED Lancashire Labour members look bewildered party lost READ
'EM AND WEEP Lancashire Labour activist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

COUNCILLED OUT!;
LABOUR'S 4 COUNTY HALLS GO

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 728 words


LABOUR has been wiped off the county council map - as it lost control of its
last four remaining strongholds.

The party was annihilated by the Tories in its former heartlands of
Staffordshire, Derbyshire and Lancashire while Nottinghamshire went to no
overall control.

Labour even finished last in a seat in St Ives, Cambs - behind the Monster
Raving Loony Party.

The humiliating results rounded off a week of misery for under-pressure Gordon
Brown - and point to Labour being massacred at the next election.

A BBC projection put the party's share of the national vote at just 23% -
trailing the Lib Dems on 28 and the Tories on 38.

And Sky News experts said the results from 550 council seats suggested David
Cameron would be swept into No.10 with 337 MPs, reducing Labour to a rump of
217.

Labour activists at counts across the country reeled in despair.

But party chairman Harriet Harman merely called the wipeout "disappointing" as
she acknowledged the party had borne the brunt of public outrage over MPs'
expenses.

Olympics minister Tessa Jowell went further as she admitted: "These are very bad
results.

"I am sorry for all those people who have lost their seats. This has been a
pretty awful set of elections."

However, local Labour activists furiously blamed the national party for causing
the vote collapse.

Derbyshire county council Labour leader John Williams stormed: "I feel let down
badly and I feel very sorry for my colleagues who have lost | their seats. I
think the national party has lost us the election. If you look at our track
record it's difficult to see why people would vote against us."

Helen Holland, leader of Bristol's Labour group - who saw the Lib Dems win -
added: "Good councillors have lost their seats for reasons outside their
control."

She said the avalanche of cabinet resignations and in-fighting had "undermined
good work that councillors have done".

Labour had controlled Derbyshire since 1981. But an 11.8% swing to the Tories
saw them win 19 seats.

Tory group leader Andrew Lewer claimed it showed Labour was "in terminal
decline".

He crowed: "If they can't hold on here they can't hold on anywhere. It's an
extremely important moment in local government history.

"I put it down to people wanting a change after 28 years from the local
perspective. Nationally, the expenses crisis caused us all serious problems but
the focus has shifted from that to the cabinet meltdown." In Lancashire - also
Labour-controlled since 1981 - the party lost 17 seats, including one to the
BNP.

The carnage saw Labour's vote plummet from 37% to 25% as the Conservatives
gained control.

Meanwhile, in Staffordshire, Labour had picked up just TWO of the 62 seats
declared by yesterday evening as it surrendered power to the Tories.

Labour's trouncing is also expected to see them lose the mayoral seat of North
Tyneside and also hammered in key counties such as Lincolnshire. But summing up
its night of abject embarrassment was the result from St Ives, Cambs - won by
the Tories but where Labour finished last behind the Monster Raving Loony Party.

The fringe party's Lord Toby Jug finished fifth out of seven candidates.

Around the country, Tory gains were not solely at Labour's expense.

David Cameron's party took control of Devon and Somerset in a straight fight
with the Lib Dems. The only consolation for Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg was
picking up Bristol.

The Tories said the results showed Mr Cameron's appeal was not confined to the
south of England.

He said: "You can see the Conservative party strong, united and positive,
winning in every part of our country."

Party chairman Eric Pickles said the Tory vote held up while Labour supporters
had either stayed at home or defected.

But Labour's former local government minister John Healey, warned against
reading too much into the council results.

He said: "It was always going to be very tough for Labour in local council
elections. This is Tory England at the ballot box." The BNP failed to make their
hopedfor advance. With votes still being counted, the far-right party had won
just two seats - the one in Lancashire and another in Leicestershire.

A spokesman for anti-racism campaign group Searchlight said: "It's clear that
the great BNP breakthrough has not materialised.

"Where voters are turning away from the major parties it's clear that they are
moving to UKIP and the Greens rather than the extremists."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLL-AXED Lancashire Labour members look bewildered READ 'EM AND WEEP
Lancashire Labour activist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Features - New Labour is heading for the rocks;
Policies without principle have handed the far-right a golden opportunity, says
John Haylett

LENGTH: 813 words


Arthur Conan Doyle's fictional detective Sherlock Holmes once identified a guard
dog that didn't bark as an important clue in unmasking a criminal, pointing out
that its failure to bark showed that it knew and was not alarmed by an intruder.

But what explains the quasi-total silence of Britain's trade union movement over
this week's European Union and English local elections?

Apart from a call by UNISON general secretary Dave Prentis for members to vote
to frustrate the British National Party, the leading echelons of Britain's trade
unions kept their counsel.

In so doing, their silence was eloquent testimony to a truly criminal act - the
dissipation of working people's hopes just 12 years after Labour took office
with an undreamed of parliamentary majority and a mandate to pursue social
justice after 18 years of Tory corruption and greed.

Some half-hearted yet welcome reforms from the first Labour government aside,
the Blair and Brown administrations have mirrored the Tories' complacency,
self-enrichment and rotting from the head down.

Union leaders will not speak out openly, but they know that their memberships
are in open revolt against the government.

Current public perception of MPs is on a par with journalists, estate agents and
the rogues unmasked on TV shows like Cowboy Builders.

Deepest scorn is the response to pathetic pleas of "I've done nothing wrong,"
"within the rules" or "administrative error." And that scorn, unfortunately, has
even been extended to honest, hard-working MPs.

It is galling to see multimillionaire Tory leader David Cameron, the man who
billed the rest of us for clearing the wisteria from the chimneys of his country
pile, posing as Mr Clean.

No less to see UKIP, some of whose MEPs know more about gravy trains than Bisto,
and the racist BNP being treated by the media as serious commentators on the
parlous state of British politics today.

"Don't be beastly to the nazis" was the electronic media's apparent watchword.
Why was BNP fuehrer Nick Griffin not constantly taxed about the views of his
South-West list candidate Barry Bennett?

This adorable specimen commented: "Whatever's good enough for Hitler is good
enough for me. God rest his soul."

Yet the BNP was allowed to include images of Spitfires in its party election
broadcast as background to Griffin mimicking Winston Churchill's "blood, toil,
tears and sweat" speech and urging a new Battle of Britain to tackle the usual
list of scapegoats.

But when the No2EU election broadcast referred to the BNP being led by nazi
admirers, showing BNP founder John Tyndall in paramilitary uniform in front of a
picture of Hitler and the swastika flag, Channel 5 led other stations in
demanding that the film be reshot with this reference removed on the ludicrous
grounds that it couldn't be substantiated.

And the TV stations justified their blanking of No2EU by its having had no MEPs
elected.

How could it have? No2EU was only set up earlier this year. The same lack of
MEPs was true of the BNP, but its fascists in suits were welcomed into TV
studios as the media-endorsed acceptable voice of protest.

Gordon Brown made one brief reference to "Holocaust-denying nazi sympathisers."
But he ignored his own government's contribution to the growth of the BNP - not
simply feeding working-class discontent through a big-business agenda but also
conferring respectability on the racists by attacking the same scapegoats and
adopting BNP propaganda about British jobs for British workers.

This is a triangulation policy similar to that adopted by Blair, tacking towards
Tory taxation and privatisation to wrong-foot the opposition.

We now see, as the Morning Star predicted, the logical conclusion of such
unprincipled and anti-working-class policies - a government all at sea,
leaderless, rudderless and with assorted rats launching themselves from the
rigging, either in a vain bid for personal survival or, Blears-style, in a
childish, self-indulgent tantrum.

Brown has no answer other than going through his steady-as-she-sinks motions,
setting up a meaningless National Democratic Council to recommend "quite major
and surgical constitutional changes" some time in the future. He is steering
Labour's flagship onto the rocks of a Tory electoral victory, which will bring
no joy to Britain's workers.

Their representatives, the trade union movement, have a choice. They can either
continue throwing money at new Labour while Brown or whoever steams on
relentlessly to disaster. Or they can come to terms with reality and accept that
this way lies madness and that a new direction is inescapable, such as that
outlined in the People's Charter for Change.

The Labour Party no longer has any democratic structures for changing policy, so
the trade unions will need to adopt a more direct approach - change the party's
course and leadership or find someone else to fund your voyage to oblivion.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

VICTORIES;
BROWN POLL NIGHTMARE + 200 Lab councillors get boot + Cameron would be PM + Eng
Dem elected mayor + But BNP get seat +

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


LABOUR lost all four of its county councils as voters handed victory to the
Tories.

The party's share of the polling slumped to just 23 per cent - 15 points behind
the Conservatives.

By early evening, more than 200 Labour councillors had been kicked out.

Meanwhile David Cameron's troops grabbed control of a string of councils as huge
swathes of the country turned blue.

But the Tory leader will be concerned his party's projected share of the vote -
38 per cent - is down six points compared to last year's local polls.

The Liberal Democrats were on 28 per cent - up three points on last year.

On a torrid day, Labour was swept from its last four county councils -
Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Lancashire and Staffordshire.

After 28 YEARS in power in Derbyshire, Labour lost 16 seats. That left the
Tories, who won 19, to take control.

The meltdown was even worse in the red rose county of Lancashire. Labour there
lost a staggering 25 seats, while the Tories took control by winning 18 seats.

Smaller parties also celebrated gains. The far-right BNP won its first-ever
county council seat in Lancashire's Burnley ward.

And the littleknown English Democrats - against mass immigration - snatched
victory in the mayoral election in Doncaster, South Yorks.

The minor parties, including UKIP and the Green Party, were hoping to make more
impact in the Euro elections, where the protest vote is more likely to have
effect.

Labour's support also collapsed in Staffs and Notts.

Furious

The picture was equally bleak across the rest of the country.

Labour lost a third of its Bristol seats and could not even win ONE on the new
Central Bedfordshire council.

The Tories enjoyed a day of victories over Labour, also snatching control of
Somer-seand Devon from the Lib Dems. Mr Cameron - who would be PM if voting went
the same way at a general election - declared: "Across the country what's
remarkable about these figures and what shines out is it's the Conservative
Party winning in every part of the country."

Labour's deputy leader Harriet Harman said: "I think that we're all facing
disappointment in these results in the Labour Party."

Former Deputy PM John Prescott was furious at her and party election
co-ordinator Douglas Alexander, blaming them for a "non-campaign".

He said they "lacked the will to fight" and had been "resigned to defeat".

Prezza said activists across the country had complained there was "no message,
no campaign and no leadership from the party".

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Joy ... Mr Cameron
Grim oop North ... Labour's Burnley candidate loses to BNP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

SunTalk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 60 words


WHAT a week for SunTalk - and for politics. We had Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg,
pictured, and Shadow Chancellor George Osborne in the studio. Jack Straw got a
Gaunty grilling and the Greens, UKIP and even David Van Day joined the election
fun. Plus there were all your Sun favourites. Be sure to Listen Again at thesun.
co.uk/suntalk while you enjoy the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 6, 2009 Saturday 8:12 PM GMT

Doncaster shows there is a demand for a real conservative party

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 438 words


Amid the map showing England as a sea of blue after Thursday's election there
was a small island of red in south Yorkshire - but it wasn't the taxpayer's
blood-red of the Labour party but that of the English Democrats, who won the
mayoral election in Doncaster.

The English Democrats, for those not up-to-date on the centre-right fringe group
scene, are a micro-party along similar political lines to UKIP, except that
firstly their focus is on England rather than the UK, and secondly their
collective membership could fit in a small country pub. But their man, Peter
Davies, is the new mayor of Doncaster, having beaten Labour, the Tories and a
Lib Dem-backed independent.

This, I think, was the big seismic event of the local elections, not the Tory
takeover of Lancashire. Davies campaigned on a strong social conservative
platform and pulled off the biggest surprise since that man in the monkey suit
was elected in Hartlepool. In fact, more so.

And this report from the Yorkshire Post shows just why he won.

Mr Davies, a former religious education teacher whose son Philip is the
Conservative MP for Shipley, campaigned on reducing the mayor's salary from
62,000 to 30,000 and cutting the number of Doncaster councillors from 63 to 21.

But his policies also include bringing in harsher punishment for "young thugs";
introducing zero-tolerance for anti-social behaviour; stopping translation
services for immigrants; and scrapping "politically correct non-jobs and
encouraging the former employees to seek meaningful employment".

What's not to like? (Incidentally, 62,000? The leader of my council, Haringey,
Doncaster's main rival for the title of Britain's worst council, is on over
166,000.)

I've long thought there's a vacuum out there which a genuinely socially
conservative, anti-PC, anti-mass immigration but also anti-fascist and
pro-liberty party will eventually fill. A party that accepts Englishmen come in
various colours but also that there must be limits to how many, and without
being scared of the racism card being played. UKIP are the closest thing at the
moment but they're essentially a single-issue party with a median age of about
85; I'm not sure the English Democrats are, either - their basic plan, to create
an English first minister and mini-government within the UK, is effectively
unworkable.

It will all depend on how David Cameron's government works out. If they fail to
take the lesson here and turn out to be merely Old Etonian liberals who are only
"conservative" when it comes to helping the rich avoid tax, then, who knows,
Doncaster could be the start of a conservative counter-cultural revolution.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Labour is wiped out in the shires;
Tories celebrate in the North and the South West

BYLINE: Jill Sherman ; Russell Jenkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1199 words


Gordon Brown was dealt another huge blow last night when Labour lost all its
remaining county councils in its worst local election results.

Counties turned from red to blue in quick succession as the Labour vote
collapsed in its heartlands. Hundreds of councillors lost their seats and their
share of the vote slumped to 23 per cent.

Angry Labour councillors blamed their defeats on the Government's difficulties
and the MPs' expenses scandal as Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and
Lancashire slid from Labour control into the Tories' clutches.

Most of those counties had been held by Labour for nearly 30 years. Labour
parliamentary seats in the North and North West look suddenly more vulnerable.

With results still pouring in yesterday evening, Labour had lost more than 240
councillors and was at risk of disappearing entirely in some southern counties.

The Tories were delighted by their strong performance in Labour's strongholds
and by seeing off the Liberal Democrats in the South West. By gaining Somerset
and Devon from them, the Conservatives made big advances in areas where the Lib
Dems have many of their Westminster seats.

"Labour have been wiped off the electoral map in key battleground areas," Eric
Pickles, the Tory chairman, said as his party looked set to win well over 250
seats. "We now have a lame-duck Prime Minister running a lame-duck Government.
The country clearly wants change and the only way that can be delivered is
through the general election."

Mr Brown admitted that the results were appalling for his party. "The elections
yesterday were a painful defeat for Labour. Too many good people doing so much
good for their communities and their constituencies have lost through no fault
of their own," he said.

The Liberal Democrats, who also lost more seats than they gained, admitted that
they had had a mixed day. The party was pleased it took Bristol, a unitary
authority, from no overall control and that it gained 28 per cent of the vote.

The share of the vote for the two other parties was down from last year's
council elections. Labour dropped to an historic low of 23 per cent, 1
percentage point lower than last year, while the Tories fell by 5 percentage
points from a 43 per cent share to 38. Tony Travers, a local government expert
at the London School of Economics, suggested that the Tories would have to do
considerably better at a general election to get a convincing majority.

The Tories' targeting of seats they needed to win, such as those in the South
West and the northern counties, suggests that the party has at last got enough
activists where it needs to make breakthroughs. Even now it still has no
councillors in Newcastle or Liverpool.

A widespread protest vote against all three main parties led to strong showings
by the Greens and the UK Independence Party, which picked up councillors and a
higher share of the vote. The BNP failed to get a single seat in Essex, where
they fielded candidates in all 75 seats, but gained a handful in the North and
the Midlands.

There was a huge cheer from jubilant Conservatives in Derbyshire as the last of
64 constituencies, Glossop South, was finally coloured in blue, giving them
victory by the narrowest of margins.

Andrew Lewer, the new council leader, and John Williams, the vanquished Labour
group leader, put the result down to the Labour Government's "meltdown" on the
national stage. Mr Williams pointed the finger at the former Communities
Secretary. "The example set by Hazel Blears was an absolute disgrace and she
should be expelled from the party, in my view. Her resignation was disastrous,"
he said.

"The continuing saga over MPs' expenses destroyed our chances. I only hope that
Gordon Brown can steady the ship with the Cabinet reshuffle but it comes too
late for us.

"A lot of excellent Labour councillors have lost their seats through no fault of
their own." In Burnley, Lancashire, which fell to the Tories, Tony Martin, who
had been a Labour councillor for 20 years, said: "I am devastated that I lost my
seat and ended up coming third."

Online

Interactive map of full results timesonline.co.uk/ elections 'If they can't hold
here, they can't anywhere'

Behind the story Russell Jenkins

The Tory party passed the supreme test of its electoral virility in the shires
yesterday, wresting Derbyshire County Council from Labour's grip after almost
three decades.

There was a huge cheer from Conservatives as the last of 64 seats, Glossop
South, was coloured blue, giving them victory by the narrowest of margins.

Both Andrew Lewer, the new council leader, and John Williams, the vanquished
leader of the Labour group, put the result down to the Government's "meltdown".

Mr Williams, who is generally acknowledged to have run an efficient
administration, said: "The example set by Hazel Blears was an absolute disgrace
and she should be expelled from the party in my view. Her resignation was
disastrous.

"The continuing saga over MPs' expenses destroyed our chances. I only hope that
Gordon Brown can steady the ship with the Cabinet reshuffle but it comes too
late for us.

"A lot of excellent Labour councillors have lost their seats through no fault of
their own. If this had been down to our record locally, with the lowest council
tax of any shire in the country, then we would have won easily."

Derbyshire spans 65 miles across, from the ribbon development of Chesterfield
and Bolsover to the undulating countryside of the Derbyshire Dales and the High
Peak to the west.

Yesterday the blue that usually forms a swath down the eastern side of the
county pushed the red of Labour into a northeastern redoubt.

Labour has held sway in the castellated County Hall in Matlock for 28 years. It
was one of only four remaining Labour county councils - and the one with the
largest majority.

The party's senior ranks had concentrated its firepower against the unthinkable
prospect of defeat. Gordon Brown had announced his party's campaign for the
local government elections in the county.

The thinking has been that if Derbyshire falls to the Conservatives, there is
little that can be salvaged from a crushing defeat with a general election
looming.

In recent weeks David Cameron and Nick Clegg have travelled to this part of the
East Midlands to set out their own parties' challenges.

As the counts were completed after lunch in eight separate centres, the results
were swiftly relayed to County Hall, where they were greeted with delight by
Conservative supporters. The Conservative Party required a 12 per cent swing to
take control, or 33 seats, more than doubling their previous standing of 15.

A series of recounts meant that the final result (Labour, 21, Conservatives, 33,
Liberal Democrats 8 and Others 1) was in doubt until the final result.

Senior Conservative strategists knew that something important was happening when
they took Bolsover. Former mining villages followed suit.

Mr Lewer said: "If they cannot hold on here, they cannot hold on anywhere.

"I put it down to people wanting a change after 28 years, from a local
perspective. Nationally the expenses crisis caused us problems but the focus
shifted from that to the Cabinet meltdown."

'The example set by Hazel Blears was a disgrace'

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Just feel it. Obama's America is good for you;
As you sit in upbeat New York you realise political leaders can lift your
spirits. Then you look at curdled, negative Britain ...

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1075 words


In New York post-election goodwill lingers like birthday balloons that no one
can bear to take down. In the groovy T-shirt shop on 8th Street, Obama
merchandise - Barack is My Homeboy, Hope Won etc - now outsells the evergreen I
. NY. The city has rushed to Joe Turner's Come and Gone, a Broadway show that
the First Couple saw last week (though it is long, ponderous and achingly
right-on) and snapped up copies of that cardie in which Mrs O cuddled the Queen.

It was most calming to browse news stands not dripping with scorn and fury, to
flick through the frocks in the adoring glossy mag Michelle: 100 days of style.
Where was the Heat magazine "ring of shame" pointing out a sweat stain or some
odd-shaped big toe? Even the many tax dollars spent on the aircraft convoy for
the presidential date night received less opprobrium than Gordon could expect
for buying Sarah a lager top in Wetherspoons. "The prez gets to do normal-people
stuff too," gushed the Daily News.

Meanwhile, my fellow Brits and I pored over faraway rumours and resignations.
Smith, Blears ... "Wow, it's getting scary!" cried a colleague. Indeed it was
deeply unsettling to board a night flight from JFK not knowing who would be
prime minister by the time you taxied into Heathrow. Only in a parallel
political universe, where a nation is mighty pleased with its own electoral
wisdom, do you realise the damage that the constitutional crisis is doing to our
own national psyche.

For eight years we could, in equal measure, mock and pity America: for its
culture wars, its nut-job religiosity and redneck unreason. We could sympathise
with liberal friends about their word-fumbling comedy president, his sulphurous
VP, torture, rendition, provincialism, paranoia ... Not any more. Watching a
dazzling Obama address the Muslim world you suddenly remember the point of
America: its big-picture optimism and modernity, its epic generosity and can-do
attitude. And Britain seems by contrast self-loathing, curdled, introspective,
hopeless and small.

America - at last - has its real-life Jed Bartlett: we're stuck with a bunch of
Alan B'stards. Now we have a PM bothering himself with failed candidates on
Britain's Got Talent; they have a President who makes scholarly jokes, quipping
that his classically trained spin doctor Rahm Emanuel "was the first to
choreograph a ballet version of Machiavelli's The Prince". A leader who can both
wield the Koran and has a butt which, running up the steps of Air Force One,
looks hot in white jeans. A President who has not only watched The Wire but is
unafraid to say his fave character is Omar, a gay stick-up artist.

Why didn't Gordon Brown get out more, take his forbearing wife to the theatre,
attend just one event that wasn't based on horse-trading or appearances? It
would have lightened him up, given him oxygen and perspective, won a little
public love. Instead he retreated to his gloomy bunker, surrounded himself with
unworthy hatchet men and acolytes, anoints Lord Sugar of Amstrad, concentrates
ever more on the internal and recondite.

Meanwhile, Mr Obama walks boldly into the heart of Islam, doesn't balk at
raising women's rights and, more than that, demonstrates them by having Hillary
Clinton beside him in a mosque. Imagine, a man with the cojones, the diplomacy
and grace to award that great office of state to his fiercest former foe.

Great to see also that while Mr Obama left Egypt to make common cause with
Angela Merkel over the economic crisis and nuclear disputes with Iran, that
aspiring international statesman David Cameron has decreed that Tories in the EU
will work not with her, but with a far-right posse of Gypsy-haters and
homophobes, a sort of Borat Alliance.

And while Mr Brown gurns on YouTube, President Obama is blessed with a quality
possessed by the most beloved movie stars: the ability to exude beatific
happiness. Wandering smart-casually around the Sphinx or heading for dinner with
his hand on his wife's elegant back, meeting the Saudi king or striding up to
the lectern to convince a billion doubters, he looks equally at ease in his own
skin.

And that happiness - or the appearance of it - is deeply attractive and a little
contagious. Is it why New York, for all its tumbling real estate prices and
unoccupied hotel rooms, maintains an upbeat vibe? Leadership during a recession
requires strategy but can't disregard morale: like the best episodes of The West
Wing, Mr Obama has a thrusting main plotline with some lighter tropes as well.
Stevie Wonder playing the White House, the enduring and lovely marital romance,
that naughty Obama pooch.

America, for all its ailments, is enjoying this President.

Everyone I met in New York seemed to nurture a personal hope: a gay friend is
thrilled that Mr Obama invited a same-sex couple to the White House egg-rolling,
that Mr Obama has promised the end of the US military's "don't ask, don't tell".
A black cab driver cites Mr Obama's election as the reason his previously
ne'er-do-well son returned to school. A businessman on the plane explains that
he didn't vote for him, disapproves of his fiscal package, but adds warmly:
"He's a stand-up guy - he wants the same thing I do, he's just going about it a
different way."

America moves on: Britain hangs in stasis. A nation's politics filters down,
cascades from Hansard into the cerebral cortex. And I wonder how much of our
broken, defeated Government, a system in which everyone has, temporarily or not,
lost faith, this awful seeping nihilism is starting to infiltrate our lives. It
must have been strange to be a first-time voter this Thursday when the major
parties sat on the ballot paper with the BNP, UKIP or random celebs as seemingly
equally valid options.

The expenses saga is depressing, but it is toxic, too, this ugly hounding, this
insistence that they are "all the same". And what does it say about our humanity
that when Nadine Dorries warns that some MPs may be on the point of suicide, Mr
Cameron must rebuke her for the crime of trying to make us care? Our public
discourse, how we speak of our politicans or anyone prominent in national life,
has grown dangerously poisonous and debased.

Only as I sat in my New York hotel room, watching Mr Obama, that embodiment of
what democracy can bring forth, did I realise that I'd forgotten to vote in the
British elections. And for the first time in my life, I didn't care.

'The President is a stand-up guy. He wants the same thing I do'

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 2

Labour is wiped out in the shires;
Tories celebrate in the North and the South West

BYLINE: Jill Sherman; Fran Yeoman; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1196 words


Gordon Brown was dealt another huge blow last night when Labour lost all its
remaining county councils in its worst ever local election results.

Counties turned from red to blue in quick succession as the Labour vote
collapsed in its heartlands. Hundreds of councillors lost their seats and their
share of the vote fell to 23 per cent.

Labour councillors blamed their defeats on the Government's difficulties and the
MPs' expenses scandal as Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and
Lancashire slid from Labour control into the Tories' clutches.

Most of those counties had been held by Labour for nearly 30 years. Labour
parliamentary seats in the North and North West look suddenly more vulnerable.

With results still pouring in yesterday evening, Labour had lost more than 300
councillors and was at risk of disappearing entirely in some southern counties.

The Tories were delighted by their strong performance in Labour strongholds and
by seeing off the Liberal Democrats in the South West. By gaining Somerset and
Devon from them, the Conservatives made big advances in areas where the Lib Dems
have many of their Westminster seats. Later in the day they even pushed
Cornwall, another Lib Dem stronghold, into no overall control.

"Labour have been wiped off the electoral map in key battleground areas," Eric
Pickles, the Tory chairman, said as his party looked set to win well over 250
seats. "We now have a lame-duck Prime Minister running a lame-duck Government.
The country clearly wants change and the only way that can be delivered is
through the general election."

Mr Brown admitted the results were appalling for his party. "The elections
yesterday were a painful defeat for Labour. Too many good people doing so much
good for their communities and their constituencies have lost through no fault
of their own," he said.

The Liberal Democrats, who also lost more seats than they gained, admitted that
they had had a mixed day. The party was pleased it took Bristol, a unitary
authority, from no overall control and that it gained 28 per cent of the vote.

The share of the vote for the two other parties was down from last year's
council elections. Labour dropped to an historic low of 23 per cent, 1
percentage point lower than last year, while the Tories fell by 5 percentage
points from a 43 per cent share to 38. Tony Travers, a local government expert
at the London School of Economics, suggested that the Tories would have to do
considerably better at a general election to get a convincing majority.

The Tories' targeting of seats they needed to win, such as those in the South
West and the northern counties, suggests the party has enough activists where it
needs to make breakthroughs. Even now it still has no councillors in Newcastle
or Liverpool.

A widespread protest vote against all three main parties as a result of the MPs'
expenses led to strong showings by the Greens and the UK Independence Party. The
Green party gained five councillors in Norfolk, largely at the expense of
Labour, forming the largest ever Green group on a county council. It also picked
up its first two seats on Suffolk County Council and made gains elsewhere,
including in Cambridgeshire and Gloucestershire.

The BNP failed to get a single seat in Essex, where it fielded candidates in all
75 seats. But it won its first ever county council seat in Burnley, Lancashire,
bolstering the party's hopes that its leader Nick Griffin will land the party
its first seat in the European Parliament on Sunday. The BNP later took seats in
South Oxhey, Hertford-shirand Coalville in Leicestershire, but only appeared to
poll well where there were no alternatives - such as UKIP and the Greens - to
the main parties.

It was a torrid day for Labour in Norfolk as the party lost 19 of its 22
councillors. Sue Whitaker, who was the La-bougroup leader but lost her seat
yesterday, said that the expenses row had "swamped" the local campaign.

She added that there was a lot of anger about the treatment of Ian Gibson, the
popular Labour MP for Norwich North barred from standing again over expenses
revelations. "People have been saying if the party can treat a person like Ian
Gibson like that, why should I vote for them?" she said.

'If they can't hold here, they can't anywhere'

Behind the story Russell Jenkins

The Tory party passed the supreme test of its electoral virility in the shires
yesterday, wresting Derbyshire County Council from Labour's grip after almost
three decades.

There was a huge cheer from Conservatives as the last of 64 seats, Glossop
South, was coloured blue, giving them victory by the narrowest of margins.

Both Andrew Lewer, the new council leader, and John Williams, the vanquished
leader of the Labour group, put the result down to the Government's "meltdown".

Mr Williams, who is generally acknowledged to have run an efficient
administration, said: "The example set by Hazel Blears was an absolute disgrace
and she should be expelled from the party in my view. Her resignation was
disastrous.

"The continuing saga over MPs' expenses destroyed our chances. I only hope that
Gordon Brown can steady the ship with the Cabinet reshuffle but it comes too
late for us.

"A lot of excellent Labour councillors have lost their seats through no fault of
their own. If this had been down to our record locally, with the lowest council
tax of any shire in the country, then we would have won easily."

Derbyshire spans 65 miles across, from the ribbon development of Chesterfield
and Bolsover to the undulating countryside of the Derbyshire Dales and the High
Peak to the west.

Yesterday the blue that usually forms a swath down the eastern side of the
county pushed the red of Labour into a northeastern redoubt.

Labour has held sway in the castellated County Hall in Matlock for 28 years. It
was one of only four remaining Labour county councils - and the one with the
largest majority.

The party's senior ranks had concentrated its firepower against the unthinkable
prospect of defeat. Gordon Brown had announced his party's campaign for the
local government elections in the county.

The thinking has been that if Derbyshire falls to the Conservatives, there is
little that can be salvaged from a crushing defeat with a general election
looming.

In recent weeks David Cameron and Nick Clegg had travelled to this part of the
East Midlands to set out their own parties' challenges.

As the counts were completed after lunch in eight separate centres, the results
were swiftly relayed to County Hall, where they were greeted with delight by
Conservative supporters. The Conservative Party required a 12 per cent swing to
take control, or 33 seats, more than doubling their previous standing of 15. A
series of recounts meant that the final result (Labour, 21, Conservatives, 33,
Liberal Democrats 8 and Others 1) was in doubt until the final result.

Senior Conservative strategists knew that something important was happening when
they took Bolsover. Former mining villages followed suit.

Mr Lewer said: "If they cannot hold on here, they cannot hold on anywhere."

Online

Interactive map of full results timesonline.co.uk/ elections "Red squirrel,
large blue, natterjack toad, Labour councillor ..."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

FURIOUS VOTERS IN BALLOT BOX BOYCOTT

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY AND JULIE MOULT

LENGTH: 627 words


MAIN PARTIES SHUNNED AFTER EXPENSES SCANDAL

VOTERS angered by the MPs' expenses scandal steered clear of ballot boxes
yesterday, with sources predicting a 'nosedive' in turnout.

All three main parties reported desperately low numbers entering polling
stations.

Insiders were estimating a turnout of less than 30 per cent in the 37 local
council elections, and just 20 per cent in the European elections.

If correct, this would be among the lowest ever turnouts in polls in British
history and an extraordinary illustration of widespread apathy.

Those who did make the effort were expected to deliver a bloody nose to Labour
and the Tories in the wake of the Westminster allowances crisis.

The Liberal Democrat vote appeared to be holding up, and the minor parties ñ UK
Independence Party, the Greens and the far-right British National Party ñ were
set to be the main recipients of votes from those deserting the 'big two'.

Polls had predicted that Labour could be forced into fourth place, a disaster
for the party that would further endanger the future of Gordon Brown. A poll
this week showed Labour could count on just 16 per cent of support, just ahead
of the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent and behind Nigel Farage's anti-EU UKIP
party on 18 per cent. The Tories were said to have 26 per cent of the vote.

Voters went to the polls in England in 27 county councils, seven unitary
authorities and three mayoral contests.

The rest of the country only voted in the European elections.

Predictions of increased turnout in areas where an MP had been caught milking
taxpayer-funded Parliamentary allowances appeared to have been over-egged.

In Salford, where ex-Communities Secretary Hazel Blears avoided paying £13,000
in capital gains tax after 'flipping' her second home designation, there
appeared to be complete disgruntlement with politics.

At Broughton Road Polling station, just a five-minute walk from Salford's main
shopping precinct, only 19 people had voted by 3.30pm. The polls had opened at
7am.

Even in the heart of the Salford constituency turnout appeared remarkably low.

At a local leisure centre, Clarendon Fit City, only 88 people had voted between
7am and 4pm.

And just 52 people out of 2,255 voted in the first two hours at a polling
station in Streatham, South London, where it was European election only.

Traditionally half the voters go to the polls after 5pm, so allowing for this
and for some postal votes the projected final turnout would still be less than
25 per cent.

One LibDem insider said: 'The early indications in most places is that turnout
will be as low as 20 per cent for the European elections, and it will barely
brush 30 per cent for the councils. People are turning their backs on politics.'
A Labour source said turnout in county council elections was usually about 34
per cent.

In 2005 it was much higher because there was a general election.

But he said: 'Overall, turnout is down on this.

'It is hard to know precisely at this stage, but people are punishing
politicians by staying away. Many people are utterly disillusioned and thinking
"Why bother?".'

However, in parts of the country where candidates for Nick Griffin's extremist
BNP party were standing, there were reports of a stronger turnout.

Dan Hodges, of the anti-fascist organisation Searchlight, said: 'In the
North-West turnout has seemed to be good and in some areas appeared to be above
the local elections last year.

'Turnout in London has been quite good as well.'

This could deal a blow to the party's hopes of seizing a first European seat.

The majority of council election results are expected tomorrow afternoon, by
which time the Prime Minister may have begun an expected Cabinet reshuffle.

Results from the European poll will not be in until Sunday.

i.drury@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

THIS FEVERED CONSPIRACY OF COSMOPOLITAN MALCONTENTS AND A GROWING PLOT TO TOPPLE
THE PREMIER BY HOTMAIL

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN AND JAMES CHAPMAN

LENGTH: 1778 words


WHEN Gordon Brown's henchmen tried to drive Tony Blair from office, they schemed
over chicken Madras in a West Midlands curry house. Now that the boot is on the
other foot, Mr Brown finds himself up against an altogether more complex and
cosmopolitan conspiracy.

It has brought together the Guardian newspaper, Blairite plotters spouting
Trotskyite slogans, Cabinet malcontents and members of the elite group of Blair
Babes known as the Labour WAGs ñ Women Against Gordon.

Rebel leaders claim the groups of conspirators are coming together into a
'perfect storm' for the Prime Minister's leadership. They are working under
Trotsky's revolutionary dictum: 'March separately, strike together.'

Discontented MPs told the Daily Mail they intend to break cover today to call
for Mr Brown to resign.

The Prime Minister's allies accuse the leftwing Guardian ñ long seen as Labour's
house journal ñ of promoting and even orchestrating the plot. It demanded Mr
Brown's resignation in a scathing editorial on Wednesday in which it insisted
there was 'no vision from him, no plan, no argument for the future and no
support'.

Downing Street was incandescent with rage that it was given no forewarning of
the savage article. The Prime Minister's allies suspected it had been written in
active collaboration with Labour rebels.

Later in the day the newspaper decided to use its website to break a report of a
backbench plot to gather 80 names on an email calling for Mr Brown to go, rather
than waiting for its print edition.

The move ensured the plot dominated TV coverage throughout the day.

The Prime Minister has long had a difficult relationship with the paper ñ
typified by the hot and cold musings on his leadership by columnist Polly
Toynbee.

The Guardian's grande dame, a heroine for bien-pensant champagne socialists, has
performed an extraordinary series of exquisitely inconsistent flipflops since Mr
Brown became Prime Minister.

In 2006, she wrote a piece entitled 'Blair's party is crying out for Gordon the
Viking' and regularly championed him as the only man for the job.

Since then, she has swerved between demanding Mr Brown's head on a plate and
begging MPs to forget leadership 'tiffs'.

But last month Miss Toynbee used her column to insist that Mr Brown 'must go by
June 5'.

His allies suspect she has played a key role in privately encouraging Labour
backbenchers to act, persuading her editor to cut Mr Brown loose and sketching
out a timetable for how he could be unseated.

Recently she has backed up her denunciations in print with frequent, and
sometimes near-hysterical, TV and internet appearances, apparently timed to
appear at Mr Brown's moments of greatest weakness.

'I cannot see that the Labour Party led by Gordon Brown at the next election can
be anything but an utter and total catastrophe,' she pronounced recently.

An MP loyal to Mr Brown said: 'The Guardian hasn't just abandoned its support
for the Prime Minister, it seems to actively be part of the plot to get rid of
him.'

In recent weeks a close-knit group of backbenchers operating with the secrecy of
a terrorist cell has approached likeminded MPs.

They have been asked to sign up in principle to an anti-Brown plot by sending a
message to an anonymous Hotmail email account.

Today, rebel leaders are expected to step up their campaign by inviting ALL
Labour MPs to endorse a letter asking the Prime Minister to quit for the good of
the party.

Those at the vanguard of the plot claimed to have held talks with Work and
Pensions Secretary James Purnell and Europe Minister Caroline Flint.

At the same time another group of conspirators have been at work. Communities
Secretary Hazel Blears, who quit the Cabinet on Wednesday, is accused of trying
to conspire with female colleagues ñ including Miss Flint ñ days before her
resignation.

Allies of the Prime Minister call it 'the Pugin Room plot' after the hallowed
Commons lounge, overlooking the Thames, where there was a discreet meeting of
women MPs on Monday. Others understoodto be involved are Blairite backbenchers
Siobhan McDonagh and Joan Ryan ñ both regular dining companions of Miss Blears ñ
Jacqui Smith, who quit as Home Secretary this week, and Miss Flint.

Miss Flint is seen as one of the pivotal figures in any move to oust the Prime
Minister, but some in the group fear she may go back on a reported promise to
quit once the election results are revealed.

A close friend of Miss Flint and Miss Smith said: 'If the Prime Minister offers
her a big job, she will take it and screw the others.'

The women's link to the 'Hotmail plotters' is through former whip Graham Allen
and fellow backbencher Graham Stringer.

These MPs have held talks on Mr Brown's future with former Home Secretary
Charles Clarke, who is understood to have gathered around three dozen
supporters, and ex-minister Fiona MacTaggart, who is claimed to have mustered
many more.

Mr Clarke, in turn, is in close touch with Blairite former ministers Alan
Milburn and Stephen Byers, both of whom were yesterday returning from overseas
trips jokingly described by their allies as 'the government in exile'.

Labour chief whip Nick Brown also fingered backbencher Paul Farrelly, the MP for
Newcastle Under Lyme, who shares the plotters' views but is not part of the war
cabinet of coup engineers. Yesterday Nick Brown and his henchmen were racing to
pressure MPs not to sign the letter.

Discussions about moves to oust the Premier have been ongoing since last autumn,
when Foreign Secretary David Miliband briefly looked set to run mount a
challenge ñ then lost his nerve.

Now, rebel leaders claim a critical mass of MPs is coming together from all
wings of the party, uniting Blairites, leftwingers and Cabinet figures.

All are frustrated by Mr Brown's handling of recent crises. But the election
results will be critical, since many MPs fear Labour's parlous standing in the
polls has doomed their chances of re-election.

'People with majorities of six or seven thousand thought they had relatively
safe seats but now they're looking at the dole queue,' one plotter said.

'Another MP who signed up this week said he has a safe seat but he wants to
return to a Commons where he has more than 140 colleagues.'

Labour currently has 351 MPs. The breadth of discontent was highlighted
yesterday by the intervention of select committee chairman Barry Sheerman, once
one of Labour's most slavish loyalists.

Mr Sheerman associated himself with the plotters, saying he would 'probably sign
the letter'.

'The interesting thing is that it's not the usual suspects,' he told the Daily
Mail.

He also called for a secret ballot of all Labour MPs to determine whether the
Prime Minister has the support to hang on.

'He either has the confidence of the Parliamentary Party or he does not,' Mr
Sheerman said. 'I'm coming round to the view that he should go.'

Allies of Mr Brown have already begun briefing that even 50 MPs calling for the
Prime Minister's head would not be enough to trouble them, even though it
represents a quarter of those backbenchers who do not hold any sort of
Government post.

A senior Downing Street source said: 'There are 38 MPs who regularly rebel, so
to get 50 names is not such a big deal.'

But one of the rebels said that if No 10 persists with that attitude it will
only encourage the Prime Minister's critics.

'That would be a very serious misreading of the situation,' one rebel said.

Jan Moir ñ Pages 28-29

MANDY TO THE RESCUE

GORDON Brown's growing reliance on onetime sworn enemy Lord Mandelson shows how
isolated the Premier is. The peer has become the most senior minister to use the
media to prop up the Prime Minister.

Yesterday he urged Labour MPs not to sign a letter calling on Mr Brown to
resign. Appealing directly to the plotters, he said: 'Don't please, through your
actions, make it any worse for the Labour Party.'

The feeling in Westminster is that if Lord Mandelson were to withdraw his
backing, Foreign Secretary David Miliband and Work and Pensions Secretary James
Purnell would feel free to launch a coup.

Instead, Lord Mandelson has reasserted his authority in the Labour party by
swinging behind Mr Brown, especially in backing his proposal to move Ed Balls to
the Treasury.

Mr Brown and Lord Mandelson became arch rivals after spectacularly falling out
when the peer backed Tony Blair for the Labour leadership in 1994.

Brownite loyalists were blamed for leaking the details of Lord Mandelson's
controversial £373,000 home loan, which forced his first Cabinet resignation.
The feud continued even when the peer moved to Brussels as Britain's EU
Commissioner.

RETICENT ROBINSON

THE BBC provided new ammunition for its critics yesterday when political editor
Nick Robinson refused to name the Labour MPs plotting to oust Gordon Brown.

The party's chief whip, Nick Brown, had outed some of those running the
secretive campaign the night before.

But, although Mr Robinson (below) admitted he knew who they were, he refused to
enlighten the listeners who pay his salary when he was asked on Radio 4.

He told anchorman John Humphrys: 'We do know. I'm not entirely sure I'm going to
tell you on the Today Programme though John because the nature of these
conversations is that you have conversations with people who are doing it'.

Those who accuse the BBC of a pro-Labour bias will find it strange he did not
discuss names already circulating in Westminster.

But he did say: 'There are traditional Blairite critics of the Prime Minister.
There are some MPs who are furious at his handling of the expenses scandal.'
Others just do not think he can win an election, he added.

DONOR FACES AXE

LORD Kalms, founder of electrical chain Dixons, is facing expulsion from the
Conservative party after 'lending' his vote to UKIP.

Leader David Cameron is understood to be furious at the former party chairman
for appearing to encourage voters to back the anti-European party yesterday.

The businessman is a heavyweight Tory donor and has handed nearly £560,000 to
the party since 2001.

He issued a statement just hours before the polls opened for the crucial local
and European elections in which he 'strongly' recommended backing smaller
parties.

The passionate Eurosceptic has also spoken out against the return to influence
of Ken Clarke and called for Shadow Chancellor George Osborne to be replaced
over his links to Russian tycoon Oleg Deripaska.

One senior Conservative party source said: 'He has been detached for a long
time. We cannot have anybody explicitly encouraging people to vote for another
party.'

Stuart Wheeler, another business donor, was expelled from the party after giving
£100,000 to UKIP earlier this year.

Lord Kalms, 77, spent almost 40 years turning Dixons into a retail giant.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

SHARIA LAW'S NO BETTER THAN KRAYS, SAYS TEBBIT

BYLINE: BY STEVE DOUGHTY

LENGTH: 571 words


VETERAN Tory Lord Tebbit provoked anger among Muslims yesterday by comparing
Islamic sharia courts to gangsters.

He likened the tribunals to the 'system of arbitration of disputes that was run
by the Kray brothers'.

Lord Tebbit told the Lords: 'Are you not aware that there is extreme pressure
put upon vulnerable women to go through a form of arbitration that results in
them being virtually precluded from access to British law?' The

Social Affairs Correspondent intervention from Lord Tebbit, the former Tory
chairman and cabinet minister whose leading role in the Thatcher years has made
him a revered figure for many in the party, reignited the row over Islamic
courts and their role in the British justice system.

Muslim critics called his remarks 'baseless and ignorant'.

Last autumn, ministers confirmed that sharia tribunals may deal with family and
divorce disputes among Muslims, and that sharia decisions need only the briefest
scrutiny in a law court to win full legal effect.

Five sharia courts currently operate mediation systems approved under the 1996
Arbitration Act. Their decisions on divorce, money and children can be approved
by a family court if they are submitted to a judge for approval.

Orthodox Jewish religious tribunals settle similar disputes and have a similar
legal status.

Lord Tebbit ñ who drew controversy in the 1990s after he recommended a 'cricket
test' to assess the loyalty to Britain of immigrants- spoke after ministers
confirmedthe role of sharia courts. Warning that women could be shut out from
the protection of the law, he asked Justice Minister Lord Bach: 'That is a
difficult matter, I know, but how do you think we can help those who are put in
that position?'

His comparison with the intimidation and violence used by the Krays to run their
gangland empire brought an angry response.

Inayat Bunglawala, of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: 'We can only wonder
whether Lord Tebbit has ever set foot in a sharia council to see what they
actually do before making such a baseless and ignorant comparison with the
workings of the Kray brothers.

'Both Muslim sharia councils and Orthodox Jewish Beth Din courts exist to try
and help resolve civil disputes amongst individuals through a voluntary process
of arbitration. They are entirely legal and have to operate firmly within the
law.'

But Lord Tebbit's scepticism over sharia law was backed by UKIP peer Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, who called on the Government for 'a clear assurance that
sharia law will never be allowed to take precedence over British law.'

Lord Bach admitted a problem 'undoubtedly exists' over the treatmentof women in
sharia courts. But he added: 'The fact is that any decision made by anybody that
is outside English law cannot stand against English law. If consent is sought,
for example, for some issue around children or to do with family assets, then
the English courts decide.

'Other councils ñ not courts ñ can, if the parties want to make that agreement,
make that agreement and that applies across the board. But always behind that is
the fact that those agreements can't be enforced except by an English court.'

Last year, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, said the full
establishment of sharia law 'seems unavoidable'. In July 2008, the then Lord
Chief Justice Lord Phillips said the principles of sharia law could be the basis
for resolving family and business disputes.

s.doughty@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

YOU'RE FIRED;
Sugar drops in at the Brown bunker

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 459 words


DOOMED Gordon Brown faced taunts of "You're fired!" yesterday when Apprentice
star Sir Alan Sugar breezed into No 10.

The PM was holed up in Downing Street desperately trying to foil a plot by rebel
Labour MPs to force him out.

Outside, Westminster was gripped by fevered speculation about which Cabinet
minister might quit next - and then Sir Alan suddenly turned up.

Only hours earlier, 10 million viewers had seen the millionaire pick his two
Apprentice fi nalists on the hit BBC1 show.

Sir Alan, 62, is a close friend of Mr Brown and rumours soon spread that he had
told him "you're hired!" to help the PM survive the chop.

A Downing Street spokesman claimed the call was just one of the Prime Minister's
regular meetings with top businessmen.

But the battered PM could be finished off when disastrous results expected from
yesterday's local council and Euro elections fl ood in.

Polls show Labour is heading for total humiliation, fi nishing fourth behind the
Tories, Lib Dems and UK Independence Party in the ballots to pick our new MEPs.

Tory leader David Cameron looked poised for success as he went to vote with wife
Samantha, as did the Lib Dems' leader Nick Clegg.

But all the major parties are tipped for a hammering from voters in revenge over
the MPs' expenses scandal.

Most local authority results are not expected until this afternoon, while
counting in the Euro polls begins on Sunday. Fringe parties like the farright
BNP are expected to make gains, while Labour's share of the vote could be as low
as 16% - the worst ever for a sitting Government.

Political commentators said the PM was treating No 10 like his bunker and just
waiting for the worst.

And the revolt by backbenchers circulating an email to oust Mr Brown and trigger
a leadership contest was intensifying last night.

The brains behind the plot to ditch the Prime Minister have turned out to be
Stephen Byers and Alan Milburn - both cronies of Tony Blair. Their backers have
been urging Cabinet ministers to join them.

They need a minimum of 72 MPs to sign a letter which tells Mr Brown to stand
down for the good of the party.

The PM is now frantically working on a Cabinet reshuffl e in the wake of the
elections meltdown.

Friends have told him to be ruthless to regain his grip on power.

He could carry out a bloodbath like Harold Macmillan's notorious Night Of The
Long Knives in 1962 when he dumped seven of his Cabinet.

Top jobs are apparently being offered to ministers if they stand by the PM.

That includes Europe Minister Caroline Flint who was earlier tipped as the next
to humiliate him by resigning.

Insiders believe the PM could soon go if the campaign to dump him becomes
unstoppable. But Labour loyalists fear a leadership battle would see the party
implode through infi ghting.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE WAY OUT: Sir Alan Sugar leaves Downing Street by the back
entrance
HOPEFUL: Lib Dem Clegg
OFF TO VOTE: David and Samantha Cameron yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Anger as voters can't find UKIP on ballot papers

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 252  words


BRITAIN'S leading anti-Brussels party yesterday lodged a formal complaint with
election officials amid fears that the folding of some ballot papers could have
cost it tens of thousands of votes.

The UK Independence Party (UKIP) claimed to have been "swamped" with calls from
supporters who could not find it on the list.

In some cases the printing process was said to have left the lengthy ballot
paper stuck shut, requiring voters to prise it open to reveal the UKIP entry,
below the names of rival parties, because of its place in the alphabet.

The party threatened to demand a legal challenge and a re-run of the elections
in some areas if the problem appears to have damaged its showing in a year when
it hoped to capitalise from public disgust at the main parties over MPs'
expenses.

UKIP complained to the Electoral Commission, which reminded polling booth
officials to hand out ballot papers unfolded.

Party leader Nigel Farage also wrote to Justice Minister Michael Wills saying:
"We are outraged that today's European election has not been contested on a free
and fair basis.

"We have been swamped with upset voters who failed to find us on the ballot
paper.

"In many cases they have voted for other parties such as NO2EU and even the BNP.

"We are now getting information from across the UK with a view to issuing a
legal challenge to demand a re-run of the election."

Ballot papers were long because in some regions, 12 or more parties and
independents were standing.

Parties also listed all their hopeful candidates.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David and Samantha Cameron arrive at a London p ollin g station

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHY I BACKED THE CONSERVATIVES IN THIS WEEK'S EUROPEAN VOTE;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: LEADER; 11

LENGTH: 241  words


AS I write the Thursday vote is going on. By the time you read this it will be
over and we shall know the results of the local elections.

As Hertfordshire is not involved it is the news on Sunday night about the Euro
votes that will intrigue me.

Looking at my own voting sheet I was stunned by the yard-long list of "who the
blazes is he?" candidates.

All wasted because in the Euro vote one can only choose parties, not individual
independents representing only themselves in one part of the land. I dearly hope
David Cameron can reverse this pernicious prostitution of democracy and let us
go back to 72 MEPs voted into 72 constituencies.

One of the most valuable bequests our fore fathers ever left us was the
relationship between MP and constituent. With the internet we can now "see" them
and "hear" them without shifting from the fireside. Voting for a party list of
anonymous strangers is not democracy.

That said I hope millions of votes were not wasted on no-hopers and certainly
not the BNP .

In Brussels you need a large bloc of MEPs an d many allies to have an effect.
Every time I hea r the outrage of Brittan, Patten and the rest I know David
Cameron is doing something right.

That is why I voted Conservative. I have hear d all the UKIP/Libertas arguments
but I wan t people such as Daniel Hannan in there fightin g our corner.

No good relying on Labour, the Lib-Dems o r the Foreign Office: they're known
east of Calai s as Capitulation-R-Us.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

National: Labour in crisis: Numbers game: 20% or under and Labour rebels will
smell blood

BYLINE: Tony Travers

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 598 words


Local election results do not all come in neatly, like the exit poll predictions
that provide an instant result in many countries' general elections. Council
poll results tumble in over many hours and can include highly localised choices.
Thus, for example, the struggle between the BNP and the mainstream parties in
Stoke-on-Trent will tell us more about the Potteries town than it does about
Gordon Brown's future.

Nevertheless, the pattern of results that will have emerged by the time
Northamptonshire declares its count early this evening will either galvanise
government rebels or, if the Labour vote holds up in the low 20%-range, allow
the prime minister to sleep more

easily - at least until Sunday night, when the European election results will be
known.

Once the polls closed last night in 34 English councils, Bristol, Central
Bedfordshire (a new unitary) and, later, Lincolnshire counted their full results
in the time-honoured fashion. However big the swings to or away from Labour, few
commentators would be willing to use this tiny sample as representative of the
country. Only when a flood of results starts to come through after midday today
will it be possible to assess the threat to Brown. Professor John Curtice at
Strathclyde University will undertake extrapolations for the BBC this afternoon.
Only then will it be possible to estimate the general election "equivalent vote"
share.

Today's results are expected to come in first from the south of England,
starting with the Isle of Wight at around midday, followed by Gloucestershire,
Hampshire, Norfolk, Somerset and Warwickshire by lunchtime. Then results begin
to come in from Midlands and northern authorities. Labour's first potential loss
is expected to be Staffordshire in mid-afternoon, then at around 4pm the
Derbyshire result is due. The big question is: can David Cameron do well enough
to win the county outright? If the Tories take Derbyshire, Labour's most
firmly-held shire, it will be seen as a terrible omen by the party.

For those watching the Conservative-Liberal Democrat electoral hinterland,
results from Somerset and Devon, which are expected early to mid-afternoon,
should tell us whether the Tories are making ground on the Lib Dems, who have
been held to both counties by a small margin since 2005.

Counties and unitary councils provide public services that matter to voters. So
the European elections can be more easily used by people to vent their anger
with the major parties. Thus, while the Greens, UKIP and the BNP may make some
progress in the local elections, they can be expected to do far better on
Sunday.

Perceptions and expectations are everything in judging how well or badly each
party has done. Most of the commentary before these elections had viewed a net
loss by Labour of 200 coun cillors as the border between "bad" and "very bad".
Certainly, if Labour were to lose more than 250 councillors and win below 20% of
the national equivalent vote in the local elections, the result would certainly
be seen as abysmal.

Equally, the Tories need to win more than 200 council seats to be seen to be
doing well. It is likely that both major parties will receive a lower share of
the national vote than last year. Local effects and the possibility that
independents will make headway will also need to be taken into account as all
the results are sifted-through tomorrow morning.

Whatever the impact of the voting, the die is now cast. One thing that can
surely be predicted is a weekend of high political drama.

Tony Travers is an expert on local government at the London School of Economics

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

National: Labour in crisis: Kirkcaldy: Even home turf now tricky territory for
prime minister

BYLINE: Severin Carrell: Scotland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 352 words


Ann Gillon, her dreadlocked pink hair bright in the sun, is a rare beast: she
was one of the few 18-year-olds in Kirkcaldy thinking carefully how to vote in
the European elections. What did seem clear was, it would not be for Labour.

The respect, even deference, that older voters in this Fife town feel for Gordon
Brown, a local boy, has little traction with her generation. "He doesn't seem
well prepared for the job, does he? He just doesn't seem as well prepared as
Tony Blair did," she remarked as she left Kirkcaldy job centre.

Slouched against the job centre's wall, Nicholas Boag, 23, was blunt in his
assessment of the local MP and prime minister. "I think he's doing a crap job,"
Boag said. A non-voter, he grudgingly thinks Brown's local roots "something to
be proud of, I suppose". But he adds: "The last time I saw him, he was visiting
my high school, and he just came across as a bit of a pompous git."

This poor public image is Brown's greatest problem, said Alex Arnott, 52, a
psychology lecturer at Adam Smith college. Brown &#64258;ounders in the age of
celebrity, she said.

"People are so in&#64258;uenced by body language, by appearance.

He doesn't have the appeal. He doesn't photograph well. He doesn't have the
charisma of Obama and that power to

convince people with his words; he's not an easy man to watch," she said. "But
he's not an evil man, he's not a bad man. He's a very intelligent man.i

Alex Rowley, Brown's election agent and Labour leader in Fife, said the expenses
scandal now close to destroying Brown's premiership had - perversely - awoken
interest in polling day. "The problem is people are identifying the MPs'
expenses scandal with government, and it's di&#64259;cult to challenge." Yet few
voters blame Brown in person, Rowley claims. "People are not being negative
about Gordon. I think his own personal standing is holding up."

But voters at a polling station near Stark's Park football ground, home of
Brown's beloved Raith Rovers, seemed to disagree. "I think he's going to get
hammered," said Kenneth Rattray, 46, a firefighter and former Labour supporter
who voted for Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Mad about Harry

BYLINE: Stephen Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 73 words


The BNP is not the only party to misappropriate Winston Churchill (Report, 28
May). Ukip used a photograph of Churchill to illustrate its current European
election leaflet; presumably in ignorance of the fact that in 1946 he called for
a "United States Of Europe" in speech in Zurich. John Stuart Mill famously
called the Conservatives the "stupid people's party" - what on earth would he
have made of Ukip?

Stephen Ashley

Uxbridge, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Labour suffers heavy losses in local elections

LENGTH: 990 words

ABSTRACT

Tories hail victories in 'north, south, east and west' as Labour loses all four
of its county councils in England

FULL TEXT

Labour suffered a punishing electoral humiliation today as it lost all four of
its remaining county councils in England to the Conservatives.

The Tory clean sweep saw Labour lose Derbyshire, Lancashire, and Staffordshire
to the Tories.

Labour later lost Nottinghamshire, which it has held for the past 28 years, as
swaths of its seats across England disappeared.

With 28 of 34 councils declared, Labour had lost a net 245 seats while the
Tories had gained 214 and the Lib Dems faced a net loss of eight.

According to the BBC's projection of the national vote share the Conservatives
were on 38%, Labour on 23% - a historic low - the Lib Dems on 28%, and other
parties on 11%.

Today's results prompted Gordon Brown to describe the tally as a "painful defeat
for Labour".

"Too many good people doing so much good for their communities and their
constituencies have lost through no fault of their own," he said.

David Cameron seized on his party's success at the polls to renew his challenge
to Brown to call a general election.

During a visit to triumphant party candidates in Lancashire, which saw support
for Labour collapse by 14%, Cameron described the government as "chaotic",
lurching from one "shambles" to another.

As Labour lost 25 seats in the northern shires while the Tories picked up 18,
Cameron said: "This is not a protest vote, it's a hugely positive vote because
it has happened all over the country," he said.

"We are winning in the south west, in Devon and Somerset. We are winning in the
Midlands, in Staffordshire and Derbyshire.

"We are winning in the north, here in Lancashire. That's not a protest vote,
it's a vote for a strong, positive, united alternative to a failing government."

The day began with the Conservatives controlling 19 of the shires, Labour four
and the Liberal Democrats two, with a remaining two under no over all control.

Twenty-seven county councils - traditionally Conservative strongholds - and
seven unitary councils across England (two existing ones and five new ones) went
to the polls yesterday along with three mayoral seats.

The two existing unitaries were under no overall control (Bristol) and Tory
control (the Isle of Wight).

By teatime tonight, the Tories had gained control of another seven local
authorities, with four councils still to declare their results, while Labour had
lost a net four and the Lib Dems one.

The Conservatives now have a strong lead over other parties, holding 1,240 of
the 2,318 seats that were up for grabs - with results still coming in. The
Conservatives also wrested the mayoralty back from Labour in north Tyneside, and
took Warwickshire from no overall control.

Labour lost 16 seats in Derbyshire as the Conservatives gained 19 with one ward
result still to come in. In Staffordshire, the Tories had taken 49 of the 62
council seats at the last count while Labour had slumped to fourth position with
just three, behind the Liberal Democrats and Ukip, both on four.

The results announced across the course of the day only confirmed expectations
of a Labour drubbing and piled pressure on Brown, who was conducting a reshuffle
after , which sparked a number of further departures by government colleagues
today, including John Hutton, the defence secretary, and Geoff Hoon, the
transport secretary.

Caroline Spelman, the Conservatives' local government and communities spokesman,
heralded Tory gains as part of an "incredible day", with Labour facing
"meltdown" in town and shire halls.

"We are seeing a meltdown for Labour in its core areas and dysfunctional
government trying to reshuffle itself," she said.

Spelman predicted that the Tories were likely to gain "north, south, east, west"
at a press briefing to regional lobby journalists.

Labour failed to win a single seat in the new unitary authority of Central
Bedfordshire, where the Conservatives have gained overall control with only six
Liberal Democrats and one independent councillor standing between them and a
monopoly of the council.

The local Tory leader, Patricia Turner, said: "It's clear that the Labour party
vote has simply collapsed, and I'm sure the national situation affected that."

In Lincolnshire, the Conservatives retained overall control while Labour was
nearly wiped off the county council's electoral map. Its share of the vote fell
in virtually every seat.

By the time 50 of the 77 seats had been declared, the Tories had won 39 seats,
Labour three and the Liberal Democrats five.

In Lincoln, a Labour stronghold for the party's county council group, the Tories
gained seven of the 10 seats contested.

Labour lost its six remaining seats in Burnley. Five were taken by the Lib Dems.
Gordon Birtwistle, the Lib Dems' council leader, said his party had "completely
wiped Labour off the map".

The BNP won its first seat on Lancashire county council, beating the Labour
cabinet member Marcus Johnstone by 201 votes in Padiham and Burnley West, its
local stronghold on the town's district council.

Labour came third in the mayoral election in Hartlepool, which saw the
re-election of a former football mascot who promised free bananas to
schoolchildren.

Stuart Drummond - who originally stood as H'Angus the Monkey, the former
Hartlepool United mascot, as a joke - won his third term as mayor with a
majority of more than 800 votes.

Labour also came in third in the Doncaster mayoral contest, which was won by
Peter Davies of the English Democrats.

There was some comfort for Labour in Scotland, where the party celebrated two
local council byelection victories over the Scottish National party in Glasgow
and North Lanarkshire.

The Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, declared it a "stunning" result for his
party and "a personal humiliation" for the SNP leader and Scottish first
minister, Alex Salmond.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Put the country out of its misery

LENGTH: 443 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Montgomerie: Neither a cabinet reshuffle nor dumping Brown will rescue
Labour - the party, and the country, need an election now

FULL TEXT

If Brown had been Conservative leader he would have been toppled by now. The
Conservatives are ruthless in getting rid of unpopular leaders. Brown is much
more unpopular than Margaret Thatcher, Iain Duncan Smith or John Major, but it
now seems possible that he will survive. He's successfully  - although he has
not had the authority to move David Miliband or Alistair Darling, as he had
hoped.

Behind closed doors, Labour MPs hardly have a good word to say about Brown but
they are afraid to strike - afraid to follow  last night. Some key cabinet
ministers are holding back for fear of a  and what that means for their own
leadership hopes. The parliamentary Labour party has shown it can't run the
country and it is now looking like it can't run a leadership coup.

If Brown survives - and at the time of submitting this piece I think he will -
he will be more wounded than 24 hours ago. The Labour party will be more
divided. The prime minister's authority more diminished. The nation's patience
close to exhausted. When the government should be focused on saving people's
jobs and homes it's obsessed with saving its own MPs. In the end it won't save
anything. betrayed what this was all about. Not one mention of the country. It
was all about the Labour party's electoral fortunes. All too revealing.

The man Conservative HQ still fears most is Alan Johnson and Tory strategists
have been  to beat him. I certainly think he's a more formidable opponent than
Gordon Brown or the geeky David Miliband. A Johnson-Harman ticket would cause
the Conservatives some worry. I thought Harriet Harman would be a disastrous
deputy Labour leader but she's been a good TV performer and seems to be diluting
her extreme feminism.

But neither keeping Brown nor dumping Brown will rescue Labour. A political
party doesn't just need a popular leader. The other two essentials of the
triangle of success are economic competence and party unity. Neither of those
exist. Sunday's  will produce messy results. Ukip and the Greens will do well.
But the European elections have produced odd results for a long time. At the
next election, people will know that the choice is Labour or Conservative. Ukip,
the Greens and (thankfully) the BNP will fall away as electorally irrelevant.
That electoral showdown can't come soon enough. Labour and the country need to
be put out of their misery.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

In much of the south, Labour is a fringe party

LENGTH: 525 words

ABSTRACT

Even through the dark days of the 1980s there were still active branches and
elected councillors even in small towns, but no longer, reports Lewis Baston

FULL TEXT

The Conservatives have done extremely well in terms of seats in the county
council results. It was almost a foregone conclusion that they would hold on to
what they had, and sweep Labour out of the remaining county councils in the
Midlands, but they seem to have done rather better.

They were not just beneficiaries of a Labour collapse, but also made
considerable progress against the Liberal Democrats, gaining control of Somerset
and Devon from the rival opposition party. So far the Tories even look as if
they are doing well in the new Cornwall unitary council, winning Redruth Central
- a town where the party scraped barely 10%of the vote in the 2005 county
elections. It seems possible that they will manage a clean sweep of all the
county councils, a feat at the most optimistic end of their hopes.

For Labour the results are utterly miserable, with extremely few exceptions (the
party strangely gained a couple of seats in Nelson, Lancashire, despite the
general collapse, and nearly held firm in Hastings). Across a lot of southern
England, Labour is running in fourth, fifth or even sixth place in the county
elections behind candidates of more or less any other party that fancies its
chances - Greens, Ukip, English Democrats ...

In much of the south, Labour is in effect a fringe party. It has been
practically eradicated as a force in politics in these areas and may well never
recover. Even through the dark days of the 1980s there were still active
branches and elected councillors even in small towns, but no longer. There have
also been some spectacular collapses in northern England - in Burnley Rural
ward, which Labour was defending, the party came fourth and lost the seat to the
Lib Dems.

The county elections reveal an English electorate attracted by populist
rightwing parties, a predictable expression of the widespread indiscriminate
cynicism about mainstream politics. The BNP has polled at the upper end of
expectations, getting 7% even in some areas (such as Chelmsford and the Clacton
area) outside its traditional stamping grounds.

, albeit only on 27-31% of the vote through fractured opposition. If David
Cameron objects to electoral systems that let in extremists, is he now going to
condemn first past the post in local elections?

Aside from the BNP, the rightwing mood is apparent in the high votes for Ukip
where it has stood in local elections, small rightwing parties and perhaps the
surprise package of the lot, the English Democrats, who won the demolition derby
that was the Doncaster mayoral election.

They have also achieved some quite impressive shares of the vote in county
elections - Essex, for instance - despite the lack of knowledge of the party
among the media and the electorate.

The total vote for these parties plus the Conservatives could make the 2009
European election the most rightwing expression of opinion the British have made
collectively since 1931.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Councils of despair

LENGTH: 675 words

ABSTRACT

Tony Travers: The local elections have proved dire for Labour. Only the fact
that minor party voting limited Tory gains has prevented a rout

FULL TEXT

 have further battered Labour, though not in a terminal way. Against the
backdrop of recent events, the council results will be read with minor relief in
Downing Street. Any political happening that doesn't actively make things worse
for Gordon Brown is to be viewed as a win.

As widely expected, Labour lost all its remaining shire councils: Staffordshire,
Lancashire, Nottinghamshire and ­Derbyshire. The loss of ­Derbyshire saw the
party removed from its safest county. There the Conservatives won 19 seats and
an overall majority of two.

The loss of these authorities means swathes of the  are now coloured blue. In
the West Country the Tories made progress against the Liberal Democrats, with
the control of Somerset and Devon easily passing to David Cameron's party. These
gains are important for the ­Conservatives, who were able to ­demonstrate they
can fight on two fronts at once, taking seats from the Lib Dems and Labour.

Other counties where Labour took a drubbing included Lincolnshire (-15
councillors), Lancashire (-27), Worcestershire (-14) and Warwickshire (-12). The
party was already weak across much of the south of England. It has now almost
died out in counties such as Buckinghamshire (0 councillors), Essex (1), Surrey
(1) and Oxfordshire (1). This feeble showing across southern England will make
it very hard for the party to fight parliamentary seats. Councillors are the
bedrock of such local political activism as remains.

The final tally of councillors is likely to see the Conservatives winning up to
200 extra council seats and Labour ­losing about the same number. Once the new
numbers are added to those already held , the Tories will have a national total
of just more than 10,000 councillors and Labour less than 5,000. Labour's figure
is the lowest since the local government reorganisation of 1974, that is, in
modern times.

The Conservatives have moved into a stronger position in the rural Midlands and
north. The party has not been this powerful in the shires since the late-1970s,
when the Callaghan government was in its death throes.

Cameron can legitimately claim to have made progress beyond the south-east,
though the Tory base in northern cities remains weak.

Because Thursday's elections took place only in English shire counties and
unitaries, with no local contests in Wales, Scotland, London and metropolitan
England, the results are not a precise representation of the national vote share
across the whole of Britain.

Professor John Curtice at Strathclyde University has, as in earlier years,
undertaken an exercise for the BBC that translates the results into a nationally
representative set of voting figures.

The national equivalent vote share put the Conservatives on 38%, the Liberal
Dems on 28%, Labour on 23% and "others" on 11%. Compared with 2008, the Tories
are down five points, Labour down one point, the Lib Dems up one point and
Others up by 5 points. In short, both Labour and the Conservatives have taken a
political hit compared with their position last year, while other parties,
notably the Lib Dems, have generally gained.

This shift of opinion is likely to be magnified when Sunday's European election
results come in. The fact that compared with last year's position the Tories
were hit worse than Labour will be seen as a lifeline for Brown.

There were sparks of individuality in places. A group of independents were
elected in Lincolnshire, a county where the ruling Conservative group had faced
problems in recent years. In Doncaster, an English Democrat mayor defeated
Labour.

Elsewhere, there were surges of Green and Ukip voting. The . All three of these
parties managed to pick up at least one county council seat for the first time.

The results were as if a chaotic sports match had ended in an incomprehensible
draw.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Labour hammered in elections as voters show their anger;
Main political parties hit by backlash over MPs' expenses scandal

BYLINE: Nigel Morris and Terri Judd

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 574 words


MINISTERS conceded early today that the Government had suffered a hammering at
the polls after early council election returns suggested Labour's vote was
sliding.

The Conservatives were on course to capture Staffordshire County Council from
Labour and strengthen their control of Lincolnshire, Tory sources forecast. The
Liberal Democrats won Kingsweston - a key target on Bristol City Council - from
Labour.

The early setbacks for the Government came amid signs that millions of voters
had shunned the last big test of public opinion before the general election,
suggesting the main political parties had been hit by a backlash over the
expenses scandal.

Party officials agreed that turnout in yesterday's European and local council
elections had fallen in most areas. They predicted last night that only about 30
per cent of electors would have cast a vote. The full results from councils will
be announced today, with the European results declared on Sunday.

Turnout in the last European elections five years ago was 38 per cent. A lower
figure this year could boost the prospects of smaller parties such as the Greens
and the British National Party.

This year, campaigning has been dominated by the furore over MPs' expenses, with
politicians reporting a "plague on all your houses" mood on the doorsteps.
However, Labour is expected to be hit hardest by the near-universal anger among
the electorate.

Areas with no local elections, including London and major cities, reported a
particularly slow start to polling.

The UK Independence Party, which hopes to beat Labour in votes cast for the
European Parliament, protested to the Electoral Commission after complaints from
voters that they did not realise the party was on the ballot because of how the
papers were folded.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, called for Michael Wills the Elections minister
to resign and threatened to take legal action demanding a re-run of the
elections in some areas.

In Derbyshire, until yesterday regarded as Labour's "safest" county council,
only one issue was on the voters' minds - MPs' expenses. Labour may have held
the council for 28 years but nobody was debating their track record on services
at the polling stations - they were far more intent on discussing the "thieves
and rogues" in Westminster.

"It is a bit like wanting to get a suntan and a tsunami has turned up and it is
the only show in town. You try to get people back on the beaches but you can't,"
said Labour councillor Dave Wilcox. A loss of seven seats when the votes are
counted today will mean the end of the party's overall control of the council.
Yesterday its only hope appeared to be that all the main parties were being
tarred with the same brush.

At Aston-on-Trent polling station, voters told The Independent they were
disillusioned and frustrated with the political system. "I feel pretty much the
same as everyone. They are all a bunch of crooks," said airline pilot James
Flack, 33, who voted Conservative in the council elections and UKIP in the
European ones. "At the end of the day if I was to defraud the tax man I would
probably lose my job, my house and go to prison."

Keith Yates, 73, was convinced the Tories would capture Derbyshire: "We are
looking at the mood of a nation. All the things that have happened over the last
18 months. It is diabolical how they have milked the system."

For local election results, news and analysis see tomorrow's Independent Euro
results on Monday

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                 2 Star Edition

KNIFED;
MINISTER NO5 QUITS..AND CALLS FOR BROWN TO STAND DOWN TOO

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 447 words


GORDON Brown was clinging to power by his fingertips last night after Cabinet
minister James Purnell quit - and urged the PM to do the same.

The Work and Pensions Secretary told Mr Brown he must step down to give Labour a
chance of beating the Tories at the election.

Mr Purnell is the third Cabinet minister to jump ship in three days. His shock
decision was last night seen as a killer blow for Mr

Brown. One Labour backbencher said the game was now up for the PM, adding: "He
now has to go. "He can't have the Cabinet collapse around him. He needs to
examine his conscience and then step down." Rebel Labour MP Graham Allen MP
said: "I think that you see tonight events really are moving very fast. "The
Labour Party now needs new leadership, fresh leadership. I hope that happens
with Gordon Brown's blessing. It is now time for a change." One shocked ally of
Mr Brown said of Mr Purnell's decision: "We genuinely did not think he'd do it.
We knew the rumours but thought it was gossip." The bombshell came immediately
after the polls for the local and European elections closed at 10pm. Earlier
Labour sources had admitted the party faced a massacre. In his resignation
letter, Mr Purnell told the PM: "I now believe your continued leadership makes a
Conservative victory more, not less, likely. "I am therefore calling on you to
stand aside to give our party a fighting chance of winning." Blairite Mr Purnell
stressed in his letter that he was not seeking the leadership of the party
himself - nor was his resignation part of a plot to oust the PM. His departure
comes 24 hours after Hazel Blears resigned as Communities Secretary and two days
after Home Secretary Jacqui Smith quit. Children's minister Beverley Hughes and
Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson have also gone. Downing Street last night did
its best to rally the troops. Europe minister Caroline Flint, another Blairite
and a close friend of Ms Blears, said she would not be resigning. She added: "I
am very proud to be part of Gordon Brown's government." Schools minister Jim
Knight added: "James Purnell is a good friend of mine but I fundamentally
disagree with him about his reasons for resigning." Brown loyalist Geraldine
Smith added: "I am absolutely furious at the gross disloyalty of these people."
Mr Brown is now expected to bring his reshuffle forward to today in a desperate
effort to steady the ship Labour sources last night said the party could lose
200 of their 445 council seats in the local elections and surrender control of
the last four country councils they control. The party could also be humiliated
in the Euro elections, potentially coming in fourth behind the Tories, the Lib
Dems and UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOING Purnell and letter, right, telling PM to quit WOUNDED Damaged PM
Gordon Brown FALL OUT Mr Brown with ex- Cabinet ministers James Purnell and
Hazel Blears

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                 2 Star Edition

WHO'S HIRED? WHO'S FIRED?;
SIR ALAN MAY JOIN GOVT IN DRAMATIC SHAKE-UP

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS; GRAHAM HISCOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 641 words


EMBATTLED Gordon Brown may hire Apprentice star Sir Alan Sugar as part of a
dramatic Cabinet shake up.

The tycoon held talks with the PM in Downing Street yesterday, sparking
speculation he could become the new business guru.

And last night, in a new blow to Mr Brown, Work and Pensions Secretary James
Purnell resigned and called on him to quit.

Sir Alan, 62 - who made his fortune from Amstrad electronics before securing a
second fortune in commercial property - arrived at No10 by chauffeurdriven Rolls
via a back entrance.

He has been a long-standing supporter of the PM and heads his Business Council
for Britain. Stephen Alambritis, of the Federation of Small Businesses, said:
"Sir Alan would be a gem of an appointment, a real coup for small businesses."

If the millionaire is offered a role in the reshuffle - now expected on Monday -
he will get a peerage and a Lords seat.

Asked about his visit, a Downing Street spokesman said: "He's a member of the
Business Council. The PM has regular meetings with businessmen."

But a No. 10 source said: "The Mr Brown is going to make big, big changes and
there will one or two surprises." Other changes may include:

Chancellor Alistair Darling -You're Hired...or at least you can keep your job!
There would be too much danger for the PM if he turfed out his close colleague
and MPs have been calling for him to be saved.

Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon - You're Fired! He's been caught in the exes
scandal and charged with flipping.

Universities Secretary John Denham - You're Hired! He's expected to get a big
promotion possibly replacing Jacqui Smith as Home Secretary.

Europe Minister Caroline Flint - You're Fired! She's been named as part of the
Petticoat Plot of women trying to get Brown out. Ministers want her out to show
the PM's authority.

Northern Ireland Secretary Shaun Woodward - You're Hired! The former Tory
Secretary is tipped for a top job after getting close to Mr Brown.

Welsh Secretary Paul Murphy - You're Fired! He could be replaced by a shock
return of Peter Hain.

Reshuffle fever came as Labour was braced for disaster in the Euro and local
elections, with one exit poll predicting it to come behind UKIP.

Today, backbenchers will break ranks to publicly call for Mr Brown to go. One
normally loyal MP Graham Allen told the Mirror time was up for the PM.

He said: "The party needs to listen to the electorate."

Asked if that meant Mr Brown must go, he said: "Yes".

Organisers of the "cyber coup" collecting names for an email demanding the PM's
resignation pleaded for others to step in and get him to quit.

One told the Mirror Sarah Brown was the key, adding: "Gordon now only listens to
Sarah and Peter Mandelson.

"Mandelson is not going to say anything, so Sarah should speak to Gordon over
the weekend and get him to do what is best for the party."

Another said it was time for the Cabinet to stand up and tell Mr Brown Labour
would do better without him.

"To be honest, we are just a peasants' revolt," he added.

"We can burn haystacks and destroy crops but we cannot deliver the coup de
grace.

"For that to happen, we need Cabinet members and have the cojones to do the
job."

But aides to the famously stubborn Mr Brown said he was not going anywhere. One
added. "His mood is determined." Business Secretary Lord Mandelson made a plea
for unity.

He said: "I know there are Labour MPs who are in a very grumbly mood but British
politics is in a bad old state.

"Don't please, through your actions, make it any worse for the Labour Party."

Another minister said: "When the mutinous MPs start thinking they will realise
if they get rid of Gordon Brown they will have to have a general election.

"Do they really want that when we are 20 points behind in the polls?" Meanwhile,
a new poll showed 66 per cent of the public wanted an election as soon as
possible should there be a change in leadership.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DETERMINED Mr Brown yesterday ALISTAIR DARLING CAROLINE FLINT PAUL
MURPHY GEOFF HOON SHAUN WOODWARD JOHN DENHAM SECRET Sir Alan's Roller at Downing
St

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

NIGHTMARE AS PERFECT STORM SINKS LABOUR

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 402 words


LABOUR last night admitted they were heading for catastrophic defeat in the
local and European elections held yesterday.

Party bosses said that early reports showed turnouts of their supporters were
low.

Labour fear they could lose 200 of their 445 council seats up for grabs.

Senior sources revealed that they were expecting to surrender all four county
councils they control when results are announced today - Lancashire, Derbyshire,
Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire.

Derbyshire will be a particularly bitter blow as it is seen as a flagship
authority in the East Midlands where there are dozens of marginal seats.

Its loss would mean Tory chief David Cameron was on course for a landslide at
the next General Election.

Yet a senior Labour source said: "It would be astonishing if we held it."

He admitted the elections will be "a nightmare" for the party as they were last
held when Labour were on a high.

The source went on: "Even without the economy and the problems with expenses,
these elections could have been designed for the Tories. They are uniquely
challenging for us."

The number of Labour Euro MPs - currently 19 - could be slashed dramatically
when European election results are announced on Sunday. And Labour could easily
fall behind both the Liberal Democrats and UKIP in their share of the vote.

Eve-of-election polling suggested Labour was heading for disastrous results with
the party registering just 16% of votes cast.

As many of the party's own supporters stayed home, there were signs that turnout
among non-Labour voters was high.

One Tory MP, Nadine Dorres, said: "Everyone is upbeat. Early indications suggest
Conservative turnout is excellent. The sun is shining, perfect election
weather."

And that could mean the BNP being squeezed out and unable to get 5% of the vote.

Dan Hodges, of anti-fascist organisation Searchlight, said he was optimistic,
adding: "In the North West turnout has seemed to be good and in some areas
appeared to be above the local elections last year. Turnout in London has been
quite good too."

Altogether, 2,318 council seats and three elected mayors are up for election in
England.

The Conservatives are defending 1,048 seats and 20 councils.

The Liberal Democrats, defending 370 seats in total, will be challenged by the
Tories for their only two councils of Somerset and Devon.

Mayoral contests at Hartlepool and Doncaster may both see the return of
independent candidates.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARAVAN CLUB Polling in Biggin, Derbys VOTERS Muslim and, right, Mr and
Mrs Cameron VOTES SHED Poll booth at Birmingham allotments

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Britain - Fears for low turnout as Europe heads to the polling booths

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 327 words


Voters across the country went to the polls yesterday to register their
preferences in European and council elections - although initial indications
suggested that the turn-out was lower than hoped for.

Low voter participation traditionally benefits smaller parties and, although the
results will not be announced until Sunday night, this adds to fears that the
BNP could make major gains.

The turnout was said to be especially low in those regions which were not
holding council as well as EU elections.

The Labour Party was anticipating disastrous results after recent polls placed
them behind the UK Independence Party in the Euro election forecast.

The latest Yougov poll put Labour support at just 16 per cent, behind the Tories
on 26 per cent and far-right party UKIP on 18 per cent. Disturbingly, the poll
put the fascist BNP on 5 per cent - enough to give it its first seat in
Brussels.

But Dan Hodges, of the anti-fascist organisation Searchlight, said that he was
optimistic of a strong turnout based on early indications.

"In the north-west, turnout has seemed to be good and - in some areas - it
appeared to be above the local elections last year," he said.

"Turnout in London has been quite good as well."

And the gloom deepened for Labour yesterday with a party candidate in Scotland
admitting that the party could be overhauled by the SNP at the European polls.

Labour candidate David Martin warned that the party faced "a very bad day" when
votes are counted on Sunday, possibly emerging with as few as 10 seats in
England.

He said: "It's only second-hand, but from speaking to colleagues south of the
border I think it's going to be a very bad day for Labour on Sunday.

"We could be down as low as 10 or 11 seats in England, perhaps 14 overall in the
UK."

The full results for the European elections will not be in until Sunday night,
after polls close in countries elsewhere in Europe.

The large majority of council election results are expected this afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Sharia is like Krays, by Tebbit

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


A TOP Tory yesterday compared Sharia law to punishments handed out by London's
East End gangster twins the Krays.

Lord Tebbit spoke out after the Government said the religious courts used by
some Muslims could help settle disputes.

Justice Minister Lord Bach told peers it was an option, adding that British law
would take over if Sharia judges could not resolve an issue.

But former Cabinet minister Lord Tebbit said: "A few years ago in the East End
of London there was a system of arbitration of disputes that was run by the Kray
brothers.

"Are you not aware there is extreme pressure put upon vulnerable women to go
through a form of arbitration that results in them being virtually precluded
from access to British law?" The exchange came after UKIP's Lord Pearson of
Rannoch had called for the minister to assure him "Sharia law will never take
precedence over British law".

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fury ... Lord Tebbit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 5, 2009 Friday 9:34 PM GMT

Labour collapse: here's what will happen next

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 613 words


The mortal blow has been struck, but the Prime Minister is taking an
unconscionably long time in dying. To return to my taurine metaphor, a fighting
bull will often remain on its feet for several minutes after the matador's blade
has found its aorta, refusing to accept its death, still trying to charge, its
muzzle clamped shut to hold in the blood. The PM, an unusually descastado
specimen, won't expire cleanly. In the end, the toreros will be driven from the
ring under a furious hail of cushions.

What will happen next? Sunday's results will show a marked swing to the Right.
The Conservatives will win handsomely, as I have predicted from the start.
Obviously, our share of the vote will be lower than at the county council
elections, but we'll do better than at the last Euro-poll - and, in my own
patch, at least, we shall win more seats. It is even possible that Labour will
be pushed into fifth place in the South East, meaning that I win my bet with
Guido. UKIP, in my region, will come second. The Greens will do well (and
deservedly so: Caroline Lucas is a brick). The two parties that campaigned on a
pro-Brussels ticket, Labour and the LibDems, will be clobbered.

Why should you listen to me? Well, ahem, I've been a lot more accurate than most
pundits about these local polls. I forecast substantial Tory gains, and my party
has now, to a single approximation, taken over the whole of non-metropolitan
England. It's not just that Labour has been obliterated: everyone expected that.
It's that the LibDems have done surprisingly badly, losing West Country counties
they had controlled for decades. I predicted, too, that the BNP would fail to
make a break-through, largely because its activists were too busy posting
obnoxious comments on this blog to do any campaigning. Sure enough, the fascist
party has won a grand total of, er, one seat.

How will Labour take its drubbing? If the party were a single organism,
concerned only for its own welfare, there would be no question. It would ditch
its leader, pick a successor whom the electorate liked and call an election at
once. It would still lose, obviously, but it would avoid obliteration. The
trouble is that Labour isn't a single organism. It is, as Richard Dawkins would
say, a collection of selfish genes. Each MP will act according to specific
incentives. Some, in marginal constituencies, will support any leader who might
save their seats. Others, knowing that they are going to lose in any event, will
want to keep their pay and pension contributions flowing for another year -
which will mean backing Brown, whose cowardice and immobilism render him unable
ever to call any kind of election. Yet others would rather be frontbenchers
under a loser than backbenchers under a winner.

This, incidentally, might explain why Alan Johnson is the front-runner. I've
never met the fellow, and he may be delightful in the flesh: MPs plainly like
him. But, in current circumstances, that's irrelevant. Most people will make a
snap judgment on the basis of a new leader's television persona. And the
candidate with the best such persona, as Frank Luntz demonstrated conclusively
with focus groups two years ago, is John Reid. But Labour MPs are not thinking
strategically. The genes are in full revolt; the cells are turning cancerous.

It's hard not to feel sorry for Labour MPs. Many among them are good people
doing their best for their constituents. Then again, they made themselves
collectively guilty when, in full knowledge of his faults, they pusillanimously
chose Gordon Brown as their leader. How predictable. How predicted. A cowardly
leader and a cowardly party, clinging timorously together as they plummet.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Disenchanted public elect to give the polls a miss

BYLINE: Jill Sharman; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 460 words


Initial reports of low turnouts at polling stations yesterday suggested that
many people had cast a protest vote by staying at home.

Before polls closed at 10pm for both the European and local elections, some
polling stations reported turnouts of about 30 per cent, one of the lowest in a
national election and 8 per cent down from the last European polls in 2004.

All the main parties are expecting a public backlash from the MPs' expenses
scandal but a low turnout is likely to disadvantage Labour most. Party officials
were busy last night depressing expectations and suggesting that Labour would
lose more than half its 490 county council seats and all its remaining four
county councils - Derbyshire, Lancashire, Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire.

Minor parties such as the Greens, the BNP and UKIP are expected to pick up some
council seats though they are more likely to benefit from a protest vote in the
European elections.

But the scale of any drubbing will only become apparent today when most of the
county council results are declared. Elections were held yesterday for
twenty-seven county councils and seven unitary authorities, five of which are
entirely new because of boundary changes.

Elections for the UK's 72 MEPs were also held but these results will not be
declared until Sunday night.

UKIP complained to the Electoral Commission and the Ministry of Justice
yesterday that the long ballot papers for the European elections were folded to
obscure the party's name.

Nigel Farage, its leader, called on Michael Wills, the Elections Minister, to
resign and threatened to take legal action, demanding that the elections be
rerun in some areas. "We are outraged that today's European elections had not
been contested on a free and fair basis," Mr Farage wrote to the minister. "We
have been swamped with upset voters who failed to find us on a ballot paper. In
many cases they have voted for other parties such as NO2EU and even the BNP."

Most ballot papers for the European elections included 15 to 19 parties, and in
London stretched to 3ft long. The possibility for confusion was high as many
parties had similar names. But UKIP is not contesting many council seats, so
voters may have searched in vain for its name on a county ballot paper. The
Electoral Commission said that it had had a complaint from UKIP and two from
members of the public.

A spokeswoman said that returning officers told staff at polling booths not to
fold the ballot paper, to avoid accusations of disadvantage. She pointed out
that the ballots were in alphabetical order and that large-print copies of
ballot papers, clearly showing the list of all the parties, were available.

Online

Live interactive election map

Picture gallery voters go to the polls

timesonline.co.uk/elections

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A lone voter leaves a polling station in Oxenhope, West Yorkshire,
yesterday. Many people stayed at home
LORNE CAMPBELL / GUZELIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Disenchanted public elect to give the polls a miss

BYLINE: Angus Macleod; and Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 433 words


Initial reports of low turnouts at polling stations yesterday suggested that
many people had cast a protest vote by staying at home.

Before polls closed at 10pm for both the European and local elections, some
polling stations reported turnouts of about 30 per cent, one of the lowest in a
national election and 8 per cent down from the last European polls in 2004.

North of the Border, fears were growing among the political parties in Scotland
that turnout for the European elections could even rival the record low set in
1999, when it was just under 25 per cent.

By early evening in both Glasgow and Edinburgh, turnout was said to be just 10
per cent. Although many voters traditionally wait until the evening before going
to the polls, it was thought that the final turnout in both major cities would
struggle to reach 20 per cent.

In one polling station in north-east Glasgow by mid-afternoon, only 56 voters
out of a possible 1,300 had come out to vote, according to one senior Labour
source.

However, both Labour and the SNP indicated that in other areas such as Fife and
Highland, turnout was higher than normal for a European Parliament election,
prompting hopes that the final overall figure would climb to around 25 or 26 per
cent. It was also being said by party officials that the final figure could also
be boosted by nigher-than-normal postal vote returns.

In three areas where council wards elections were also being held - Bishopbriggs
in East Dunbartonshire, Knightswood in Glasgow and Coatbridge, in Lanarkshire,
turnout was said to be higher than in the rest of Scotland and could reach 30-35
per cent.

In contrast to England, smaller parties such as UKIP and the British National
Party have a comparatively low profile in Scotland, and will not attract the
volume of protest voters, angry over the Westminster expenses scandal, as they
were expected to do south of the Border, thus depressing the Scottish turnout.

Scottish Conservative sources, however, were more hopeful than their Labour and
SNP counterparts, estimating the final turn-out in the high 20s.

Scotland will elect six of the UK's 72 MEPs this year, down from seven in 2004
because of the need to accommodate MEPs from the accession countries of Eastern
Europe.

Although the rest of Europe, England, Wales and Northern Ireland will know the
outcomes on Sunday night, the final Scottish result will be revealed only on
Monday because the Western Isles, with its strong Sabbatarian traditions, does
not count votes on Sunday.

Online

Live interactive election map

Picture gallery voters go to the polls timesonline.co.uk/elections

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A lone voter leaves a polling station in Oxenhope, West Yorkshire,
yesterday. Many people stayed at home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

Labour prepared for heavy losses amid low turnout

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 461 words


Labour was bracing itself last night for heavy defeats in both the local and
European elections.

Amid early indications of a very low turnout, party officials conceded that
Labour was likely to lose more than half its county council seats and all the
four county councils that it still held. There were even suggestions that some
counties in the south could lose all their Labour councillors.

Ministers blamed the expenses row rather than the Government's difficulties for
what are expected to be a disastrous set of results today.

Minutes after it emerged that James Purnell, the Work and Pensions Secretary,
had resigned from the Cabinet ministers attempted to turn the focus on to
expenses, which they said would affect each of the main parties. Liam Byrne, the
Cabinet Office Minister, said that Mr Purnell had misread the electorate. "The
public are going to be very clear. They will send a message to all political
parties, which is going to be seen in a rise in abstentions, a rise in the vote
of fringe parties and in some cases even extremist parties. The public will send
a clear signal: they want to sort out MPs' expenses."

Initial reports of low turnouts suggested that many people had cast a protest
vote by staying at home. Polling stations reported turnouts of about 30 per
cent, one of the lowest in a national election and 8 per cent down from the last
European polls in 2004.

Party officials were suggesting last night that Labour would lose more than half
its 490 county council seats and all its remaining four county councils -
Derbyshire, Lancashire, Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire. At least three of
these are expected to switch to the Tories.

The minor parties, such as the Greens, UKIP and BNP, are expected to pick up
several of the 2,000 councils seats being contested, although they are more
likely to benefit from a protest vote in the European elections. The scale of
Labour's potential losses will only become apparent today, when most of the
county council results are declared. Elections were held yesterday for 27 county
councils and seven unitary authories, five of which are entirely new councils
due to boundary changes. Elections for the 72 British MEPs were also held, but
these results will not be declared until Sunday night.

UKIP complained to the Electoral Commission and the Ministry of Justice that the
lengthy ballot papers for the European elections had been folded to obscure the
party. Nigel Farage, the party leader, called on Michael Wills, the Elections
Minister, to resign and threatened to take legal action. The Electoral
Commission said that it had received a complaint from UKIP and two from members
of the public.

Online

Live interactive election map

Picture gallery voters go to the polls timesonline.co.uk/elections

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A lone voter leaves a polling station in Oxenhope, West Yorkshire,
yesterday. Many people stayed at home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

NOW HAVE YOUR SAY

LENGTH: 837 words


EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY

TODAY, Britain goes to the polls in European and local elections. Many voters ñ
if they bother to turn out at all ñ plan to use the opportunity to give the main
parties a mammoth kicking over the MPs' expenses scandal. But could a protest
vote saddle Britain with another useless political class living off taxpayers?
Here, EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY explains how to make your vote ñ and your views ñ
count.

THE European Parliament's 785 MEPs ñ 78 sent from Britain ñ wield an increasing
influence over our lives.

Half of all legislation that affects us originates in Brussels. Although
Westminster is supposed to scrutinise it, MPs rarely bother. One of the best
chances to halt the EU bandwagon is by electing representatives who promise to
try to reform this overpaid, pompous talking shop. If the Lisbon Constitutional
Treaty is passed ñ and only Ireland is currently preventing ratification ñ the
Parliament will win even more power.

AS A voter, it's difficult to find a good European Parliamentarian ñ partly
because most of them are useless, and partly because of the over-complicated
voting process.

In Britain, we have what's called a 'closed list' system. Under this, parties
put up a maximum of ten candidates for each of 12 regions of Britain and list
them in order of preference. When votes are counted, the seats are allocated
between the parties in proportion to their share of the total vote. Depending on
how many votes they get, their first, second, third and so on choices will be
sent to Brussels.

SUPPOSE you live in the South-East and think that Dan Hannan, the Conservative
Eurosceptic MEP currently sitting for the area, is a good choice (which,
incidentally, he is). He is top of the Conservative list for the area where, in
the last European elections, the top four Tory candidates were elected. So if
you vote Conservative, it's very likely Mr Hannan will be elected.

MOST voters will put their trust in their favoured party to select good
candidates.

If you are sceptical about the EU, it's hard to support Labour ñ given that it
pushed through the Lisbon Constitutional Treaty which hands a huge amount of
power over to Brussels without bothering to hold the referendum promised by

Tony Blair. As for the Liberals, their leader Nick Clegg used to work for the
European Commission and loves Brussels.

Meanwhile, although some Tory candidates are Euro-enthusiasts, at least they've
promised to hold a referendum on Lisbon if David Cameron becomes Prime Minister
ñ provided it isn't set in stone by then.

THE polls show that many Britons will back minority parties in protest at the
antics of Westminster politicians. But their candidates may be just as corrupt
and useless as the Labour and Conservative incumbents.

UKIP, for example, won 12 seats in the European Parliament at the last
elections. Since then, one of their MEPs is appealing after being

prosecuted for benefit fraud, another is suspended over a benefits
investigation, and a third ñ Robert Kilroy Silk ñ left the party when he wasn't
made leader.

Of course, there are always the Greens as well as a couple of protest parties;
Libertas (Eurosceptics anonymous) and Jury Team (a coalition of independents, if
that isn't an contradiction).

THE North-East of England and London are the BNP's main target areas and to get
just one MEP it needs only 8.5 per cent of the vote.

The party is also looking to make some local gains; it already has 55
councillors and hopes ñ though this is unlikely ñ to gain control of Stoke city
council.

MEPs' expenses are even more generous than those in Westminster ñ up to £360,000
a year ñ and are handed out without any requirement to produce receipts.

And they've just awarded themselves a 20 per cent pay rise, taking salaries to
around £76,000 a year.

AT THE last EU election, only 38 per cent of those Britons entitled to vote
bothered to do so.

But our habit of not bothering about the EU elections ñ or treating them as a
referendum on the Government ñ has allowed all the main parties to send the
useless, the spineless and the hopelessly pro-EU to Brussels.

Comment ñ Page 14

LOCAL ELECTIONS

NOT all councils are holding elections; there are none in London or the other
main cities. But all of the 27 county councils ñ such as Devon, Dorset, Kent and
Shropshire ñ are. So are eight 'unitary authorities', where there are no
district councils. As most of the councils that are up for grabs are rural, the
Tories are defending 1,500 seats, compared with 500 for Labour.

COUNCILS spend £56billion of our money every year. Much of it comes from
Whitehall, but the balance is raised from the Council Tax. The average Band D
council tax bill has more than doubled under Labour to £1,414. No surprise when
more than 1,000 council staff earn more than £100,000 a year.

ASK yourself if you are happy with your council ñ for example, its policy on bin
collections and the size of the council tax increase. And don't rule out
independents, some of whom have been brilliantly representing their wards for
years.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

SPENCER'S EX FINALLY GETS HER DIVORCE

LENGTH: 1383 words


RICHARD KAY

AS Earl Spencer cements his relationship with the new woman in his life, widow
Bianca Elliot, his ex-wife Victoria has finally ended the anguish of her
nightmare second marriage to South African businessman Jonathan Aitken, a former
male model.

This week, Victoria, who was married to Princess Diana's brother for eight
years, was granted her divorce decree from Aitken, 43, whom she married four
years ago and by whom she has a son.

As I revealed, the marriage collapsed amid claims that recovering addict Aitken
had relapsed into old habits, and he moved out of the couple's luxurious marital
home in the upmarket Cape Town suburb of Constantia.

Then, in December Victoria, who has four children with Charles Spencer, served
Aitken with a summons asking for a divorce, claiming his conduct was
'irreconcilable with the continuation of a normal marital relationship' .

Aitken filed a counter-claim alleging his wife had admitted to an affair with
the British-born owner of an investment firm, James Clinch, 41.

Former cover girl Victoria, who previously suffered from anorexia and addiction
to drugs and alcohol -- she is now drug free and works as a counsellor --
insists her relationship with Clinch did not begin until after her marriage had
collapsed. Eventually, the couple agreed to settle their divorce out of court,
but the two men remain implacable enemies.

Two months ago, I disclosed how divorc$ Clinch had accused Aitken of threatening
to kill him and had applied to Cape Town's High Court for an order restraining
Aitken from coming near his children, office and home.

Aitken, meanwhile, has denied the allegations and has counter-claimed against
Clinch, suing him for 6250,000 for breaking up his marriage, claiming it would
compensate him for the 'loss of affection, comfort, society and services of the
said Victoria'.

BALL'S GLITZY GUESTLIST LED BY BARONESS THATCHER

THEY are the two former foes whose empathy triggered the end of the Cold War.
Now, 25 years later, Baroness Thatcher and the man she said she could do
business with, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, are joining hands again
-- this time as formidable charity fundraisers. They will be guests of honour at
a fabulous Russian-themed midsummer ball at Hampton Court which will raise money
for the Raisa Gorbachev Foundation. The charity helps children with cancer and
is named after Gorbachev's wife, who died from leukaemia. Proceeds will be
shared with Marie Curie Cancer Care. Poignantly, this year marks the tenth
anniversary of Mrs Gorbachev's death.

The lavish 615,000-atable event promises to be one of the most glittering
parties of the London 'season' and has been organised by a committee which
includes Madonna, Evening Standard proprietor Alexander Lebedev, his son Evgeny,
the artist David Hockney and Lady Rothermere, wife of Daily Mail & General Trust
owner Viscount Rothermere.

The glamorous guests, led by Sarah Brown, actress Emma Watson (pictured), JK
Rowling and London mayor Boris Johnson, will have a chance to bid for auction
prizes that include dinner with Gorbachev in Moscow, a Damien Hirst artwork, a
Fiat car designed by pop artist Sir Peter Blake and a daring lap dance by
comedian David Walliams.

MANDY'S DANDY 'LASER' SHOES

EVEN in times of crisis, he always likes to keep up appearances. So as well as
counselling the Prime Minister not to lose his nerve, Peter Mandelson has been
taking steps to remain well-shod for the coming troublesome weeks.

For the Business Secretary has, I hear, ordered a new pair of hand-cut,
custommade leather shoes. And to ensure they are a perfect fit, he had his feet
specially photographed in a laser measuring machine.

According to a fellow customer at Lodger Footwear in London's Mayfair, Lord
Mandelson has selected a pair from the shop's 'shoe of the month' special -- a
black leather slip-on from Italy, customised in length and width to his
dimensions.

Says shop owner Nathan Brown: 'I can't possibly comment on who our customers
are, but I can confirm that our customers' feet are measured in a laser box so
that we can get a 3D image of their feet to provide an absolutely perfect fit.'
And the cost? A snip at 6550. Surely we shan't be seeing this item on the noble
Lord's expenses?

MANDY'S DANDY 'LASER' SHOES

EVEN in times of crisis, he always likes to keep up appearances. So as well as
counselling the Prime Minister not to lose his nerve, Peter Mandelson has been
taking steps to remain well-shod for the coming troublesome weeks.

For the Business Secretary has, I hear, ordered a new pair of hand-cut,
custommade leather shoes. And to ensure they are a perfect fit, he had his feet
specially photographed in a laser measuring machine.

According to a fellow customer at Lodger Footwear in London's Mayfair, Lord
Mandelson has selected a pair from the shop's 'shoe of the month' special -- a
black leather slip-on from Italy, customised in length and width to his
dimensions.

Says shop owner Nathan Brown: 'I can't possibly comment on who our customers
are, but I can confirm that our customers' feet are measured in a laser box so
that we can get a 3D image of their feet to provide an absolutely perfect fit.'
And the cost? A snip at 6550. Surely we shan't be seeing this item on the noble
Lord's expenses?

SAM CAMERON JOINS THE GREEN PARTY...

JUST back from a half-term break in Ibiza with her children -- but without her
husband -- Samantha Cameron could compare tans with retail supremo Sir Philip
Green when they found themselves thrown together at an awards ceremony.

Sam bumped into the Monaco-based tycoon at the Glamour magazine bash in London's
Berkeley Square, where the Tory leader's wife won the magazine's accessories
designer gong for her work as creative director for upmarket stationery company
Smythson.

Sir Philip, alas, was not an award winner and he seemed a trifle baffled when
introduced to lofty model Jacquetta Wheeler. 'She works for you,' a fellow guest
reminded him.

SOCIETY decorator and social jester Nicky Haslam has added a new string to his
bow -- cabaret singer extraordinaire. But amid his repertoire of Cole Porter
performed to an audience at Bellamy's in Mayfair, there was a deliciously
naughty moment when he told the sort of joke that would make a duchess blush.

There were no duchesses present among the gathering, but there was a princess,
HRH Princess Michael of Kent. Happily, she laughed along as Haslam told a gag
too risque to repeat here. Among the other guests were Lord Freddie Windsor and
his actress fiancee Sophie Winkleman, Viscount Linley and Sotheby's chairman
Henry Wyndham.

SOCIETY decorator and social jester Nicky Haslam has added a new string to his
bow -- cabaret singer extraordinaire. But amid his repertoire of Cole Porter
performed to an audience at Bellamy's in Mayfair, there was a deliciously
naughty moment when he told the sort of joke that would make a duchess blush.

There were no duchesses present among the gathering, but there was a princess,
HRH Princess Michael of Kent. Happily, she laughed along as Haslam told a gag
too risque to repeat here. Among the other guests were Lord Freddie Windsor and
his actress fiancee Sophie Winkleman, Viscount Linley and Sotheby's chairman
Henry Wyndham.

RORY BREMNER will not 'black up' for his new impersonation of U.S. President
Barack Obama -- but insists it has nothing to do with political correctness,
rather a challenge too far. 'Wearing make-up never bothered me that much,' says
Bremner, 48. 'I've done it for Nelson Mandela and I've done it for Trevor
McDonald. With Trevor you've got the glasses and the moustache, and with Mandela
you've got the grey hair, but Obama's more difficult. He's got slightly odd ears
and I think there's a question about how much I can actually look like Obama.'

PS

BOOTED out of the Tories because of his support for UKIP, spread-betting tycoon
Stuart Wheeler received an unexpected email on the eve of today's Euro elections
-- a begging letter for cash from Conservative chairman Eric Pickles,
laboriously entitled 'every pound will help make Labour's next U-turn an EU
turn'. Old Etonian Wheeler, whose three stunning daughters have sadly been
absent from the hustings this time, replied: 'You may have forgotten that in
your last email to me you told me that I had been expelled from the party.'

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

SORRY, MRS CHIPMUNK, BUT SALFORD DOESN'TWANT

BYLINE: BY SUE REID

LENGTH: 1058 words


BACK in Salford, where Hazel Blears cut her political teeth and is ñ for the
moment ñ the sitting MP, she is known as 'the Chipmunk'. It is a reference not
only to her titian hair but to the animal's habit of hoarding far more nuts than
it needs for its own use and is just the sort of joke that the locals love. But
yesterday they weren't laughing any more.

Instead, a mood of anger was sweeping through the city after Miss Blears quit
the Cabinet declaring defiantly: 'I am going home to the people who matter most
to me ñ the people of Salford.'

It's fair to say that most of them don't want her 'home' any time soon. The
people in one of the poorest parts of Britain have watched with fury and
incredulity as revelations of her expenses unfolded.

The £13,000 unpaid capital gains on the sale of her second homes was just the
start. Then came the three Kit Kat Chunkies and a glass of wine from the
mini-bar of a posh hotel billed to the taxpayer at £7. And what of the expenses
for furniture, beds, widescreen TV, kitchen equipment and bath towels which
totted up over four years to £80,000?

As Stephen Kingston, editor of the Salford Star magazine, said yesterday: 'The
texts and phone calls are rolling in. They all say the same thing. They want
good riddance to Hazel Blears.

'She might talk now about the people of Salford. But everyone knows she only
turns up if there's a TV camera rolling. She is out of touch and there is a
groundswell of opinion that she has done nothing to help the locals.'

Hazel Blears would, no doubt, dispute this. She enjoys playing up her
working-class credentials which, she says, make her the perfect MP for Salford.
She was born in the city. Her father was a fitter and a lifelong trade unionist.
Her brother Stephen, four years older than her, is still a bus driver in
Manchester.

went to grammar school (although, of course, she doesn't approve of them) and
gained the 'must-have' socialist credential of being the 'first in my family' to
go to university.

On October 21 1989 she married Michael Halsall, a solicitor who introduced her
to motorcycling. They have no children.

Politically, it was onwards and upwards, as a Salford councillor and local
government solicitor who entered Parliament as a 'Blair Babe' in 1997.

Though she was more Blairite than Blair himself, under Brown the diminutive Miss
Blears became the high-profile Communities Secretary who was regularly wheeled
out to defend controversial policy ñ a task she invariably performed with chirpy
loyalty.

But her stock in Downing Street fell after she attacked Gordon Brown's bizarre
attempt to defuse the mounting expenses row by appearing on a video on YouTube.
In a newspaper article, she scorned Labour's 'lamentable' failure to get its
message across and criticised the Prime Minister by saying: 'You Tube if you
want to.' From then on her days in Cabinet were numbered. In apparent
retaliation, Mr Brown said she was guilty of 'totally unacceptable behaviour'
after the revelations about her expenses and her failure to pay capital gains
tax on her London homes.

Miss Blears sold a property in London Docklands in 2000 for £150,000, giving her
a profit of £35,000. She then bought another flat in South London for £155,000,
which she sold in August 2004 for £200,000, making a further profit of £45,000.
She had designated the properties as second homes for parliamentary expenses
purposes. But when it came to selling the flats, she told the taxman they were
her main homes, thus avoiding capital gains tax.

Her expenses receipts also revealed that she had 'flipped' her second-home
designation three times in a single year to maximise second-home allowances,
which she claimed up to the very limit on properties in London and Salford.

The people of Salford are as unimpressed as Gordon Brown by her serial house
flipping. As one email to the Salford Star remarked over her infamous promise to
repay the capital gains tax: 'Anyone else enjoying the sight of Hazel Blears
doing her 'ee, am from Salford me' while waving around a cheque for 13 grand
like a white flag of undignified desperation? Would she have written the cheque
if the story hadn't come out?' Another said: 'The sight of a public servant who
can ñ at the drop of a hat ñ dash off a current account cheque for £13,000 is
deeply unedifying. You can comply with the "rules" but the public are really,
really angry.'

That comes as little surprise. In Salford, unemployment is sky-high. Tens of
thousands are on the council house waiting list and 98 per cent of children in
one ward are officially deprived, according to a recent government study.

There is a perception that in 12 years as the MP, Hazel Blears has done nothing
to change that.

Last year, she jumped up and down when the BNP began to sweet-talk its way into
Salford hearts by offering free garden makeovers for the elderly and promising
more council housing. Dr David Cutts, a senior academic at Manchester
University's Institute for Social Change, warned that a significant swing to the
minority parties could claim Miss Blears's scalp at the next election ñ even
though her majority is more than 13,000.

poll, after the expenses debacle, revealed the extent of the revolt against
established party MPs. More than half of Salfordians now plan to vote for UKIP,
the BNP or the Green Party instead of Tory or Labour.

Salford has seen an increasingly buoyant BNP set up its stall in the mall on
Saturdays. Party workers hand out leaflets which are more moderate in tone than
in the past. One says simply: 'Teach the politicians who have ignored you a
lesson when you vote next.'

A huge Victorian building half a mile away (which used to be the Salford library
for working men and women) houses 53-year-old Hazel Blears's constituency
office. Directly outside her door is a small rack of public service leaflets.
'Keep clear of fraud,' says one. 'Who's eyeing up your money?'

Yesterday, as she arrived back in Salford, even this joke doing the rounds
hardly raised a grin.

MESSAGE IN A BROOCH

WITH this brooch, Hazel Blears cocked a final snook at Gordon Brown yesterday.

Hand-crafted in silver with deep blue enamel, it carries the legend 'Rocking the
boat' around its rim.

In a silver skiff sit a cat and a dog under a starry night sky. A silver lever
on the right-hand side even creates a rocking motion for the boat on stormy
seas.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

PM FACING DAY OF POLL DISASTER

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 949 words


LABOUR CRASHES TO 16% AND TRAILS UKIP IN EURO ELECTIONS

GORDON BROWN is heading for the worst performance by a government in modern
political history in today's European elections, according to a shock poll.

Labour support among those certain to vote has slumped to just 16 per cent, the
worst for the party since records began, raising the prospect that Mr Brown
might actually finish fourth.

His party is a humiliating two points behind the UK Independence Party among
certain voters and just one point ahead of the Liberal Democrats. The Tories are
ten points clear of Labour, according to the YouGov survey for the Daily
Telegraph.

If those findings are replicated when the results are announced on Sunday, Mr
Brown's position may become untenable. They would be Labour's worst result ever
in the European elections and the most abject performance by a sitting
government in a national poll since the Liberal government was wiped out in the
1918 general election.

The Prime Minister has already presided over a slump in Labour support to levels
well below

the 23 per cent nadir of Michael Foot's tenure, long seen as the most abject
period in Labour Party history.

Voters also go to the polls in local elections with Labour facing another
wipeout. They will contest seats in 27 English county councils, five new unitary
councils, the Isle of Wight unitary council, a third of the seats in Bristol and
mayoral elections in Doncaster, Hartlepool and North Tyneside.

Strategists in all the main parties expect Labour to lose the four remaining
councils it holds that are up for grabs in Lancashire, Derbyshire,
Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire.

Senior Labour figures predicted that Mr Brown will struggle to hold on to power
if Labour finishes behind the Liberal Democrats in the council polls and behind
UKIP, led by Nigel Farage, in the EU elections.

A former Labour whip added: ' People do not want to be seen to be doing anything
to damage him before the elections but when the results are in I think there
will be something inevitable about his fate.'

The survey of 4,014 people gave warning that fringe parties will benefit from
the MPs' expenses scandal. In total a third of all voters will support either
the UKIP, the Greens or the British National Party.

The Greens were tipped to pick up 10 per cent while the BNP could score 5 per
cent, enough to hand the far-Right party its first seat in Brussels if it can
concentrate its votes in the North-West, where leader Nick Griffin is running.

Public disillusionment with politics is also expected to result in low turnout,
probably below 30 per cent, making it likely that fewer voters will go to the
polls than cast their votes during Britain's Got Talent, which attracted
4million votes for the final alone.

Yesterday the anti-fascist campaign group Searchlight joined forces with Barack
Obama's online campaign team Blue State Digital to launch an unprecedented
e-canvass of 500,000 electors urging them to reject 'the BNP's message of
division and hate'.

A Searchlight spokesman said: 'Turn-out is the key. It's clear that people have
seen through the BNP's mask of respectability, and where they are seeking to
lodge a protest are turning instead to UKIP and the Greens.

'But the result is going to be on a knife edge, and the difference between the
BNP securing a seat in the European parliament is possibly going to come down to
no more than a couple of hundred votes.'

t.shipman@dailymail.co.uk

MORE MPS IN THE FIRING LINE

MORE politicians have been dragged into the scandal over controversial expenses
claims. They include:

BORIS JOHNSON: The London Mayor submitted a £16.50 claim for a Remembrance
Sunday wreath when he was Tory MP for Henley.

But Commons officials told him claims for wreaths were 'not allowed'. Mr Johnson
said the wreath had been 'mistakenly added' to his expenses claim.

He also claimed £85,299 secondhome allowance for his constituency house between
2004 and 2008.

ANN AND JOHN CRYER: The mother and son MPs claimed thousands of pounds of
taxpayers' money when classing a flat owned by relatives as their second home.

Mrs Cryer, Labour MP for Keighley, and her son, who was then MP for Hornchurch,
pocketed expenses on the Westminster flat in 2004.

The flat was owned by Mrs Cryer's daughter and son-in-law. In 2006 they sold it
for £635,000 ñ a £200,000 profit in five years.

Mrs Cryer paid her daughter £1,200 a month in rent while Mr Cryer claimed £400 a
month for food.

DOUGLAS CARSWELL: The Tory MP who spearheaded the campaign to topple Commons
Speaker Michael Martin claimed £655 for a 'love seat'. The Harwich MP used his
expenses to buy the 'Maximus' sofa in deep moss brushed cotton in 2007.

The backbencher joked that the money had been well spent because his wife had
recently given birth.

He charges taxpayers £1,250 a month to rent a house in his constituency which he
says is his second home. He also has a £1million flat in South-West London and a
property he rents in Hertfordshire. He said he believed he could justify every
claim.

SIR MICHAEL LORD: The deputy Speaker claimed more than £8,000 over five years
for his garden.

Sir Michael listed his constituency house in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich
as his second home.

The Tory backbencher said his gardening claims were 'all entirely legitimate',
adding: 'They involved removing dead and dangerous trees on the advice of the
local authority.'

LORD KIRKWOOD: The LibDem claimed £5,000 in expenses to spruce up his London
flat before selling it to his daughter for less than half its value after he
quit as MP for Roxburgh and Berwickshire at the 2005 general election.

He used public money to buy carpets, curtains and bathroom furniture for the
Westminster flat.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Brown fights for his life;
Another day, another Cabinet resignation as Labour email plotters seek to force
PM from office

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Investigation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096  words


GORDON BROWN faced a concerted attempt to force him from office last night as
Labour MPs circulated a letter calling for his resignation.

In a move that left the Prime Minister fighting for his political future, rebels
claimed that as many as 50 Labour MPs were prepared to put their names to an
email demanding that he step down.

Last night sources close to Nick Brown, the Chief Whip, said they suspected Paul
Farrelly, a backbencher, was one of the key figures "organising'' behind the
scenes, a claim he denied. Stephen Byers and Alan Milburn, two Blairite former
ministers, have also been implicated by those close to the Whip.

Details of what party insiders described as an attempted "cyber coup'' emerged
after the Prime Minister's authority was dealt a potentially critical blow by
the resignation of Hazel Blears, the Communities Secretary, as a sweeping
Cabinet reshuffle loomed. Alistair Darling was last night said to be resisting a
move to the Home Office, opening a dangerous rift between Mr Brown and his
Chancellor.

Miss Blears became the second minister to walk out of the Cabinet in as many
days, after the resignation of Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary. Their
departures left Mr Brown facing the most serious crisis of his premiership on
the eve of elections that will decide whether he stays as Prime Minister.

The timing of the resignation of Miss Blears - the day before the local and
European elections and just hours before Prime Minister's Questions - was
designed to maximise the political damage to an already severely weakened Mr
Brown.

In a provocative gesture, she even wore a brooch inscribed with the words
"rocking the boat''.

Her withering resignation statement made no mention of Mr Brown or the
achievements of his administration and talked instead of helping "the Labour
Party to reconnect with the British people'', clearly suggesting that she feels
the Prime Minister has lost touch with ordinary voters. One senior MP said:
"Most political attacks come from a knife in the back. Hazel stuck it in Gordon
in the front.''

She resigned a day after her friend, Miss Smith, also said she wanted to leave
the Government. Both had been under pressure over expenses claims they had made.

However, their resignations ahead of a reshuffle that will determine whether Mr
Brown still has the authority to lead his party triggered a move to force the
Prime Minister to step down in the interests of the party ahead of the general
election.

The unsigned email calling on Mr Brown to stand down states: "Over the last 12
years in Government, and before, you have made an enormous contribution to this
country and to the Labour Party and this is very widely acknowledged.

"However, we are writing now because we believe that in the current political
circumstances you can best serve the interests of the Labour Party by stepping
down as Prime Minister and so allowing the party to choose a new leader to take
us into the next General Election.''

It ends by saying that the message will not be published unless there are 50
names attached.

Many back-bench Labour MPs, and some members of the Government, spent yesterday
discussing a plan to force Mr Brown to step down to make way for Alan Johnson,
the Health Secretary. Rebels have been approaching backbenchers and suggesting
to them that Mr Brown could be replaced with Mr Johnson in a matter of weeks,
without the need for a lengthy leadership election.

The plotters say Mr Johnson would call an early general election, probably in
October.

Labour rules mean that challenging a sitting leader is extremely difficult,
requiring both the signatures of 71 MPs backing a single challenger and the
endorsement of delegates at a party conference.

One backbencher confirmed he had been approached. "I was asked if I'd like to
see Gordon go and Alan take over,'' he said.

A minister added: "The only alternative here is for Gordon to agree to go, for
Alan to take over and quickly call a general election.''

One former minister seeking to remove Mr Brown said: "The best option is for
Gordon to decide to go of his own accord. The second best is for the Cabinet to
force him to go, and the final option is some sort of letter.'' That final move
appeared to have begun last night.

Mr Brown is faced with carrying out a make-or-break reshuffle - possibly as
early as tomorrow. He is still considering replacing Mr Darling  with his close
ally Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary. At Prime Minister's Questions yesterday,
he repeatedly refused to say that Mr Darling would not be out of his job after
the reshuffle.

However, it was suggested by friends of the Chancellor last night

that Mr Darling would not accept another job. If he were to join Miss Smith and
Miss Blears by walking out of the Government before the reshuffle it would echo
Geoffrey Howe's resignation that led to Margaret Thatcher's downfall and would
probably spell the end for the Prime Minister.

Barry Sheerman, a senior Labour backbencher, said Mr Brown needed to act fast if
he was to head off a tide of disillusionment among MPs who were upset by his
"top-down'' approach and his failure to consult the Parliamentary Labour Party.

He said: "If you lose your base of support, and if even the Cabinet starts to
feel unhappy with the leadership of the Prime Minister, then that is one
indication of unhappiness and destabilises a regime.''

On another extraordinary day of turmoil at Westminster:

* David Cameron called for a dissolution of Parliament and an immediate general
election.

* Miss Blears confirmed that she had lawfully avoided paying capital gains tax
on another designated second home. She and her husband made at least  pounds
80,000 in profit tax-free from the sale of two flats that were successfully
designated as her second homes for expenses purposes.

* Labour prepared itself

for what could be its worst performance at the polls

in a generation at today's

local and European elections.

A new YouGov poll for

The Daily Telegraph shows

that Labour could finish behind the UK Independence Party in the European
elections.

Among people certain to vote, Labour can count on

just 16 per cent support,

just ahead of the Liberal

Democrats on 15 per cent and less than Ukip, which stands on 18 per cent.

The Conservatives are expected to remain the largest British party in the
European parliament with 26 per cent of the vote.

The poll also shows that all parties have, however, been affected by the scandal
over MPs' expenses, with voting intentions for a general election showing the
Conservatives down from 43 to 37 per cent and Labour down from 27 to 21 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

JACQUI SMITH;
We face a mauling but a coup is not the answer, says Smith

BYLINE: Matthew Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Cabinet Meltdown; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 294  words


JACQUI SMITH, the outgoing Home Secretary, has backed Gordon Brown to continue
as Prime Minister but admitted Labour would face a mauling at the polls.

Speaking for the first time since her resignation was leaked, Miss Smith
defended her decision to step down but said she was angry that the news had
emerged ahead of the imminent reshuffle.

Westminster has been rife with rumours that her exit was disclosed by Hazel
Blears, the Communities Secretary, to add to the damage inflicted on Gordon
Brown by her own resignation before today's local and European elections.

Of her decision, Miss Smith said: "It says nothing about my view of the Prime
Minister which remains of the utmost respect.''

Miss Smith, who has been criticised for her expenses claims, confirmed that she
informed Mr Brown at Easter of her intention to step down for personal reasons.
This was shortly after it was disclosed that she had billed the taxpayer for two
pornographic films watched by her husband.

"I would rather that it hadn't come out yesterday,'' she said. "I talked about
it with him [Mr Brown] and we agreed the way we were going to handle it.''

She added that Mr Brown "can and should'' stay on as leader even if Labour
suffered a disastrous result at the polls, and urged fellow MPs not to attempt a
coup. But she conceded that the party faced a "really tough election''.

Labour are predicted to lose control of all four of their remaining county
councils, and could be pushed into fourth place behind the Liberal Democrats and
Ukip in the EU vote.

"I hope people who support us and our values . . . will get out and vote Labour
tomorrow, but I know it's going to be a really hard election,'' said Miss Smith,
who will focus now on retaining her Redditch seat at the general election.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Cameron can lead us out of the mess we're in

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 416  words


Elections to the European parliament and to local councils in England take place
today against a backdrop of worrying levels of public despondency with politics
as a whole. Certainly, judging by our YouGov poll, the mainstream parties have
all been affected by the expenses scandal of recent weeks and by a general air
of disenchantment. Support for the Conservatives has fallen from 43 per cent to
37, and for Labour from 27 per cent to 21. The Liberal Democrats seem to be
making no inroads. In the Euro-poll, Labour risks becoming the first governing
party to trail in fourth in a national election.

Add to this mix a widespread indifference to most things European among the
electorate, and there is the prospect of both a low turn-out today (though it
might actually be higher than last time) and an inflated vote for fringe
parties, notably Ukip. Although a large proportion of our laws start life in
Brussels, it is tempting to dismiss the importance of the European elections.
The parliament, despite enhanced powers, has little influence over the
federalist tendencies of the European Union; indeed, it is complicit in them,
since most of the parties in the assembly favour the aspiration of ever-closer
union, as set out in the Treaty of Rome.

That is why the Conservatives are to be commended for breaking away from the
European People's Party grouping in an attempt to forge a new, centre-Right,
non-federalist alternative, which can speak for the many millions across Europe
that simply feel disenfranchised. The suggestion that this might mean sharing a
platform with some of the loopier continental political parties should not
distract David Cameron from his purpose, which is a good one.

Indeed, we hope that the Conservatives do well, both in the Euro-elections and
in the shire contests in England. Mr Cameron deserves electoral reward for what
has been an impressive and steady performance in recent months.

The Conservatives have been hit just as hard as Labour by the expenses scandal;
but Mr Cameron has handled the ramifications for his party in a firm and
unambiguous manner that has both wrong-footed Gordon Brown and shown up the
inadequacies of the Prime Minister's response. In the House of Commons, the Tory
leader is effective and confident. He is beginning to demonstrate the qualities
of leadership that the country craves and for which they need to be given the
chance to vote in a general election. A vote for the Conservatives today would
be good for the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

EURO ELECTIONS;
Poll puts Labour behind Ukip as voters prepare to shun EU election

BYLINE: Damien McElroy, Bruno Waterfield and Matthew Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Cabinet Meltdown; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 583  words


LABOUR could finish behind Ukip in today's European elections, according to a
YouGov poll for the The Daily Telegraph, which indicates that the governing
party could be pushed into fourth place.

The poll shows Labour in a race with the Liberal Democrats for third. Among
people certain to vote, Labour can count on just 16 per cent support, just ahead
of the Liberal Democrats on 15 per cent and less than Nigel Farage's anti-EU
party, which stands at 18 per cent.

The Conservatives are set to remain the largest British party in the European
Parliament with 26 per cent of the vote.

This is marginally down from the 27 per cent the party secured at the last
European election in 2004, suggesting that some supporters are deserting to Ukip
.

The survey was taken on Tuesday and yesterday, after the news of Jacqui Smith's
resignation as Home Secretary. Labour won 19 out of 78 seats in 2004 but seems
certain to see its number of MEPs substantially reduced.

The number of seats avaliable is now 72 because of EU enlargement.

A former Conservative Party treasurer has become the latest Tory grandee to
indicate that he will back Ukip. Lord Kalms said that he was "considering
lending'' his vote to the eurosceptic party.

The YouGov poll of 4,014 people also supported predictions that some minor
parties could benefit from the MPs' expenses scandal; it put the Greens on 10
per cent and the BNP on 5 per cent, which could be enough to give the far-Right
party its first seat in Brussels. The European Commission has predicted that
only 34 per cent of the eligible electorate will vote, a dramatic drop from the
45 per cent turnout at the last election.

Officials have blamed a series of "distractions'', from local economic woes to
fringe candidates dominating national campaigns, for the sliding interest among
the 375 million eligible voters.

Voters in 27 countries will elect 736 MEPs over four days, with results due to
be released on Sunday night. There has been a lavishly funded promotion campaign
that has cost up to  pounds 30 million.

Brussels has even brought in Europe's orbiting astronaut, Frank De Winne, who
made a call from space to call on voters to participate. "I'm Frank De Winne: a
European citizen and an astronaut from the European Space Agency and I'm in
space right now,'' he said. "Europe looks united and great from up here.''

Among the EU's leaders only Germany's Angela Merkel is expected to have a smooth
run, having campaigned on European issues.

Elsewhere campaigning has been dominated by anger at the political establishment
over the state of the economy.

Ireland's main governing party, Fianna Fail, could see its vote collapse, a
development that could trigger a general election.

The campaign in Italy has been struggling to attract voters' attention amid
allegations about the relationship between Silvio Berlusconi, the prime
minister, and a teenage model and the announcement of his divorce. Fringe
candidates have dominated the headlines elsewhere. Elena Basescu, the daughter
of Romania's president, Traian Basescu, and another part-time model, is standing
as an independent. In Sweden, voters have been wooed by the Pirate Party which
wants to change copyright laws to permit filesharing on the internet.

The vote has been so fragmented that one of Europe's leading sceptics, the Czech
president, Václav Klaus, yesterday called for the whole system to be abolished.

"It's pointless to have European elections,'' he said. "That's like holding
semi-elections.''

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: LW; 40

LENGTH: 764 words


kylie why woman of the year at glamour awards? All she's done is copy madonna
who got No 1 album, No 1 single n a sell-out tour. diane surrey So called TV
presenter Alexa Chung picked up a glamour award well who fixed that 1 then. Mark
well said chantelle! i was horrifi ed seeing that jordan monster winding up poor
little junior over eating his pet snail! cruel heartless woman! jill how dare
chantelle slag jordan off sayin its her fault pete left is she 2 thick 2
remember her husband did the same 2 her not so long ago! Lou lpool As a Labour
supporter (only just mind you) i am delighted to see the smug Jacqui Smith
having to stand down. That smile finally been wiped off her face. James,
Edinburgh MPs should go now with no golden handshake after stealing taxpayers
money. my votes on ukip after 40 yrs lab. hartland labour has made my mind up
for me they just spent 10 mins telling us what the tories wont do but told us
nothing constructive about what they will do. Grumpy Oap just seen labour party
pol b'cast. All i c was knock tories. No mention wot labour gonna do for our
future hopes/dreams.

No talk of being paid back after being robbed by thieving bankrs obviously ok'd
by gov. shazbaby 4get crooked mps & BGT, ther just a distraction. Look @ price
of FUEL!

Above GBP 1 per ltr again. If mps wana apologise, lower the price! FORBZ 2 paul.
Anti-muslim protesters wore masks cos police arrest them at drop of a hat. 2
scared of being called rac ist 2 arrest muslim protesters. brumbob Well said
freddie fl intoff on immigration, when are the Government gunna wake up to this?
Too busy ripping us off no doubt. Al Exeter How sad, the young couple jumping
off Beachy Head after the death of their child. Where was the help for them?
Puts this stress into perspective that these so called contestants get during
their reality tv performances. OZ nice to see the multi talentless davina MCall
back for another brain numbing series of big brother. Time to have the cataracts
re-fi tted. SCUTCH WEN IS C4 GOIN 2 GET RID OF BORING TRIPE BB PLUS THAT
DREADFUL CHILDISH GOBBY DAVINA McCALL OFF TV 4 GOOD. SUE can someone explain how
diversity won britain's got talent because flawless were equally as good if not
better amanda holden is well fi t. DEREK to rios top lip u must live a boring
life m8 15 million ppl watched bgt so we are all braindead dont think so m8 its
good fun. maddscottish How sad missing B.G.T already Scooby Bez: r u serious?
Strippers etc undermine womens' equality as the work panders 2 male
gratification - hardly feminist. A Feminist Enjoyed pics of bull goring matador
thx. Now can u arrange 4 whales 2 turn on whaling boats?

GALAXYBABE Big ben is the nickname of the bell - not the clock tower. No wonder
the country's ******.

nick the spark just bin in hospital 3 days with kidney stone, doc said pain as
bad as childbirth! Must be worse or how come women go back and have another? TAT
Dougs could u please leave ur trainers outside from now on.

Kids r gettin fed up with the whiff. Lol!

sexy dons belfast girls just put the toilet seat down, it's not that hard, you
don't hear blokes moaning that you've left the seat down again. riggersg1 Don't
you think the lass in this weeks Daily star photo case book looks like
Emmerdale's Deena Payne, aka Viv Hope? Yorkshire Pudding Many apologies Lindy
Lou & Christine Daae. Just back from London after seeing these 2 great stage
musicals. Must've got my wires crossed! Doh!

Sorry 2 Amanda too! Northern Tyke Why dont supermarkets chill beers section? TUM
WHITEHAVEN I just got buzzed by a flying saucer.

That's the last time I use a Greek restaurant! BLONDIE any 1 else want 2 ban
sunday lunch music in pubs an restaurant do we have 2 shout 2 b heard. peace To
lee notts i wen to ayia napa last year the best clubs is da castle and titanic
also der is a fl intstones bar u shud check that out and yes u can get the star.
lisa ayia napa is fantastic just head 4 the square and u wont go wrong pal its
ful of bars and clubs. JIMMY re lee notts star costs 2.80. all the clubs and bar
are gud but very dear. bring plenty of euro's with ya. ricky n'belfast rite
girls of newcastle 12 sexy hunks fi eburgh cumin down on sat were do u want 2
meet and wot time. mike Whats all the fuss about trying to get famous on BGT,
BB, etc! Do what i did n text the dstar forum page, ive been famous for 6 years
now! Cant walk into a pub now without any 1 asking r u ALAN SMALL thats always
in the dstar. ALAN SMALL EDINBURGH i read da dstar every day, so fort i would
send a txt for once to see if i can get on the forum! aaron widnes

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Any chance Vergara? Her curves are amazin. AL Blackpool

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GO NOW;
Labour MPs tell Brown he must quit for the sake of the country

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 675  words


GORDON Brown was last night on the brink of being overthrown in an unprecedented
Labour uprising.

Around 100 Labour MPs were ready to sign a letter circulated by email, urging
the Prime Minister to quit - for the sake of the country.

The brutal coup attempt began to snowball earlier y esterday after the vengeful
shock resignation of Cabinet Minister Hazel Blears.

She quit the Government on the eve of today's critical Euro and local elections
in a calculated bid to cause the maximum damage to Mr Brown, becoming the fourth
minister to resign in a sensational 24 hours.

Communities Secretary Ms Blears made clear her desire to destabilise Mr Brown by
hitting the campaign trail yesterday wearing a brooch bearing the words "Rocking
The Boat".

In an increasingly febrile atmosphere of plotting at Westminster, Labour rebels
claimed at least 80 backbenchers had already promised to sign the message urging
the Prime Minister to go.

In a demonstration of open mutiny, the architects of the plot leaked their
letter to journalists. Their email said: "Dear Gordon, over the last 12 years in
government, and before, you have made an enormous contribution to this country
and to the Labour Party, and this is widely acknowledged.

"However, we are writing now because we believe that in the current political
situation, you can best serve the Labour Party and the country by stepping down
as party leader and Prime Minister. And so allowing the party to find a new
leader to take us into the next general election." The plotters believe up to
100 MPs, enough to trigger a Labour leadership contest, will back the mutiny as
soon as polls close tonight. They believe this will tip dithering ministers to
tell the PM to quit.

Yesterday Mr Brown's attempt to reshuffl e his Cabinet appeared to be derailed,
with Chancellor Alistair Darling and others said to be resisting any move to
switch their jobs.

Friends of Mr Darling insisted he was determined to continue at the Treasury
despite being damaged by the expenses row.

He and other ministers are understood to be particularly outraged at the
prospect of Cabinet bruiser Ed Balls getting the Chancellor's job.

In a sign of growing desperation, Mr Brown was reported to have asked old foe
John Reid to return as Home Secretary.

Mr Reid is understood to have declined.

Mr Brown is braced for Labour's worst election trouncing in a century today in a
backlash over MPs' expenses and blunders on the economy. Labour could even slump
to fourth place, behind the Tories, Lib Dems and Ukip.

Last night senior Labour backbencher Barry Sheerman joined those openly
criticising the Prime Minister.

He said: "At the end of the day you alienate your Parliamentary party at your
peril."

Mr Sheerman said many in the party harboured a "deep resentment" about his
decision to make a key policy announcement about Parliamentary expenses on
YouTube rather than in the House of Commons.

Former minister Lord Falconer hinted the leadership battle may begin as polls
close.

The former Lord Chancellor declined to back Mr Brown in a BBC interview, and
admitted he agreed with a newspaper article calling for the Prime Minister to
stand down but did not want a leadership change "today". He was later seen in
conversation with Brown detractor Charles Clarke over coffee. .

Westminster sources said the coup attempt was formulated a year ago, but was
postponed when the banks crisis erupted.

Many Labour MPs and ministers are convinced their party will be destroyed at a
general election next year if Mr Brown is not forced out of offi ce.

The plotters want Health Secretary Alan Johnson - an easy-going former postman
untainted by the expenses scandal - to replace Mr Brown.

He was forced to deny he was angling for the job yesterday, saying "absolutely
no one" could do the job better than the current Prime Minister.

Mr Brown came under savage attack during angry clashes in the Commons. Tory
leader David Cameron urged him to "get down to the Palace, ask for a
dissolution, call an election."

And Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg declared "Labour is finished."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A tense Mr Brown slips into No10 via a back entrance yesterday while a
vengeful Hazel Blears sports a Rocking The Boat badge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Front: Labour in crisis: Can he survive? Ten questions that may decide Brown's
fate: Jackie Ashley examines the key issues that Labour must consider over the
next few days

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1152 words


1 Can the backbenchers' plot succeed?

They will only succeed if they manage to involve more than just the "usual"
suspects among their number. Those already signed up to the backbenchers' email
include known Blairites who have never forgiven Brown for his treatment of their
hero, and general troublemakers. There are plenty of mainstream MPs who are
saying in private that they think Brown should go, but the rebels are still not
sure how many of them will, in the end, speak out publicly. But if momentum
continues to build, more and more of them will think the game is up. They need
80.

2 Is anyone in the cabinet prepared to move against Brown?

Not yet - this is a cabinet that has proved itself supine time and time again.
But it will depend on the shape of the reshuffle. There is nothing like thwarted
ambition to make a cabinet minister discover disloyalty. Several cabinet
ministers feel they have been badly treated by Brown. If it gets to the stage
where bad election results and the backbench campaign are looking very grim for
Brown, some in the cabinet will belatedly jump on the bandwagon. Just don't
expect to find them driving it.

3 Can Brown afford

to replace Darling

with Balls?

This has been the plan for several months and Brown would still like to put his
most loyal ally into the Treasury if he feels strong enough. Several ministers
believe it is no coincidence that the Telegraph - known to be on good terms with
Ed Balls - held back part of its story about Alistair Darling's expenses until
this week in an attempt to destabilise him close to the reshuffle. But the plan
seems to have backfired; many MPs and ministers have made it clear that putting
Balls in the Treasury would be the last straw for them.

4 Is this all just another chapter in the old

Blair-Brown wars?

Yes and no. There is no disguising the glee among some Blairites at the current
state of affairs, and many of those leaving or making trouble were close to Tony
Blair, including Patricia Hewitt, Beverley Hughes and Hazel Blears. But Brown
has managed to make some enemies all of his own. Several ministers who used to
be seen as "Brownies" have found themselves briefed against in the press,
notably Douglas Alexander, who was fingered for the election that never was,
Alistair Darling and Harriet Harman. Despite this, they have remained loyal in
their public pronouncements, but you have to wonder what they really think.

5 How badly does

Labour have to do in

the locals/euro election

to seal Brown's fate?

Everyone will be looking at Labour's overall share of the vote. Right now it's
hard to find anyone who expects the party to do better than come third. But
those who have been out on the doorsteps believe it is not impossible that
Labour will come fourth, behind the Conservatives, the Lib-Dems and Ukip. The
party could also end up with control of no English county councils. That would
be curtains for Brown. So too would a share of the vote below 20%. And many of
the plotters are using success for the BNP as a measure of Brown's failure: one
or more seats in Europe for them would definitely focus Labour minds.

6 Is there any evidence that a new leader would improve Labour's election
prospects?

Recent polls suggest no potential Labour leader will have much more success than
Gordon Brown in turning round Labour's fortunes. But never underestimate the
novelty factor. A new leader, with a new cabinet in place, could move swiftly to
try to deal with the expenses scandal. He would have to be brutal in his
treatment of MPs with dubious expenses. Learning from Brown's mistakes in recent
weeks he (and it will be a he) could announce strict new rules for MPs and
really make some progress on constitutional reform, instead of setting up yet
more committees. Even so, given Labour's dire position at present, the best he
could hope to achieve would be a hung parliament.

7 Can Labour really elect another leader without a leadership election?

The majority view is that Alan Johnson is the man to take over the leadership,
at least as an interim measure until the next general election. Despite his
protestations of reluctance, he wants the job - he just doesn't want to have to
fight for it. Not surprising, since he's still recovering from being beaten into
second place by Harriet Harman in the deputy leadership campaign. Of course, he
would like to be anointed, but if, after Brown's departure, there is a great
clamour for an election from the party, the press or the public - he would
almost certainly stand. So too would a Miliband, James Purnell and Harriet
Harman.

8 Would a new leader have to call an election immediately?

The Tories and Brown loyalists insist he or she would, but in truth a new leader
would probably be able to buy a few months of breathing space to establish
himself before going to the country. Technically he or she wouldn't have to call
the election until next May, and could silence the calls for an immediate vote
by announcing the poll date. Even if the leader did not set a date, they could
probably fend of the calls for an imediate poll until the conference season. By
then the demands for a poll are likely to start up again and the new leader
might be well advised to heed them by then, since every new leader enjoys a
little bounce in the polls during their honeymoon. That may be as good as it
gets.

9 Would the Lib Dems collaborate with a new leader on issues like electoral
reform?

They would like to tell you they wouldn't, but the Liberal Democrats are as
opportunistic as everyone else in politics. They know only too well that the
only real hope of electoral breakthrough for them lies in electoral reform. So
although they would sound a bit sniffy about co-operating with Labour, you can
be sure that "channels of communication" would be opened up between the two
parties. If both Labour and the Lib Dems see PR as the only way of depriving the
Conservatives of a big majority at the next election, it will soon be presented
as a great radical move. It would have been in 1997 had Labour not won by such a
big margin.

10 Do any of the potential leaders have any big ideas?

For all of them the biggest idea is "make me prime minister". But of the likely
candidates, health secretary Alan Johnson makes the least claim to be an
intellectual. He would steady the ship and loosen No 10's control over
government, just because it is not in his character to be controlling. James
Purnell, the work and pensions secretary, would continue the Blairite revolution
with more marketisation in public services and a further crackdown on
scroungers. The most original thinker in the field is Ed Miliband, the climate
change secretary, one of the few in cabinet who "gets" the New Politics. He is
admirably passionate about devolving power and about climate change. But he has
just (two days ago) become a doting dad, and may well defer to his older
brother, David, in a leadership election.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Front: Labour in crisis: A long time in politics: Brown's make-or-break weekend

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words


Thursday

The calm at the eye of the storm, as Britain votes. Any more resignations today
would spell mayhem. Watch out for reports of turnout: are Labour voters staying
at home? Initial reports will be anecdotal: the full figure won't emerge until
Monday. But in 2004 38% of people voted - if this drops, opposition parties are
likely to gain. Polls close at 10pm. Two council results - the three-way battle
for Bristol between the Lib Dems, Labour and Tories, and the new unitary council
in Central Bedfordshire, will come in after midnight. Neither will be a reliable
test of Labour support, although Labour may lose every seat in Bedfordshire in a
Tory clean sweep. Brown will fear rebels loosening their tongues as polls close.

Friday

D-day - and maximum danger for Brown. Local council results from Eng land come
in: will Labour suffer a wipeout and lose at least half its 500 seats? That will
set the mood for Brown's reshuffle - if the cabinet allows him to make it. Key
tests: do any more ministers walk out? How will Alistair Darling take the sack?
Can Brown make Ed Balls chancellor as he wants? Filling all the jobs will be a
challenge.

Keep an eye on David Miliband and Alan Johnson - will they make it clear they
want to stand? Meanwhile, don't forget the Tory local election results: if the
party struggles, losing seats to Ukip and scoring no more than a third of the
national vote, Cameron cannot be sure of a general election majority.

Saturday

MPs will be in their constituencies talking by phone and email. Labour MPs are
already signing a round-robin letter asking Brown to go. If it passes 20% of the
parliamentary party (about 70 MPs) a contest will be triggered. Meanwhile
everyone will be waiting for the European results. If a reshuffle is under way,
junior posts could be filled.

Sunday

The TV shows and papers will be crucial. Do Labour MPs call for Brown to go - or
will there be a retreat from this week's chaos?

European election votes will be counted from 9pm. By midnight it will be clear
how badly Labour and the Tories have done. If a Ukip or Lib Dem surge pushes
Labour into third or fourth, will the party blame Brown or his critics, whose
resignations before polling day were so destabilising? A key test will be the
gap between Labour and the Tories. If both parties' vote shares are in the 20s,
Labour can claim to have come off well. If the Tories' score begins with a 3 or
4, and Labour's with a 1, it will be judged a disaster.

Monday onwards

Assuming Brown has lasted the weekend, and the reshuffle is complete, this day
will test the resolution of his critics. Dare they sustain the rebellion, or
will Labour lick its wounds and back the new cabinet? Assuming there is a new
chancellor, their first test will come at 2.30pm on Tuesday, at Treasury
questions in the Commons. On Wednesday MPs debate an opposition motion demanding
a general election - one backed by the Tories and Lib Dems. Brown is expected to
win, but the timing is very unhelpful.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

G2: Your cut-out-and-keep guide to the Euros: The ballot paper for today's
European elections is a daunting 3ft-long. Who's standing? What are the big
issues? And what are the chances for Animals Count? Tim Dowling attempts to cut
through the confusion: Choices, choices . . .

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1156 words


It's Thursday . . . Thursday, 4 June. Now wasn't there something you were
supposed to do today? Renew your tax disc, attend a disciplinary hearing, visit
the dentist - something like that? Wait, that's it: there's an election going
on. Not one of those really important ones, but big enough to warrant pullout
sections in the newspapers. Did you happen to see any of those?

Perhaps you haven't actually thought much about how you intend to cast your
vote. You may even be thinking that given your studied ignorance on the matter,
the democratic process will be far better off without your participation, no
matter how close all our parliamentary

institutions are to meltdown.

But you're wrong. Democracy needs you - especially as the system favours smaller

parties, which could mean the BNP is in line for a strong showing. A
record-breaking turnout is expected for today's European parliamentary
elections, and provided you have at some point actually registered your
eligibility to vote, all you have to do is find out where all the

voting is happening (try your local council's

website), go down there and put your mark on

the 3ft-long ballot paper. And to save your

blushes when you reach the polling station,

here's everything you need to know about the elections but are afraid to ask for
fear of being branded, well, an idiot.

So what are we voting for again?

We're voting to fill Britain's seats in the

European parliament in Strasbourg (and sometimes Brussels) - 72 MEPs divided
into clusters by region. In addition, there are local elections in 34 councils
(but none in Wales, Scotland or London) and three mayoral races: Hartlepool,
North Tyneside and Doncaster. MEPs will be elected under a system of
proportional representation.

How does proportional representation work?

The short and sensible answer is "Who knows?", and the long answer is boring, so
a sketchy outline must suffice: after the vote is counted in each region, MEPs'
seats are allotted in rounds until they run out. In the first round, the first
seat goes to whichever party got the most votes (ie not Labour). In subsequent
rounds a seat is awarded to whoever has the most votes, but only after each
party's count is divided by the number of seats they've already won,

plus one.

Still with me? So in the second round, a party that has earned a seat will have
its vote halved, while in later rounds a party that already has two seats will
have its count reduced to a third. It's known as the D'Hondt method, after the
Belgian mathematician Victor D'Hondt who invented it in the 1870s, and is now
used in elections across the world. In most regions, it will guarantee that one
or more seats go to non-mainstream parties.

How does the European parliament work?

There are 736 seats (down from 781 last time) distributed among the 27 member
countries according to population. The parliament is the only bit of the
European Union that's elected, and is steadily increasing in power. It acts as
an upper house to the European commission, reviewing and sometimes reversing EU
law.

So there are 736 seats and we've only got 72 of them; how can voting for anyone
have any real impact on how Europe is run?

Euro MEPs sit in big transnational groupings according to their political
alignment. The

centre-right European People's party and European Democrats (EPP-ED) is the
largest bloc, with 288 seats. The Tories belong to this group, but plan to leave
it after the election and form a new caucus with some rather unpleasant sounding
hard-right Eastern Europeans. Labour belongs to the second largest bloc, the
Party of European Socialists (PES), and the Lib Dems, conveniently, belong to
the third largest.

The remaining groups are considerably smaller. Various no-mates, fascist loons
and single-issue cranks (and a couple of Tories) are consigned to a category
called Non-Inscrit (non-attached).

What are the big issues of the election?

In Britain the main issue is, of course, a bubbling, slightly unfocused rage at
any politician belonging to one of the big three parties, thanks to the Commons
expenses scandal, with most of the smaller parties and independents looking to
profit from voter disaffection. Today's local elections will also serve as a
referendum

on Gordon Brown, so feel free to add your

tuppenceworth here too.

Of course, every European election is to some extent an election about, er,
Europe, with the naysayers in the ascendant. Ukip, the largest of the
Eurosceptic parties, pushed the Lib Dems into fourth place last time, and at
least five

other parties - including the catchily named No2EU - list "withdrawal from the
EU" among their aims.

Ah, but should I vote for a smaller party or an independent candidate to express
my disdain for expense fiddling?

Some of the sitting independent MEPs have also had a little local difficulty
over their expenses. Den Dover, for example, had the

Conservative whip withdrawn in November and was ordered to repay more than
£500,000 in expenses. And the former Ukip MEP Tom Wise has just been charged
with alleged false accounting and money laundering following an investigation
into his expenses. If convicted he could become the second of the 12 Ukip MEPs
elected in 2004 to go to jail (the first,

Ashley Mote, wasn't guilty of expense fiddling, just benefit fraud).

So MEPs have expenses issues as well, then?

And how. The European parliament is, by all accounts, a freeloader's paradise.
MEPs get a lavish flat rate for travel expenses (they can keep what they don't
spend) and a daily subsistence allowance (currently £259) just for pitching up.
They are unlikely to be caught out by embarrassing receipts, since they don't
need to provide any.

I suppose I should have some idea what's going on in the rest of Europe, too . .
.

Well most of them won't be voting until

Sunday, but the mood on the continent is characterised by a wholesale retreat of
the left. In Austria the far-right Freedom party could take as much as 20% of
the vote, The Dutch Freedom party is hoping to take second place there, and in
Hungary the opposition rightwing party Fidesz looks like winning twice as many
seats as the Socialists. In Sweden, the single-issue Piratpartiet (Pirate
party), which is against the criminalisation of music and video file-sharing,
has grown to become its third largest party in just months, and looks set to
take a seat or two.

Actually I was thinking about voting Green. Will I be wasting my vote?

Even under PR it depends a bit on where you live - but the Greens already have
four MEPs and now have a good chance to improve that figure. If you live in the
north-west of England, voting Green could

arguably be the best way to stop the BNP gaining its first seat. It's worth
bearing in mind, however, that the Greens belong to a bloc (Greens/EPA) that
also houses "representatives of stateless nations", including MEPs from Plaid
Cymru and the SNP, so you may inadvertently be doing those parties a favour in
the process.

If you follow me

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2009



CORRECTION: *The number of seats in the outgoing European Parliament is 785, not
781 as we said yesterday, and the number of Green party MEPs from the UK is two,
not four (Your cut-out-and-keep guide to the Euros, page 12, G2). While the
article was tongue-in-cheek, we should perhaps clarify that MEPs' daily £259
subsistence allowance is not "just for pitching up", but is meant for
accommodation, meals etc while in Brussels or Strasbourg.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

G2: Choices, choices...

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 337 words


Dozens of organisations and individuals are registered to stand in the European
elections in Britain; some with very similar sounding names that could lead to
classic Monty Python moments: "Hello, are you from the Socialist party of Great
Britain, the Socialist People's party, the Socialist Labour party or Socialist
Unity?" Here's a rundown of just a few of your options . . .

English Democrats

Campaigning for an English parliament, immediate withdrawal from the EU

and an end to political correctness.

Candidates standing in both European

and local elections.

Jury Team

Has no policies at all. Basically an umbrella group for 59 independent
candidates, which hopes to benefit from general voter disenchantment with the
mainstream

parties by not saying too much. Endorsed by Esther Rantzen, if that helps you
decide.

No2EU - Yes to Democracy

Not a party in its own right, in fact, but a loose coalition of other parties,
groups, trade unionists and single issue candidates who share a hostility to the
European

Union. Headed by RMT leader Bob Crow.

UKFirst

Most recent political address of former One Man and his Dog presenter Robin
Page, who has previously stood as a candidate for the Tories, the Referendum
party and Ukip.

The Pensioners party

Says it represents the views of "pensioners and potential pensioners". Six
candidates standing in the south-west.

Animals Count

An animal rights party founded in 2006 by Jasmijn de Boo, a former member of the
Dutch Party for the Animals. Three

candidates standing in the Eastern England region. Has the advantage of being
first on the list, thanks to alphabetical order.

Christian Party-Christian People's Alliance

Really two parties that have recently joined forces. They have a broad range of
God-fearing policies, but it's basically an anti-abortion thing. Not a prayer.

Wai D. Or YD

Or "Your Decision". Aims to launch a

website where voters can instruct their MEPs. South-west of England only.

Mebyon Kernow

Campaigning for Cornish self-government.

The Peace party

Pro-peace, anti-war, no chance.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Europe's heart of darkness

LENGTH: 1277 words

ABSTRACT

Antony Lerman: Europe votes: If UK politicians facing electoral revolt are
tempted to ride the tiger of European populist posturing, we may all get mauled


FULL TEXT

Where will public anger with politicians over the expenses scandal lead? Will
the result make us more, or less, like the rest of Europe? One thing looks
certain: in the local and European parliament elections, most people who bother
to vote will be registering a protest. And many of those will turn to the
political periphery: Ukip, the Greens, the BNP and sundry other minor parties
and independents. The main party leaders are now treading on each other's heads
as they try desperately to climb out of the political swamp. But however
earnestly they apologise, introduce hastily cobbled-together, internal
disciplinary procedures and now rush out their proposals for radical
institutional reform, it won't do them much good. A  found that almost 50% of
people believe at least half of MPs are corrupt. The anger will surely lead to a
kicking.

Beyond that, though, some will be predicting a more positive outcome.

The good sense of the citizenry is driving the politicians to introduce
constructive reform and will therefore be responsible for the creation of a
modern, accountable, fully representative, democratic parliamentary system.
Grassroots interest in politics will be rekindled. The people's longing for
change will be fulfilled. Any lurch to populism and the fringes evident from the
results of the elections to the European parliament will be forgotten. Come the
general election and Cameron will assume power, taking his MEPs out of the
European People's party (EPP), the mainstream Christian Democrat group in the
parliament, so that what goes on over there will seem even more remote and, once
again, the butt of Eurosceptic jokes.

Having described this scenario, the only bit I expect to happen is in the last
sentence. And that's because, from the moment the scandal broke I never believed
that the central issue of popular concern was the suddenly revealed crisis of
democracy, the fracturing of the parliamentary system. It was the revelation of
a moral crisis, an ethical collapse.

And the people's response? ? expressions of disgust with the corrupt behaviour
of MPs. Of course, the institutions are not fit for purpose, but this has been
obvious for some years. Yet, if anyone were to take to the streets, it wouldn't
be carrying placards demanding "Parliamentary Reform Now!" The gut sentiment is
"Kick the Bastards Out!"

Which brings me back to Europe. The BBC poll results suggests to me that
proposals for institutional reform, however effective they might be, will not
assuage the anger of the public, an anger that the politicians have had to
accept as entirely legitimate, whether they believe so or not. What people want
is honest politicians. So, step forward Martin Bell, in his white suit; Esther
Rantzen, the consumers' champion. Wonderful human beings, undoubtedly, but
honesty is no guarantee of political judgment. And when people put everything
else aside in the quest for honest politicians, we are, in effect, entering the
world of populism and are as likely to end up with snake-oil salesmen as with
the cleaner than clean.

I say this because I'm persuaded by the arguments of the  that one of the key
reasons for the growing tide of European populism is disgust with corruption.
This is not like the fascist populism of the 1930s, which wanted to replace
democracy and favoured charismatic leaders. Today's European populists like
democracy. What they oppose, , "is the representative nature of modern
democracies, the protection of the rights of minorities, and the constraints to
the sovereignty of the people".

He  as "a worldview that considers society ultimately separated into two
antagonistic groups, the 'pure people' and the 'corrupt elite'". These elites
have become "increasingly suspicious of democracy"; "angry publics" have become
"increasingly anti-liberal". This, it seems to me, is an accurate description of
what has happened in the UK.

The New Labour project was ultimately a statement of lack of trust in the
people. The only way they could be brought round to vote the right way was by
appealing to their narrow self-interest and to be told that there was no
alternative. What was sold as the politics of choice was precisely the opposite.
The global financial and economic collapse revealed the bankruptcy of this
fundamentally anti-democratic approach and yet the Labour elite drank so deeply
at this well that they have lost the ability to see that the instincts of the
electorate can be a force for good.

The Tories, meanwhile, are pulling in two directions. They too, very belatedly,
decided that the will of their party had to be overcome for the sake of getting
elected. So, Cameron has "decontaminated the brand" and fully embraced the
bland. But as the party that hasn't been in government for years and doesn't
have the responsibilities of power to weigh it down, it can respond more quickly
to the popular mood and is flirting with populism more riskily than the other
main parties. Whatever may have initially prompted William Hague and Cameron to
decide to pull out of the EPP in the European parliament and into a new caucus
of Eurosceptics, the European Conservatives, getting into bed with the Polish
Law and Justice Party and the Czech Civic Democrats  with people espousing
distinctly populist policies and holding deeply troubling views. And they may
well have to link up with other populist parties to qualify for official caucus
status in the new parliament.

The British mood increasingly resembles the populism taking hold across Europe.
The party leaders here think they can surf the wave, but most populist politics
are, in Krastev's words, "dangerous mutations". Flirting with them may well
backfire. His research on populism and the politics of anti-corruption in
central Europe led him to conclude that "the more governments make fighting
corruption a priority, the more people are inclined to view these very
governments as corrupt." The UK isn't central Europe, but, as well as
corruption, the problems fuelling populism ? Euroscepticism, xenophobia, fear of
loss of national identity, immigration, weakened national sovereignty,
Islamophobia, the impact of recession ? are Europe-wide. It would be dangerously
complacent to think that we can continue to be the European exception.

It will be a cruel irony if the public anger over the expenses scandal leads to
the kind of populist political response that finally takes us into the heart of
Europe ? but into that dark heart populated by the likes of Geert Wilders'
Freedom party in the Netherlands, the National Alliance and Northern League in
Italy, the Pirate party in Sweden, the Danish People's party. Many of these
parties, and other populist and fringe groups, are predicted to do well in the
European parliamentary elections being held this week, in which the turnout
could be little more than 30% across the EU.

This is hardly the time to say it, but we should be thankful for the degree of
economic, legal and political integration that exists in Europe, however
imperfect, because it acts as a form of restraint on the wilder manifestations
of populist politics. While political turmoil persists in the UK, and the
scramble for party advantage and the appeasement of populist instincts threaten
to overwhelm the more prosaic but necessary hard graft of devising a
parliamentary system fit for the internet age, we should be thankful for small
mercies.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Worth a look ? politics articles we like

LENGTH: 198 words

ABSTRACT

Six politics articles worth reading ? on our political class, European
elections, Boris Johnson, the car scrappage scheme, and Julie Walters playing Mo
Mowlam

FULL TEXT

 says the underlying problem in politics is "the low quality of our political
class".

says Labour is behind Ukip, and only just ahead of the Liberal Democrats, in a
poll of people certain to vote in today's European elections. The Tories are
well ahead.

And  says the one silver lining for Labour in today's European elections is that
the Tories won't do as well as they did when William Hague was leader.

accuses the Daily Telegraph of "protecting" Boris Johnson because it played down
its story about him claiming ?16.50 for a wreath.

reports that the car scrappage scheme could be abandoned six months early, in
August, because more people than expected are taking advantage of it and the
money is running out.

The  shows what Julie Walters looks like as she plays Mo Mowlam in a Channel 4
drama about the former Northern Ireland secretary called Mo.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Elections and Labour leadership crisis: rolling blog

LENGTH: 1970 words

ABSTRACT

Andrew Sparrow with all the latest developments as voters go to the polls in the
European and local elections and Labour MPs and ministers plot against Gordon
Brown

FULL TEXT

10.25am: It's election day ? 15 hours of relative calm while the voters vote
(and the plotters plot), but public political activity largely goes on hold (not
least because the broadcasters are under various constraints about what they can
report designed to stop them influencing the result).

The House of Commons is sitting today, but the business is very light (energy
questions, business questions and then two topical debates) and the place
doesn't seem very busy. Tomorrow I'll be blogging like fury. Today it's going to
be quieter, but I'll be blogging throughout the day anyway with the latest
developments on the elections/plotting front.

I've just spent an hour or so reading the papers and the blogs. Needless to say,
it's all about Gordon. Here's the best of what's around:

says it is hard to find anyone in government who believes Gordon Brown can
survive, but adds: "My granny could run a better coup than this lot."

says that when John Reid saw Brown on Tuesday night, he told Brown he should
resign.

says that a fifth minister could resign and that Brown has been warned to expect
further attacks after polls close tonight.

says Gordon Brown should stand down because the Labour party needs a new leader.

t says Jon Cruddas is not going to be an anti-Brown stalking horse.

says Hazel Blears made at least ?80,000 from the sale of two flats partly funded
through parliamentary expenses.

says it's not all over for Brown yet.

And  says that some Labour MPs will not want to topple Brown if that leads to an
early election.

says that Caroline Flint may resign alongside Blears and Smith if she is not
offered a big job in the reshuffle.

says what's depressing about this rebellion is that it's not about principle;
it's just "a cowardly, schoolyard attempt to kick an unpopular prime minister
when he's finally down".

suggests Louise Casey, Tony Blair's antisocial behaviour "tsar", could become a
minister in the House of Lords.

says that Tony Wright, the Labour chairman of the public administration
committee, does not see how Brown can be ousted, but thinks Brown should say now
that the election will be in May 2010.

10.44am: Stephen Byers and Alan Milburn, the two arch-Blairites who are normally
near the top of any Brownite list of plotters, have both got alibis. As ,
Milburn is in Doha and Byers is in Dubai. Waugh says this means that they are
"not around for the face-to-face private meetings essential to any serious
plot". Unless, of course, the anti-Brown conspiracy is going global ...

10.52am: According to the Press Association, there are "early signs of a low
turnout" in today's European elections. "Just 52 people out of 2,255 voted in
the first two hours at a polling station in Streatham, south London," the PA
reports. I'm not sure that proves anything at all, and it could be the most
meaningless statistic you will read all day. But do send in your own polling
booth observations (in the comment section below) if you've got any.

11.05am: Ukip have been in touch to say that hundreds of their supporters having
been calling Ukip HQ "to complain that they were not able to vote for the
party". It turns out that some returning officers have been folding the ballot
paper and, with Ukip appearing near the bottom (because the parties are listed
alphabetically), it appears that the party is not on the list. That's not the
same as not being able to vote for the party. All voters have to do is turn the
paper over. But you can see why this creates an impression of unfairness. Ukip
says that this has been happening in places like Carlisle, York, Hampshire and
Dartford and that it has already been in touch with the Electoral Commission to
complain. The party is even talking about using this as a reason for challenging
the result in court.

11.20am: ORourKe (see below) wants to know why he should vote Lib Dem when they
can't even run a website. Their site has crashed. The Lib Dems tell me that's
because they've had "high levels of traffic" in the run-up to the election. But
the Conservative site crashed this morning too. A Tory spokeswoman says there
was "a concerted attempt to bring it down".  a blogger who understands these
things, says the website was subject to a "Distributed denial of service (DDOS)
attack caused by multiple source host machines on the Internet - presumably
working as a remotely controlled bot-net."

11.27am: A colleague who has just come back from the daily Downing Street
briefing says the prime minister's spokesman is describing Gordon Brown's mood
as "determined". There was nothing about when to expect the reshuffle and the
spokesman would not comment on about John Reid urging Brown to resign.

11.33am: On the subject of Iain Dale, he's presenting an election results
programme on internet radio tomorrow (because the BBC won't be showing an
election programme of its own) and he would like your help. You can read more
about it at

11.58am: In business questions, Alan Duncan, the shadow leader of the Commons,
has just urged people to vote. "Whatever difficulties parliament has been
experiencing, for the sake of democracy may we all join across the chamber and
urge everyone to get out and vote," he said. But I'm not sure the message is
getting through.  says that at her local polling station it was "so quiet that
the tellers were going 'mind blank'."

12.03pm: If you're looking for a list of candidates in the European elections,
you'll find  very helpful.

12.14pm: Daniel Finkelstein is running a rolling blog today at  He thinks Ed
Miliband is "the most credible coup leader".

12.28pm: Bob Piper, the  and councillor in the West Midlands, isn't sorry to see
Blears go. "Any future leader who would promote this woman back in to a
governmental position would need his bumps feeling ... Good riddance, say I," he
writes. "Bumps feeling". Is that a West Midlands phrase? I've never heard it
before.

I'm writing some news now and so there won't be any more updates here for about
an hour.

1.49pm: There's been a spurt of action. The pound fell suddenly, at around 1pm,
apparently after a rumour swept the City about Brown resigning. Bloomberg, the
financial news agency, took it seriously enough to check it out with Downing
Street and they're running a story with the headline: "Pound Falls, Recovers
After Government Denies Brown to Resign." Downing Street said the resignation
rumour was "nonsense". The dip didn't last long. Sterling is now up again.

2.10pm: While we're on the subject of rumours, Sir Alan Sugar got the rumour
mill working overtime when he was Would he be joining the government? When ,
Surallan replied: "It's none of your business." But it's not going to happen. He
was only there for a routine meeting.

2.34pm: John Reid has issued a statement denying  "Conversations with the prime
minister are always confidential. We have never commented on them. Alleged
accounts of such conversations are inaccurate," it says.

2.56pm: In the Guardian today the headline writers have dubbed the plot against
Brown as "the Hotmail conspiracy". A colleague has come up with a better phrase
for what they're using: "plotmail". The Daily Mail are calling it the "cyber
coup", which is quite a good phrase too.

3.03pm: Dazino (see below) says: "My girlfriend is working on a polling station
and I sent her a text a couple of hours ago to see what the turnout was like. I
haven't had a reply." Maybe that's the "mind blank" that  was on about earlier.
But it's not quiet everywhere. On her blog the Tory MP Nadine Dorries says  that
the Conservative turn-out in her area is excellent.

3.28pm: Stop the press - another rumour. And it's a new one. Yvette Cooper going
to the Department for Work and Pensions. This is from the Westminster grapevine,
so it might be complete nonsense, but I thought you would be interested. Moving
Cooper would make it easier to make Ed Balls chancellor because everyone assumes
it would be impossible to have a husband-and-wife team running the Treasury
(although I can't see any constitutional reason why it couldn't happen). A
Cooper aide says it's news to him. Will it happen? Who knows.

4.01pm: Just out of curiosity, I've tried emailing "plotmail" - the
(signonnow@hotmail.co.uk) - inviting the chief plotter to give me a ring. Sadly,
I haven't had a reply. Cynics are suggesting it's all a devious Nick Brown plot,
and he's sitting by a computer in Westminster somewhere as I write collecting
names as the emails ping in.

4.18pm: Maybe Surallan was offered a government job after all. At the afternoon
briefing for lobby correspondents, when asked about Sir Alan Sugar's presence at
No 10, the Downing Street spokesman said the Apprentice supremo was a member of
Gordon Brown's business council. But, when asked whether Surallan was offered
another job, the spokeman did not deny it. He just said that Sugar already had a
job (ie the business council one). Very curious.

4.37pm: is saying he's heard that Darling now would take another job in
government. But we've been led to believe that he does not want the Home Office
(a political graveyard) and that he's not likely to get the Foreign Office. So
what else? He's not going take a demotion. But we haven't got a deputy prime
minister (Harriet Harman is deputy Labour leader, not deputy PM) and, even if
the title is relatively meaningless (as another ex-chancellor, Geoffrey Howe,
discovered), you can see why Darling might like it on his CV. Darling for deputy
prime minister? This is total speculation, but if it does happen ? you read it
here first.

5.07pm: We started the day with a report in the Times speculating about another
ministerial resignation. Instead, as I wrap up this blog, we've got the Ukip
leader, Nigel Farage, publishing a letter he's written to Michael Wills, the
elections minister, saying Wills should resign. Farage says Wills is "totally
unfit to remain in office" because he has not done enough to deal with the
folded ballot paper problem. (See my earlier post.) A Ukip official has just
been around the press gallery in the Commons to say that he thinks the problem
relates to local authorities who used a particular commercial printer who folded
the ballot papers and squashed them flat, so that the "fold" was almost stuck to
the underside of the paper. He claims this could have cost the party "maybe
hundreds of thousands of votes". But the Electoral Commission say they have
dealt with it. Today, after they were told about the problem, they told
returning officers to make sure that ballot papers are handed out unfolded.

I'm off home now to vote. There are 19 parties or individuals on the ballot
paper for the European elections in London, making it about 3ft long, and so
I'll find out soon whether there's a "folding" problem in Lambeth. I'm sorry
we've been a bit thin on real news today. But do come back tomorrow. I'll be
live blogging from around 7am. And I don't think we'll be short of things to say
...

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Gordon Brown seeks to shore up support as voters go to the polls

LENGTH: 876 words

ABSTRACT

Prime minister seeks to rally support before polls close in local and European
elections

FULL TEXT

Gordon Brown was awaiting the verdict of the voters on his beleaguered
premiership today as a new poll suggested that Labour could come behind Ukip in
the European elections.

With some Labour MPs determined to unseat the prime minister within days, Brown
has been ringing backbenchers to shore up his position, knowing that his critics
will wait until polls close tonight before renewing their public calls for him
to quit.

Yesterday's , left Brown clinging to his job. Today all voters in the UK are
entitled to participate in the European elections, and there are parallel local
elections involving 27 county councils, seven unitary authorities and three
elected mayors.

The former Labour home secretary John Reid today denied a report claiming that
he had told Brown he should resign when he met him on Tuesday night. Downing
Street would not comment on the conversation.

Labour is braced for a bad result in today's elections. Some councils are
counting overnight, but most authorities are counting tomorrow, when the full
scale of Labour's performance should become clear. The European results will not
be announced until Sunday night.

Today a YouGov poll in the Daily Telegraph says that, among those certain to
vote, Labour has the support of just 16% of the electorate in the European
elections. This would put them ahead of the Liberal Democrats, on 15%, but
behind Ukip, on 18%. Losing to Ukip would be a humiliation for Labour. The same
poll put the Tories on 26%.

Yesterday the scale of the rebellion from the backbenches became clear as
details emerged of a  to gather signatures from MPs calling for Brown to step
down in the interests of both the Labour party and the country.

But the prime minister appeared to have repulsed the first wave of the attempt
to topple him when senior figures in the cabinet rallied to his standard,
including a clear vow of loyalty by the health secretary, Alan Johnson, the man
seen as most likely to succeed him.

One of Brown's closest aides vowed "the prime minister will only be taken out of
Downing Street in a box", adding: "If he is ousted, no successor would be able
to withstand the demands for an immediate general election, and that will
destroy us for a generation."

The business secretary, Lord Mandelson, also appealed to Labour MPs not to back
the attempt to bring down the prime minister.

"I know there are Labour MPs who are in a very grumbly mood, but British
politics is in a bad old state,'' he told BBC's Newsnight last night.

"Nobody is happy and it is affecting all the parties. Don't, please, through
your actions, make it any worse for the Labour party."

Brown's fate looks to depend on the scale of Labour's drubbing in the elections
and whether he can win cabinet compliance, including from a personally aggrieved
chancellor Alistair Darling, for a wide-ranging reshuffle that he may try to
push through tomorrow.

The reshuffle will include a restructuring of the government around public
service reform, constitutional renewal and the economy.

In a sign of the naked power struggle at the top of the party, Darling is
fiercely resisting being shifted from the Treasury, and some of his friends are
saying he will leave the government if Brown decides that his close ally Ed
Balls should be given the job, which could trigger other cabinet resignations.

Darling looked subdued, if not broken, at prime minister's questions yesterday
as Brown three times turned down an opportunity given by David Cameron to say
that his old friend was safe in his job at the Treasury.

Darling's allies argue that he has built a vast knowledge base over the past two
years that would be thrown away if he is jettisoned when the economy is still
deep in recession.

Winners in the reshuffle look likely to be Tory defector Shaun Woodward, the
Northern Ireland secretary, and John Denham, the universities secretary, who
could fill the roles vacated by Jacqui Smith, who is leaving the Home Office,
and Blears.

The backbench rebels ? who wanted to keep their Hotmail-based email plot secret,
at least until after the close of polls tonight ? are hoping to raise as many as
80 signatures calling for Brown to stand down with publication on Monday.

The brief letter addressed to Brown states: "In the current political situation
you can best serve the country and the party by stepping down."

The highly secretive backbench revolt, run on a cell structure to prevent leaks,
may not become clear until after all the European election results are known on
Sunday evening, by which time Brown had hoped to reunite and refresh his
cabinet.

As details of the plot emerged, chief whip Nick Brown tried to smoke out some of
the rebels, and mount a counter-operation, identifying to the Guardian some of
those he believed responsible.

Senior figures organising the revolt are insisting that their preferred
successor ? Alan Johnson ? can be installed before the summer without a
full-scale election within 23 days if Brown resigned.

The unions insist they would not allow that to happen as the timetable would
prevent them consulting their members.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Alex Salmond scents EU victory as Labour fears voters will stay at home

LENGTH: 625 words

ABSTRACT

SNP is aiming to win three of Scotland's six European parliament seats

FULL TEXT

Alex Salmond is on the brink of a significant political victory at the European
elections, with many Labour voters in Scotland threatening to stay at home in
protest at the Westminster expenses scandal.

Senior Labour figures fear large numbers of supporters will refuse to vote this
Thursday, greatly increasing the prospects of the Scottish National party taking
the largest share of the votes.

That would be a significant propaganda coup for Salmond, allowing him to claim
that the SNP is now established as Scotland's largest political party, and a
further heavy blow to Gordon Brown.

Salmond is keen to bolster his government's influence in Brussels, and believes
Thursday's result will help the SNP bypass the UK government within the European
commission.

The SNP is focused on mobilising its core vote, arguing that its MEPs would be
the strongest advocates for Scotland in Europe and urging its supporters to use
Thursday to punish Brown's government over the expenses scandal.

Salmond launched the final phase of their campaign ? which has been entirely
overshadowed by the expenses crisis ? in the SNP's latest stronghold, Dundee, on
Tuesday.

"The Westminster government is crumbling, its authority has drained away, and
SNP success on Thursday will force the UK government to act on key Scottish
demands as well as forcing the pace on an early general election, and delivering
a strong Scottish voice in Europe," he said.

Salmond now claims the European election is a "straight two-horse race" with
Labour. He is very likely to win on the popular vote. But Salmond's hopes that
the SNP might snatch three of the six seats available in Scotland appear to have
been dashed by the jump in support for smaller parties due to the expenses
crisis.

Opinion polls before the crisis suggested that the SNP could have taken 34% of
the vote and the Liberal Democrats only 11%. Under Europe's proportional voting
system, that result would have handed the SNP three seats and left the Lib Dems
with none.

Yet support for the Lib Dems, and the Greens, appears to have strengthened in
the last month, increasing the Lib Dems' confidence they will win a seat. But
neither the UK Independence party nor the BNP have made any great gains in
Scotland, unlike in other parts of the UK.

Labour sources admit their greatest fear is winning only one seat on Thursday,
humiliating Gordon Brown on his home ground. Recent UK opinion polls put Labour
at 17% ? the worst figure in party history. However, a YouGov poll for the Daily
Telegraph suggests Labour support is stronger in Scotland, at 24%, only five
points behind the SNP.

"We know it will be a difficult fight to maintain Labour as the largest party,
but we're obviously trying very hard," said one official.

Professor John Curtice, an elections expert at the University of Strathclyde,
says this suggests that both Labour and the SNP will win two seats each on
Thursday ? the key issue is who wins the largest popular vote.

"The election in Scotland has always been about who can come first in votes," he
said. "If the Labour party is able to come first in votes they will be able to
say the shine has come off Alex Salmond.

"If the SNP comes first in votes, they will be able to say they're still the
most popular party. The battle for credibility is crucial here."

The precise size of the SNP vote could hinge on votes from the Outer Hebrides,
which are likely to be the last votes counted in Britain. The Western Isles
follow strict Sabbatarian rules and refuse to count votes on a Sunday, so its
ballot papers from their 22,000 voters will not be totted up until Monday
morning, when the final result will be declared in Edinburgh.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Commission president gets a free pass

LENGTH: 748 words

ABSTRACT

John Palmer: Europe votes: The uncontested re-appointment of Jos? Manuel Barroso
is bad news for democracy in Europe

FULL TEXT

Imagine a general election where the major parties ? the "Conservatives" and
"Labour" ? both have a reasonable chance of emerging victorious. But at the last
minute, the Labour party decides to let the Tory leader have a free go at
running the next government even before the votes are cast. In an equally
bizarre move, the third-largest party, the "Liberals", decide that they too will
not fight the election, with a candidate seeking appointment as head of the next
administration.

Strange as it may seem, this is exactly the situation facing voters in the
European elections this week across the 27 member states of the EU. , the
sitting conservative president of the European commission ? the supra-national
executive of the EU, which alone can propose new laws ? has already been  by the
centre-right European Peoples' party (the equivalent of the Conservatives).

Fair enough, you might say: the former Portuguese premier Barroso is indeed a
member of the EPP and has proved a fairly straight-down-the-line conservative
during his five years in office. But what is truly bizarre is that the socialist
members of the European parliament ? the second-largest group, which includes
Labour MEPs ? have been instructed to support Barroso as well. This emerged when
Gordon Brown decided to block any move by the Party of European Socialists (PES)
to find a candidate from among the front ranks of the EU Labour and social
democratic parties who make up the PES at a recent summit of "socialist"
leaders.

Brown has not been called on to justify his decision and has merely said that
Barroso had done "a good job" and that there was a need for "continuity" in the
post of commission president. At the 11th hour, this  by a number of former
leaders of EU socialist and social democratic parties. They argue that there are
profound policy issues between the centre left and the conservatives, given
Barroso's commitment to orthodox neo-liberal economic policies.

The failure to nominate competing candidates for the post of commission
president has contributed to a widespread sense among voters that they do not
really know what the European elections are about. This failure to give voters a
say not merely in choosing between rival European economic, social and political
strategies but also between rival candidates to head up the European Union's
executive has encouraged the disaffection of voters from the entire European
parliament election.

The result seems likely to be a further decline in voter turnout for the
elections in most EU countries. The main beneficiaries are likely to be the
xenophobic, racist and neo-fascist far right parties ? including the British
National party and Ukip. Hopefully some smaller progressive parties, such as the
pan-European Green party, will also do well, as may some of those left parties
(in Germany, France and elsewhere) committed to building a united European
alternative to the prevailing capitalist consensus.

All may not yet be completely lost. Although it is now too late to fight this
election by giving voters a real choice about the future direction of the EU, it
is still possible to prevent Barroso's re-appointment being turned into a mere
coronation. It would still be open to PES to refuse to ratify Barroso when the
European parliament is called on to approve his appointment. PES could also
appeal to the Liberals as well as the parties to its left ? notably the  and the
? to join them in rejecting Barroso's candidacy. Of course then there would have
to be negotiations to find a candidate acceptable to a broad majority of MEPs.

The signs are that by the end of the year the  so that its reforms can be
implemented. Among the most important measures are the further powers that will
be given to elected members of the European parliament. In future, MEPs will
share lawmaking powers more or less equally with member state governments in the
council of ministers. This development will strip away the last, pathetic
justification for appointing a president of the commission through deals between
government leaders in back rooms, and place the choice openly in front of the
only people who should make that decision ? the European Union's voters.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

We are not voting on the future of a precarious PM;
LEADING ARTICLE These elections are vital to the future and prosperity of the
nation

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 585 words


Today's European and local elections take place against the background of a
Prime Minister fighting for his political life and the continuing saga of MPs'
expenses. This extraordinary drama has swept aside much consideration of what
the elections are supposed to be about, the future of the European Union and the
performance of local councils.

Inevitably, the outcome will become part of the Westminster drama, too, as the
results are announced over the next few days. But the elections are important
irrespective of their impact on the immediate future of a precarious Prime
Minister. Britain's involvement in the European Union is no minor matter. It is
central to a wide range of pivotal policy areas, from the economy to the
environment.

Voters often complain about a lack of choice in elections. They cannot make that
complaint in relation to Europe. Depressingly, the Conservative leadership is
now more euro-sceptic than at any time since Britain joined the EU in 1973.
David Cameron's pledge to withdraw from the European People's Party, the
centre-right grouping in the European Parliament, has left him in the absurd and
dangerous position of seeking alliances with small right-wing groups. Some of
his new allies espouse extreme views on homosexuality, Europe and global
warming. Moderates in the EPP have expressed their disapproval of Mr Cameron's
actions. French and German centre-right leaders are dismayed.

Almost as alarming is Mr Cameron's proposal to challenge elements of the Lisbon
Treaty even after ratification. If he becomes Prime Minister, it seems that
Britain would be heading for another period of destructive rows with the rest of
Europe at a point when constructive engagement is more urgent than ever. Despite
his own, and his shadow cabinet's defiant euro-scepticism, however, Ukip still
looks likely to do well with its even more impractical and calamitous proposal
to withdraw from the EU altogether. Neither deserves support in today's
elections.

The rise in euro-scepticism follows more than a decade of Labour government
which began with Tony Blair declaring that his historic objective was to end
Britain's ambiguous relationship with Europe. Relations, though, are as
ambiguous as ever, highlighting the Government's subsequent timidity. At times
ministers have been constructively and energetically engaged, not least during
the collapse of the financial markets last year. But far too often, Mr Brown and
others have displayed an expedient surliness towards Europe, reinforcing voters'
doubts instead of challenging them. They are partly culpable for the increase in
popular hostility.

Only the Liberal Democrats have consistently put the case for Europe, doing so
even when seeking to hold seats in parts of the country, such as the south-west
of England, that are more euro-sceptic than others. Like his recent
predecessors, Nick Clegg is unequivocal in his support for the EU. A strong vote
for his party would show that parts of the electorate recognise the importance
of Britain playing a positive role at the heart of Europe. On that basis alone
the Liberal Democrats deserve to perform well.

The local elections matter too. In ways that are too often overlooked, the
performance of local authorities has an impact on all our lives. It is to be
hoped that votes will be cast partly on the basis of whether or not the ruling
parties have been effective. The national political mood may be febrile, but
today's elections are about much more than the fate of Gordon Brown.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

We are witnessing a very British form of anarchy

BYLINE: Matthew Norman

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1155 words


Come on now, admit it, this is the most tremendous fun ever. EVER. After weeks
of holding forth about systemic crisis, loss of public trust, constitutional
reform and all the rest of it, the moment comes to stop "bloviating", to use the
Washington verb for pompous punditry, and confess that we are in heaven.

That apart, I haven't a clue what exactly is going on in Bedlam-by-the-Thames,
let alone whether this Labour PM, like Harold Wilson before him, is going on.
Nobody does, not even those brethren who have looked down from the press gallery
for decades, because there is no template for mayhem like this. We have been
beamed aboard a planet that has never even been probed.

Into the vacuum where the guiding light of precedent ordinarily lives, the
cliches rush as feverishly as the analogies, but offer zero insight. "Chaos
theory" sounds cool, but only about four people in the world understand what
that really means, and I'm not one of them. With references to No 10 suffering
catastrophic engine failure or going into a corkscrew spin verging on the
tasteless, rats departing the sinking ship is the transport metaphor du jour.

Rats are smart and terrifying little vermin, however, while the only fear you'd
feel on finding yourself in Room 101 separated by a flimsy wire mesh from Hazel
Blears' gob is that she'd use it not to gore or gnaw, but to bore you to death
with her cretinous "sunny optimism". The self-righteousness in yesterday's crude
assassination attempt (technically, letter of resignation) suggested an
excommunication order issued against his useless, dithery bishop by a cleric
about to be unfrocked for choirboy interference.

Even a large cheque made out to HM Inland Revenue couldn't buy you sport like
this, and the memory of Rafael Nadal's unimaginable defeat in Paris counsels
against cocky predictions. However apparently overpowering the scent of Gordon
Brown's terminal gangrene, all one can safely do is unleash a barrage of ifs and
then qualify them. If Blears' departure is part of a coordinated effort with
fellow pre-emptive resigners to destabilise him fatally, it might work and it
might not.

Writing yesterday afternoon, with events moving like a runaway train and my
psychic powers oddly diminished, I have not the foggiest whether any further
cabinet ministers jumped overnight, or plan to do so between now and the
imminent reshuffle that promises much for fans of the surreal. If so, that might
be the tipping point. And it might not.

If late tonight Labour has lost control of the four of its metropolitan councils
up for grabs, which is likely, that could do it. Or not. A share of the popular
vote in local elections below 20 per cent would seem the final straw, but the
ability of this prime ministerial camel to keep plodding on through the dunes
with nothing in the tank is just about the only known known, as Donald Rumsfeld
would have it, that survives.

If tomorrow, or on Monday, Gordon makes Ed Balls his Chancellor, we are assured
that so factional an appointment of so divisive a figure could provoke the tidal
wave of internecine bitterness to sweep him away. But again, it might do no such
thing.

And if on Sunday it emerges that Labour was bested in the Euro election popular
vote by Ukip, you'd think that even Gordon would feel compelled to consider
retiring with the Scotch and trusty Luger. But thinking in the absence of any
map for these unchartered waters is futile. If gut instinct is any guide, my own
hunch is that at this moment, with the Labour backbenchers' Go Now Gordon
petition reportedly gathering signatures by the hour, it is marginally odds-on
that he'll be gone this time next week; and that by tomorrow morning his
survival will have drifted further. But my hunch is at best as good as yours,
and probably worse.

Logically, of course, there shouldn't be a chance in a thousand that a PM who
has lost every ounce of authority over his Cabinet, his government and the House
of Commons, every last milligram of respect from the country, and any remote
ability to shape events could blunder on for another day, let alone another
year. But logic galloped out of town long ago, leaving in its wake this
captivating production of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest as reworked by Alan
Ayckbourn, with additional material from Dario Fo and stage directions by Ray
Cooney.

Onto even the most joyous of vistas the odd drop of sadness must fall, the one
here being that no one will be loving Gordon's torment more than Cherie Blair -
the half woman-half supermarket trolley mythological hybrid whose
fill-your-boots avarice did so much to create the culture of greed that has all
but destroyed him. The lone shard of poignancy flying forth from his shattered
administration, meanwhile, is that the PM is so uniquely ill-suited to take what
comfort the vaguely normal would extract by way of gallows humour.

Dame Edna famously commended Jeffrey Archer for being able to laugh at himself,
adding that but for this "you'd be missing the joke of the century". The PM,
bless him, is missing the political joke of the millennium.

The days when pretentious gits like me invoked tragedy in a Gordonian context
have long since passed. Tragic heroism relies upon a certain largeness of
spirit, or at the very least a sudden moment of self-knowledge so acute that it
induces intolerable psychic anguish. Ajax slaughtered his sheep when made aware
of his fatal flaw, Oedipus put out his eyes when faced with his. Despite his
ocular head start in that direction, Gordon is as nugatory a figure as Nero,
fiddling with ritualistic lines at yesterday's PMQs while his government
self-immolates.

It's the smallness of the man, the lack of grandeur in his dreams, the pathetic
dressing-up of rank self-interest in the translucent cloak of dutifulness, that
makes guilt-free schaudenfraude less a temptation than a moral obligation. For
this has become a morality play - specifically, the first morality high farce in
politico-theatrical history - about a system so deranged in its complacency that
it gifts such power to one whose personal ambition is surpassed only by his lack
of talent, without any mechanism to remove him once that power has drained away.

What we are witnessing is a very British form of anarchy. There are no rules
here, only blind panic and frantic plotting by members of a headless party with
enough nerve endings still active to charge around until electoral rigor mortis
sets in.

As for the rest of us, like superannuated Bisto Kids, we stand with our noses
pressed up against the window onto the best little madhouse in town, reveling in
the sight of the inmates desecrating the asylum they won't be running for much
longer. The process of rebuilding the political system will be lengthy, dull and
doubtless horribly botched. So for now let's enjoy the electric, convulsive
merriment, if only for the therapy, and leave the bloviating for more sombre
days ahead.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

An election dominated by just one issue: expenses;
Forget local government, disregard the future of Europe: voting today will be
all about punishing greed, says Andrew Grice

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1088 words


Even normally loyal grassroots activists in all three main parties have been so
angry about the MPs' expenses scandal that they have refused to campaign for
today's local authority and European Parliament elections.

If people like that are furious with the behaviour of MPs, then it's an
understatement to say ordinary voters are even more angry. "It's been 'expenses,
expenses, expenses' on the doorstep - often with an expletive attached," one
Tory party canvasser admitted yesterday. A Labour source confirmed: "It's been a
single issue campaign. We have tried to raise local services, but to no avail.
Europe is the dog that didn't bark, even though it is a Euro election."

The earthquake that has shaken Westminster has, unusually, also reached every
corner of the land. The expenses story, highlighting the gulf between
politicians and the people, is so dangerous because the people understand it.
"It's not so much the moats and the servants," one Labour MP said. "What I keep
hearing on the doorstep is 'why the hell can't you buy your own food like the
rest of us?'" Until the controversy forced a belated shake-up of the expenses
system, MPs were allowed to claim £400 a month for food under their "second
homes" allowance, without receipts and even when the Commons is not sitting.

Today the voters will get the chance to pass their judgement on such behaviour
when elections take place in 34 local authorities in England, mainly in the
county councils, and the UK-wide contest for 72 seats in the European
Parliament. Some people will vote with their feet and stay away from the polling
stations in disgust. Only one in three may bother to turn out. Indeed, some
angry voters have told canvassers they will boycott the elections because of the
expenses saga. They don't normally bother to explain why.

Officials in the three main parties believe privately that Labour, as the
governing party, will take the biggest hit. But the Tories also expect to suffer
damage, after the constant stream of revelations in The Daily Telegraph about
how they used their allowances to maintain their country estates.

One intriguing question exercising the minds of all three parties is whether the
Liberal Democrats are tarred with the same brush as the two bigger parties. Nick
Clegg has had a "good war" on the expenses row and was the only main party
leader to call publicly for the Commons Speaker Michael Martin to resign. But
some Liberal Democrats fear the party may be seen by some voters as part of the
problem rather than the solution.

If the third party gains between 30 and 50 council seats and makes a surprise
gain in Bristol where Labour appears to be in trouble, it will be a sign that
the Liberal Democrats are less contaminated than the big two parties. But a
worse result than that for the Liberal Democrats will suggest the voters are
saying "a plague on all your houses".

The Liberal Democrats are defending 370 seats in total, and will be challenged
by the Tories for their only two councils of Somerset and Devon, in a dry run
for a crucial general election battle in the South West.

Labour is defending 445 council seats. It fears losing its remaining four county
councils - Lancashire, Nottinghamshire, Staffordshire and Derbyshire. If it
denies the Tories outright victory in Derbyshire - a tall order for David
Cameron's party - Labour will present it as a triumph.

The Tories expect to capture at least 100 Labour seats and will be privately
hoping for 200 gains. They will be looking to secure at least 40 per cent of the
projected share of the national vote - the hurdle needed to show David Cameron
is on course for Downing Street. The Tories are defending 1,048 of the 2,318
council seats up for grabs.

Who will benefit most among the smaller parties? UKIP has looked shambolic since
being the surprise package at the last Euro elections in 2004 and does not have
an unblemished record on expenses. Despite that, it has been given a new lease
of life by the crisis at Westminster. Although the EU has had a low profile as
an issue in the campaign (to the relief of some Tories), the fact that it is a
Euro election should help UKIP. Its leader, Nigel Farage, has said he will
resign if it wins fewer than 10 seats.

Last night Lord Kalms, a former Conservative Party Treasurer, and major Tory
donor has said he would "lend" his vote to another party at tomorrow's European
elections - almost certainly Ukip.

The Greens, who had their high water mark in Britain at the 1989 Euro election,
have a spring in their step again and have moved up in the polls. Caroline
Lucas, the Green Party leader, said last night: "A Green vote is much more than
a protest against the big three. Let's remember they've been discredited not
just by the expenses scandal, but by their lack of commitment to putting social
and environmental justice at top of political agenda."

The Greens hope to deny the BNP its first seat in a nationwide election. But
some party workers fear there may be a "spiral of silence" in which people tell
pollsters they will support other parties (such as UKIP) but back the BNP in the
privacy of the polling booth.

THE KEY COUNCIL BATTLEGROUNDS

CUMBRIA

(currently no overall control)

8.9 per cent swing for Tory control

WARWICKSHIRE

(currently no overall control)

4.9 per cent for Tory control

LANCASHIRE

(currently Labour)

4.1 per cent swing for Tory control

DERBYSHIRE

(currently Labour)

11.8 per cent swing for Tory control

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE

(currently Labour)

6.4 per cent swing for Tory control

STAFFORDSHIRE

(currently Labour)

1.1 per cent swing for Tory control

WHAT THE PARTIES ARE HOPING FOR

The three main parties are downplaying expectations in the Euro elections ??'
because the lower number of seats will make it harder to make gains and the MPs'
expenses scandal may well boost the smaller parties.

The Tories should top the poll but could have fewer seats than in 2004. Labour
is desperate to keep its vote above 20 per cent and avoid a humiliating fourth
place behind Ukip.

The Lib Dems will be keen to finish ahead of Ukip, which hopes the expenses
affair enables it to repeat its 2004 success.

The BNP is hoping to win its first seat in a nationwide election. Its highest
hopes are in the North West, where its chairman Nick Griffin its standing. The
Greens have outscored the BNP in the opinion polls and hope to thwart its
advance.

Hartlepool's monkey Mayor makes the case for independent candidates

Page 12

"Voters often complain about lack of choice. They cannot say that in relation to
Europe"

Leading article, page 32

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

There is a silver lining for Labour: the Tories are suffering as well;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 756 words


Today's elections were never going to be easy for Labour. It started the
campaign with an average opinion poll rating of only 27 per cent. At that level
of popularity, all four of the county councils it is defending looked highly
vulnerable. And with smaller parties always likely to attract votes on a scale
unimaginable in a Westminster election, it seemed the best it could hope for in
the European elections was to repeat the disastrous performance of 23 per cent
it recorded last time.

But after the expenses scandal the party's poll rating has almost been in
freefall. On average just 21 per cent now say they would vote Labour in a
general election. Even if some of that is a temporary loss occasioned by the
unusual prominence of smaller parties during a European election, it is
certainly in at least as much electoral difficulty now as it was in the wake of
the 10p tax row this time last year.

So not only do the local elections now threaten Labour with an unprecedented
whitewash, but the outcome of the European elections could destabilise the party
too. The last four polls of Euro voting intentions put Labour on an average of
just 18 per cent, with both the Liberal Democrats (16 per cent) and Ukip (15 per
cent) apparently breathing down its neck for second place.

Falling below 20 per cent could just be the tipping point that persuades Labour
MPs that Mr Brown needs to go. Certainly Mr Brown's personal poll ratings give
MPs every reason to believe that public perceptions of their leader are
contributing to their electoral difficulties.

If there is a silver lining for Labour it is that the past four weeks have been
torrid for Mr Cameron and the Conservatives too. The Opposition leader has been
rowing rapidly to ensure his party's electoral boat is not swept away by its
involvement in the expenses row. Meanwhile, he has discovered that his
Eurosceptic tone has been insufficient to stem a considerable loss of support in
the European elections to Ukip.

There now seems to be little prospect that the Conservatives will register in
the European elections the kind of performance that would demonstrate the party
is set for victory when the next general election does eventually happen. At 28
per cent, the Tories' average European poll rating is only a little higher than
the 27 per cent it won five years ago. It is well short of the 36 per cent
William Hague managed in 1999. But perhaps an even bigger worry for Mr Cameron
is that his party's performance could now fall short of expectations in the
local elections. Over the past month his party's support has fallen by at least
three points in polls of Westminster voting intentions - and by even more
according to the most recent ComRes poll for this paper. With Ukip contesting
nearly one in four of the 2,300 local seats at stake, the Conservatives will
fear some of its support could seep away to Nigel Farage's party in the local
elections too.

As a result, the Conservative performance could fall well short of the 44 per
cent it secured last year, when the local votes are projected into a nationwide
vote. Mr Cameron will not want the impression formed at this stage of the
electoral cycle that his party's support has begun to recede.

While both Labour and the Conservatives have suffered from the events of recent
weeks, the Liberal Democrats have largely emerged unscathed. Their Westminster
support has held steady at around 18 per cent, while Mr Clegg's personal ratings
have improved dramatically, thanks not least to his involvement in the Gurkhas
campaign. However, this still means the party is less popular than it was on
general election day in 2005, which is when the county council seats at stake
today were last contested.

The Liberal Democrats' relatively Europhile stance and vulnerability to any
surge of support for the Greens means they have often struggled in European
elections. The party will feel queasy that, with the Greens running at 11 per
cent in the polls, up five points on 2004, it could yet suffer the same fate
again. Perhaps all the parties at Westminster will all end up hoping we forget
today's elections as soon as possible.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

CAMPAIGN FOR DEMOCRACY

"Is our democracy under threat?" The Independent is hosting a debate at
Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery on Wednesday 10 June at 6.30pm featuring Clare
Short MP and The Independent's Steve Richards. If you would like to attend
please e-mail rsvp@independent.co.uk, putting the word "DEBATE" in the subject
line.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Campaign to oust Prime Minister gathers pace;
Labour rebels launch coup attempt against Brown on eve of crucial elections
Blears becomes focus of opposition after dramatic resignation from Cabinet

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 837 words


Gordon Brown was clinging on to his job last night as rebel Labour backbenchers
threatened to force him out of Downing Street within days.

The Prime Minister suffered a crushing blow when Hazel Blears resigned as
Communities Secretary on the eve of local and European elections today that
could seal his fate. Ms Blears was incensed by Mr Brown's description of her
non-payment of capital gains tax on the sale of two London flats as "totally
unacceptable".

Her timing was devastating, and seen as a deliberate attempt to destabilise Mr
Brown and trigger a coup. It was the fourth ministerial exit in 24 hours and the
second from the Cabinet.

Mr Brown faces a twin threat: a round-robin email circulating among Labour MPs
calling on him to step down in the interests of the party and the nation, and a
difficult cabinet reshuffle which could backfire rather than end the chaos
engulfing his Government.

Organisers of the "Brown must go" campaign claimed that 80 backbenchers may be
ready to sign the email. They intend to go public on Monday if they get at least
50 backers.

Another option being discussed is securing the 70 names needed for a "stalking
horse" candidate, possibly a left-winger such as John McDonnell, to stand for
the leadership. Such a huge revolt could force Mr Brown to quit without a
special conference being called. That would open the way for other cabinet
ministers to enter the leadership race. "We will get there, one way or the
other," one Labour MP predicted last night. "It's tragic, but Gordon is not up
to it. The only way to get out of this mess is to have the leadership contest we
needed in 2007 [when Tony Blair resigned] or last year."

There were growing signs that ministers may scupper the smooth reshuffle Mr
Brown desperately needs to restore his battered authority. Alistair Darling made
clear he will leave the Cabinet if he is ousted as Chancellor, dashing hopes
among Brownites that he would succeed the departing Jacqui Smith as Home
Secretary.

David Miliband, another possible candidate for the Home Office, wants to remain
as Foreign Secretary, while the Health Secretary Alan Johnson, the man most
likely to take over if Mr Brown is ousted, is also reluctant to move to the Home
Office.

John Reid, the former Home Secretary and a Blairite, turned down the offer of a
surprise cabinet comeback in private talks with Mr Brown. The Independent
understands that Mr Reid stopped Mr Brown in his tracks before a specific job
was mentioned.

There was speculation that Mr Reid was offered a return to the Home Office.
Brown aides insisted they had merely talked about football. Mr Reid is chairman
of Celtic FC.

Amid a feverish atmosphere at Westminster, there were even remarkable rumours
that the Prime Minister would offer a post to Mr Blair. Mr Brown is keen to
recruit a Blairite "big beast" to dissuade allies of Mr Blair from joining the
revolt against him - as he achieved last October by recalling Lord Mandelson,
his long-time foe.

The Business Secretary, who rallied strongly behind Mr Brown yesterday, will be
a pivotal figure in the critical 48 hours ahead. Blairite ministers such as
James Purnell and John Hutton are likely to seek Lord Mandelson's advice on
whether they should stay in the Cabinet. If any of them refused to serve under
Mr Brown, it could bring him down. But there was no sign of that yesterday, when
several ministers including Mr Johnson rushed to the Prime Minister's defence in
a frantic round of media interviews.

Some backbenchers and ministers will make a final decision on whether to back or
try to sack Mr Brown after the council results emerge tomorrow and the European
Parliament results are announced on Sunday night.

One cabinet minister said: "If we come fourth behind Ukip in the Euro elections,
that could be the trigger."

Mr Brown and his advisers will decide today whether to bring forward the
reshuffle from Monday to tomorrow in an attempt to end the disarray sparked by
the departures of Ms Smith and Ms Blears.

Allies insisted Mr Brown would not be pushed out and were relieved that he was
not outgunned by David Cameron at Prime Minister's Questions. They dismissed the
idea that ministers were threatening to scupper the reshuffle, saying that
manoeuvring for jobs always happens before such a shake-up.

Brown allies warned rebel backbenchers that installing a new leader would make
the growing demands for an early general election unstoppable, and pointed out
that many of his Labour critics would lose their seats.

Barry Sheerman, a normally loyal senior Labour backbencher, said: "If the Prime
Minister doesn't realise that, across the party, there is a disillusionment with
the way the parliamentary party has been consulted, treated and valued, he is
heading for trouble."

On other pages

ON OTHER PAGES

Blears drops her bombshell PLUS Simon Carr's Sketch

News, pages 6&7

Elections preview

News, pages 10&11

"There is only blind panic and frantic plotting"

Matthew Norman, page 31

"Labour deserves its fate ... the people do not"

Deborah Orr, page 33

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

WHAT COULD HAPPEN NEXT?

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 474 words


What will happen in today's elections? FIGHTBACK: Voters decide to give a bloody
nose to the main parties. The Tories fail to break through the crucial 40% mark
which puts them on certain course for No 10. MELTDOWN: Labour is massacred over
the economy and expenses. It loses all its remaining county councils and trails
in fourth behind UKIP in Europe. Can Brown survive? FIGHTBACK: The PM uses his
reshuffle to shore up support. He pulls off a Mandelson-style surprise, bringing
back a big gun and stamping his authority on a divided party. If he gets the
balance right, Brown could survive.

MELTDOWN: Reshuffle comes unstuck as senior ministers quit or refuse to be
moved. They may also use the reshuffle to tell Brown to go. He has already been
warned that many will not accept Ed Balls as Chancellor. He could provoke a
leadership bid.

What if the Cabinet rebels?

FIGHTBACK: The PM decides to dig in and sends out allies to defend his record.
Mandelson, David Miliband and Alan Johnson go public with their support, making
it hard for plotters to find a candidate.

MELTDOWN: After sounding out wife Sarah, chief whip Nick Brown and kingmaker
Mandelson, Brown announces he will quit. Labour holds a disastrous leadership
election as the country is buffeted by the expenses and economic crises. Is the
PM out of the woods if he survives the weekend? FIGHTBACK: Yes, he should be
safe until the Labour conference in the autumn. Having stared into the abyss,
the party unites. MPs realise that axing Brown will mean an election which they
have little chance of winning, whoever is leader.

MELTDOWN: Having digested the Euro election results on Sunday night, the
plotters decide to deliver the killer blow. A letter signed by dozens of MPs is
delivered calling on Mr Brown to step down for the good of the party. Brown
realises his time is up at a meeting of Labour MPs and peers on Monday evening,
backbenchers deliver impromptu vote of no confidence. And if he does resign?
FIGHTBACK: Labour will hope for a coronation of Alan Johnson.

Leadership contenders David Miliband and Harriet Harman stand aside to allow
Johnson a clean run. The Brownites accept their fate and rally round.

MELTDOWN: Miliband and Harman stand against Johnson. Leftwinger John McDonnell
throws his hat in.

Any election requires candidates to have the support of 72 MPs. There has to be
a special party conference. That could take at least three weeks to organise.
There is a backlash for a "selfindulgent" fight.

And if Johnson is leader? FIGHTBACK: He calls an election for October, giving
Labour time to rebuild support, recover from the expenses scandal and rally
round him.

MELTDOWN: Johnson is forced to go straight into an election as voters make it
clear they will not accept the second unelected PM in two years. Labour is
regarded as divided and bankrupt and is crushed.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUN Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 2 Star Edition

BLACK DAYS FOR BROWN;
RESULT!

BYLINE: DEREK MCGOVERN; JOHN SHAW

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 195 words


GORDON BROWN has been warned he could face a "stalking horse" leadership
challenge if Labour are trounced in the European polls today.

Brown's support is crumbling around him, he is the butt of every joke and being
constantly ridiculed. And that's just from within the Labour party.

The chances of Labour doing well in the European elections are as slim as
meeting someone who actually bothers voting in them. What's the point of voting
in elections anyway? No matter who you vote for the government always seems to
get in.

Labour are also quoted at just 7-4 by Hills to finish behind both the Lib Dems
and UKIP. That takes some doing because I haven't met anyone who knows what UKIP
stands for, fortunately for them everyone is refusing to stand for Gordon Brown
any more.

This means UKIP can get voted in by opposing everything and proposing nothing,
which strikes me as a decent strategy.

William Hill have now slashed their odds for an October 2009 General Election
from 16-1 to 5-1.

HILLS BETTING: WHEN WILL GENERAL ELECTION TAKE PLACE? 8-13 May; 5-1 October;
10-1 June (2010); November; April; 14 March; 16 July; September; 50 August;
February; 66-1 January; 100-1 December.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIG SQUEEZE Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

IT ALL ENDS IN BLEARS;
HAZEL QUITS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS; JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 914 words


SMILING assassin Hazel Blears plunged the dagger deep into Gordon Brown's back
yesterday - inflicting a wound that may end up killing off his Premiership.

Her announcement she was quitting as Communities Secretary was timed to cause
maximum damage to a PM already reeling from ministerial resignations, a
backbench revolt and a party in turmoil.

It came not only on the eve of European and local elections that are expected to
be a disaster for Labour but also less than two hours before Mr Brown faced
Prime Minister's Question Time.

Wearing a brooch with the message "Rocking the Boat", Ms Blears said she wanted
to "help the Labour Party to reconnect with the British people".

But she pointedly failed to mutter the traditional expressions of support for
the Prime Minister or his policies.

Within hours of her announcement, it was revealed Labour rebels are planning to
publish a email calling for Mr Brown to step down.

The email, described by one MP as a cyber-coup, says: "We are writing now
because we believe that in the current political situation, you can best serve
the Labour Party and the country by stepping down as party leader and prime
minister."

The plotters say they plan to publish it on Monday and hope to have 75 MPs
signed up to it.

They will not publish it unless the number of signatories reaches 50. That is
seen as the "magic number" to bring down Mr Brown, representing one in seven of
all Labour MPs.

Mr Brown will reshuffle his Cabinet tomorrow in an attempt to head off the
potential revolt. There have been rumours that he may bring back Labour hardman
John Reid into the government.

But the reshuffle is already fraught with problems for the PM. Chancellor
Alistair Darling has been telling friends he does not want to be moved.

And Foreign Secretary David Miliband has already dropped a heavy hint that he
expects to hang on to his job.

The PM's future will probably be decided by the 25million people voting in the
council and European elections today. Labour is expected to take a hammering in
the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal. The only question is whether the result
is a disappointment - or a disaster.

In the local elections the party faces its toughest challenge for two decades.

The control of 27 county councils and seven unitary authorities is up for grabs,
almost all in Tory heartlands.

Labour is defending its hold on four counties - Lancashire, Derbyshire,
Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire. The gloom in the party is so deep that just
holding on to one of these will be seen as a victory. A source said: "We may
keep Derbyshire but the others are goners."

A similar drubbing could be on the cards in the Euro elections, often used to
register a protest vote against the national government of the day.

Labour will be delighted if they beat their 2004 EU result of a 22 per cent
share of the votes.

It will be disastrous for them if they fall below 20 per cent and end up third
behind either the Lib Dems or UKIP.

It will nothing short of catastrophic should they finish fourth behind the Lib
Dems and UKIP.

The local election votes should all be in by Friday evening. Most Euro results
will be known by Sunday evening.

If Labour does as badly as many fear, Mr Brown will be facing increasingly
strident calls for his resignation by Monday evening.

The rebels have suggested more Cabinet ministers might resign and predicted a
meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party on Monday would highlight the PM's
lack of support.

One minister yesterday said the PM's chances of survival were no more than
fifty-fifty. And the ex-minister behind the cyber-coup said: "We think he will
reflect on his position on Monday evening and go on Tuesday."

Mr Brown desperately tried to shore up his position yesterday, appealing for
unity during in a series of meetings with disgruntled MPs.

Health Secretary Alan Johnson, seen as the man most likely to succeed Mr Brown,
offered his support. Mr Johnson said: "He is doing the job, he is doing it under
difficult circumstances.

"There is absolutely no one that could do that job better." Asked directly if he
could do it better, he replied "No."

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson urged the party to stay calm. He said: "It is
a challenge to the Prime Minister and the government to keep our nerve."

The resignation of Ms Blears came a day after it was revealed Home Secretary
Jacqui Smith, Children's Minister Beverley Hughes and Cabinet Office Minister
Tom Watson were all going.

Ms Blears followed up her announcement by hinting she will use her new freedom
from ministerial constraints to attack Mr Brown's leadership.

She said: "You can do a huge amount in government but also I genuinely believe
you can do a lot to speak up for people as a backbench MP."

Ms Blears was among the Blairites promoted by Mr Brown when he took power. But
she broke ranks to criticise The PM for launching a new initiative on MPs' pay
over the internet.

Mr Brown was widely seen as getting his own back when he singled her out for
criticism over her expenses.

Ms Blears was forced to pay more than pounds 13,000 to the taxman after
accusations she used a loophole to avoid capital gains tax. The PM branded her
behaviour "totally unacceptable".

Meanwhile, a YouGov poll commissioned by the Daily Telegraph last night
suggested Labour would squeeze ahead of the Lib Dems in the Euro vote but would
be trounced by both UKIP and the Tories.

It predicted the Tories would poll 26 per cent, UKIP 18 per cent, Labour 16 per
cent and the Lib Dems 15 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RALLY David Cameron campaigns in West London yesterday UNDER FIRE PM
Gordon Brown yesterday CYBER COUP Email sent to MPs calling for Brown to resign
SMILES Jacqui Smith yesterday JIBE Brooch with 'rocking the boat' slogan
GRASSROOTS Blears campaigns in Salford in 1984 EARLY DAYS A young Blears plays
an urchin in 1961 film A Taste of Honey with Rita Tushingham, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

WHAT COULD HAPPEN NEXT?

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 538 words


What will happen in today's elections? FIGHTBACK: Voters decide to give a bloody
nose to the main parties. The Tories fail to break through the crucial 40% mark
which puts them on certain course for No 10.

MELTDOWN: Labour is massacred over the economy and expenses. It loses all its
remaining county councils and trails fourth behind UKIP in Europe. Labour rebels
may decide to pre-empt the result by delivering a letter today signed by as many
as 50 MPs calling for Gordon Brown to go. Can Brown survive?

FIGHTBACK: The PM uses his reshuffle to shore up support. He pulls off a
Mandelson-style surprise, bringing back a big gun, winning back the initiative
and stamping his authority on a divided party. If he gets the balance right,
Brown could survive. MELTDOWN: Reshuffle comes unstuck as senior ministers quit
or refuse to be moved. They may also use the reshuffle to tell Brown to go. He
has already been warned that many will not accept Ed Balls as Chancellor. He
could split the party and provoke a leadership bid.

What if the Cabinet rebel? FIGHTBACK: The PM decides to dig in and sends out
allies to defend his record. Mandelson, David Miliband and Alan Johnson, above,
go public with their support, making it hard for plotters to find a candidate.
MELTDOWN: After sounding out wife Sarah, chief whip Nick Brown and kingmaker
Mandelson, Brown announces he will quit. Labour holds a disastrous leadership
election as the country is buffeted by the expenses and economic crises. Is the
PM out of the woods if he survives the weekend? FIGHTBACK: Yes, he should be
safe until the Labour conference in the Autumn. Having stared into the abyss,
the party comes to its senses and unites. MPs realise that axing Brown will mean
an election which they have little chance of winning whoever is leader.

MELTDOWN: Having digested the Euro election results on Sunday night, the
plotters decide to deliver the killer blow. A letter signed by dozens of MPs is
delivered calling on Mr Brown to step down for the good of the party. Brown
realises his time is up at a meeting of Labour MPs and peers on Monday evening,
when backbenchers deliver impromptu vote of no confidence. And if he does
resign? FIGHTBACK: Labour will hope for a coronation of Alan Johnson. Leadership
contenders David Miliband and Harriet Harman stand aside to allow Johnson a
clean run.

The Brownites accept their fate and rally round the new king.

MELTDOWN: Miliband and Harman stand against Johnson. Leftwinger John McDonnell
throws his hat in. Any election requires candidates to have the support of 72
MPs. There has to be a special party conference. That could take at least three
weeks to organise then MPs, party members and unions vote. There is a backlash
for a "self indulgent" fight.

And if Johnson is leader? FIGHTBACK: He calls an election for October, giving
Labour time to rebuild support, recover from the expenses scandal and rally
round him. The poll is held against the backdrop of a recovering economy and
Tory divisions over Europe and spending cuts.

MELTDOWN: Johnson is forced to go straight into an election as voters make it
clear they will not accept the second unelected PM in two years. Labour is
regarded as divided and bankrupt and is crushed.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

IT ALL ENDS IN BLEARS;
REBELS PLOT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS; JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 893 words


GORDON Brown was fighting for his political life last night as he faced a triple
assault on his authority.

Hazel Blears became the fourth minister to resign in 24 hours when she quit as
Communities Secretary.

Her announcement came not only on the eve of European and local elections that
are expected to be a disaster for Labour but also less than two hours before Mr
Brown faced Prime Minister's Question Time.

Wearing a brooch with the message "Rocking the Boat", Ms Blears said she wanted
to "help the Labour Party to reconnect with the British people".

But she pointedly failed to mutter the traditional expressions of support for
the Prime Minister or his policies.

Within hours of her announcement, it was revealed Labour rebels are planning to
publish a email calling for Mr Brown to step down.

The email, described by one MP as a cyber-coup, says: "We are writing now
because we believe that in the current political situation, you can best serve
the Labour Party and the country by stepping down as party leader and prime
minister."

The plotters say they plan to publish it on Monday and hope to have 75 MPs
signed up to it.

They will not publish it unless the number of signatories reaches 50. That is
seen as the "magic number" to bring down Mr Brown, representing one in seven of
all Labour MPs.

Mr Brown will reshuffle his Cabinet tomorrow in an attempt to head off the
potential revolt. There have been rumours that he may bring back Labour hardman
John Reid into the government.

But the reshuffle is already fraught with problems for the PM. Chancellor
Alistair Darling has been telling friends he does not want to be moved.

And Foreign Secretary David Miliband has already dropped a heavy hint that he
expects to hang on to his job.

The PM's future will probably be decided by the 25million people voting in the
council and European elections today. Labour is expected to take a hammering in
the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal. The only question is whether the result
is a disappointment - or a disaster.

In the local elections the party faces its toughest challenge for two decades.

The control of 27 county councils and seven unitary authorities is up for grabs,
almost all in Tory heartlands.

Labour is defending its hold on four counties - Lancashire, Derbyshire,
Staffordshire and Nottinghamshire. The gloom in the party is so deep that just
holding on to one of these will be seen as a victory. A source said: "We may
keep Derbyshire but the others are goners."

A similar drubbing could be on the cards in the Euro elections, often used to
register a protest vote against the national government of the day.

Labour will be delighted if they beat their 2004 EU result of a 22 per cent
share of the votes.

It will be disastrous for them if they fall below 20 per cent and end up third
behind either the Lib Dems or UKIP.

It will nothing short of catastrophic should they finish fourth behind the Lib
Dems and UKIP.

The local election votes should all be in by Friday evening. Most Euro results
will be known by Sunday evening.

If Labour does as badly as many fear, Mr Brown will be facing increasingly
strident calls for his resignation by Monday evening.

The rebels have suggested more Cabinet ministers might resign and predicted a
meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party on Monday would highlight the PM's
lack of support.

One minister yesterday said the PM's chances of survival were no more than
fifty-fifty. And the exminister behind the cyber-coup said: "We think he will
reflect on his position on Monday evening and go on Tuesday."

Mr Brown desperately tried to shore up his position yesterday, appealing for
unity during in a series of meetings with disgruntled MPs.

Health Secretary Alan Johnson, seen as the man most likely to succeed Mr Brown,
offered his support.

Mr Johnson said: "He is doing the job, he is doing it under difficult
circumstances.

"There is absolutely no one that could do that job better." Asked directly if he
could do it better, he replied "No."

Business Secretary Lord Mandelson urged the party to stay calm. He said: "It is
a challenge to the Prime Minister and the government to keep our nerve."

The resignation of Ms Blears came a day after it was revealed Home Secretary
Jacqui Smith, Children's Minister Beverley Hughes and Cabinet Office Minister
Tom Watson were all going.

Ms Blears followed up her announcement by hinting she will use her new freedom
from ministerial constraints to attack Mr Brown's leadership.

She said: "You can do a huge amount in government but also I genuinely believe
you can do a lot to speak up for people as a backbench MP."

Ms Blears was among the Blairites promoted by Mr Brown when he took power. But
she broke ranks to criticise The PM for launching a new initiative on MPs' pay
over the internet.

Mr Brown was widely seen as getting his own back when he singled her out for
criticism over her expenses.

Ms Blears was forced to pay more than pounds 13,000 to the taxman after
accusations she used a loophole to avoid capital gains tax. The PM branded her
behaviour "totally unacceptable".

Meanwhile, a YouGov poll commissioned by the Daily Telegraph last night
suggested Labour would squeeze ahead of the Lib Dems in the Euro vote but would
be trounced by both UKIP and the Tories.

It predicted the Tories would poll 26 per cent, UKIP 18 per cent, Labour 16 per
cent and the Lib Dems 15 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SMILES Jacqui Smith yesterday UNDER FIRE PM Gordon Brown yesterday
RALLY David Cameron campaigns in West London yesterday CYBER COUP Email sent to
MPs calling for Brown to resign JIBE Brooch with 'rocking the boat' slogan EARLY
DAYS A young Blears plays an urchin in 1961 film A Taste of Honey with Rita
Tushingham, above GRASSROOTS Blears campaigns in Salford in 1984

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Feature - Which of the parties will bring us real democracy?;
The public wants public ownership, but mainstream politicians aren't listening.
Neil Clark assesses the options for bringing about change on voting day

BYLINE: Neil Clark

LENGTH: 1487 words


After the revelations of the last few weeks there can be few people in Britain
who would take issue with the cynical view of British "democracy" expressed by
the great Edwardian comic writer Saki.

But it's not just the MPs' expenses scandal which damns our present system of
government. It's the way the leading parties ignore public opinion on the most
important issues of the day.

Take public ownership. Despite opinion polls showing a clear majority in favour
of renationalising the railways, not one of our leading parties even considers
the measure.

The neoliberal, pro-privatisation model has never been so unpopular, yet here we
have an election where the four leading parties, according to opinion polls, can
only offer more of the same.

Labour offers little for supporters of public ownership - the Labour government,
despite Britain's disastrous experience of privatised railways, has been pushing
for other European countries to "liberalise" their excellent domestic rail
services.

The prospect of Virgin Trains, First Great Western and Arriva being allowed to
run services in countries like Belgium is too depressing for words, but if
Labour has its way, it could be happening a few years down the line.

In their Euro manifesto, the staunchly neoliberal Conservatives boast of being
"strong defenders of the single market" and say that their aim is "working to
open up new markets."

At the top of the party's list in the South East region in today's poll, is MEP
Daniel Hannan, an enthusiastic privateer.

In a recent appearance on Fox News in the US, Hannan claimed the NHS was a
60-year "mistake," which made people "iller" and he urged US viewers not to
support plans for socialised health care.

The Liberal Democrats are singing from the same pro-competition hymn sheet.
While the party did call for the renationalisation of Britain's railways in its
2005 manifesto, it has embraced a more "free-market" approach since the
elevation to leadership of the Blairite banker's son Nick Clegg.

The policy to renationalise the railways has been dropped. Instead, all the talk
is about opening markets and increasing "competition."

In its European elections manifesto, the party promises that "Liberal Democrat
MEPs will continue our campaign to extend the single market in the areas of
energy, financial services and transport to so that British firms can provide
services across the EU."

So if you do want to see Stagecoach buses on the streets of Belgium, the
"progressive" Lib Dems will be trying to make it happen.

Then there's UKIP, which if opinion polls are correct, could do very well in
today's polls.

UKIP claims to be a "moderate democratic party." But there's nothing moderate
about its economic policies.

UKIP says that although it will maintain the "free at point of care" principle,
it will "radically reform the working of the NHS."

On rail, it says that it will "make customer satisfaction number one for rail
firms," but there's no talk of returning the railway to public ownership.

Tim Worstall, fourth on the party's list in the London region, is a fellow of
the extreme neoliberal Adam Smith Institute, whose model of railway
privatisation was adopted by the Major government in the mid 1990s. Worstall
considers rail privatisation to have been "rather a success actually."

It's clear that the four parties currently leading the opinion polls offer
nothing for supporters of public ownership.

So what about the other parties?

The Greens, to their credit, promise to spend £2 billion on a railway system
"brought back into public ownership" and to reduce Britain's sky-high rail fares
to the "European average."

Leading Green candidates, such as my fellow Morning Star columnist Derek Wall
who's third on the party's list in the South East region, are strong supporters
of public ownership.

It's disappointing though that the party's European manifesto does not pledge to
renationalise bus transport as well - or bring back energy and utility companies
into public ownership.

On the threats to Europe's state-owned health-care systems, the Green manifesto
says that the party will "support moves for a framework to limiting market
penetration into public services."

Limiting "market penetration" is clearly better than allowing it to run wild,
but why not work to stop all market penetration into public services?

The Christian Party/Christian Peoples Alliance pledges that "multinational
companies will be compelled to act in a transparent and accountable manner," but
there is no mention of nationalisation in its programme.

The BNP opposes the privatisation of the Post Office and other "public services"
including the NHS. It also supports renationalisation of the railways and the
public utilities. But the party's racialist stance in other areas precludes it
from being a party that progressives could consider supporting.

There are though two non-racialist parties standing in the Euro elections which
are strong supporters of public ownership and unequivocal opponents of
privatisation.

In its election campaign, No2EU - Yes to Democracy has drawn attention to the
recent extension of European internal market rules to cover health care, which
are designed to pave the way for private companies to take over state
health-care systems, such as the NHS. No2EU leader Bob Crow, whose RMT union has
consistently campaigned for the renationalisation of Britain's transport network
and which has fought alongside fellow unions in Europe to fight privatisation,
says that anyone who believes in "the NHS and public services should be voting
No2EU."

The Socialist Labour Party, which, like No2EU, is fighting every seat in today's
elections, is also fervently committed to public ownership. The party invited
me, in my capacity as co-founder of the Campaign for Public Ownership, to speak
at the launch of its Euro elections campaign at the Hay Festival.

The SLP, which favours Britain's complete withdrawal from the EU, calls for the
renationalisation of all industries and services privatised in the last 30
years.

Supporters of public ownership should use their vote in today's election wisely
to make sure it goes to parties opposed to the neoliberal privatisation agenda
in Britain and the rest of Europe.

The prospect of Britain sending more enthusiastic privateers to Brussels at a
time when the neoliberal model has never been more discredited would make a
mockery of the idea that Britain is a democracy. Saki would regard such an
outcome with a wry smile - as proof that he was right all along.

- Neil Clark is co-founder of the Campaign For Public Ownership. You can read
more Neil Clark's writings at his award-winning anti-war blog at
www.neilclark66.blogspot.com

ON DEMOCRACY ...

"The people of Britain are what is called a democracy," said Moung Ka.

"A democracy?" questioned Moung Thwa. "What is that?"

"A democracy," broke in Moung Shoogalay eagerly, "is a community that governs
itself according to its own wishes and interests by electing accredited
representatives who enact its laws and supervise and control their
administration.

"Its aim and object is government of the community in the interests of the
community."

"Then," said Moung Thwa, turning to his neighbour, "if the people of Britain are
a democracy - "

"I never said they were a democracy," interrupted Moung Ka placidly.

"Surely we both heard you!" exclaimed Moung Thwa.

"Not correctly," said Moung Ka, "I said they are what is called a democracy."

From The Comments Of Moung Ka in The Square Egg by Saki

Your guide to today's polls

FACTS AND FIGURES

Elections for the European Parliament take place every 5 years

A total of 736 MEPs will be elected over the next few days ...

... in the 27 member countries of the EU

Britain will be electing 69 MEPs ...

... who represent 11 European electoral regions

Each region of Britain is represented by between 3 and 10 MEPs

Northern Ireland is a separate electoral region represented by ...

... 3 MEPs

Residents of Gibraltar will vote in the South West region

THE REGIONS

N Ireland: 3 seats

Scotland: 6 seats

North East: 3 seats

Yorks & Humber: 6 seats

East Midlands: 5 seats

North West: 8 seats

West Midlands: 6 seats

Wales: 4 seats

South West: 6 seats

Eastern: 7 seats

London: 8 seats

South East: 10 seats

THE PARTIES

PARTY: REGION(S) CONTESTING

British National Party: All regions

Christian Party/Christian Peoples Alliance: All regions

Conservative Party: All regions

English Democrats Party: EM, E, L, NE, NW, SE, SW, WM, YH

Jury Team: All regions

Liberal Democrats: All regions

Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall: SW

No2EU: Yes to Democracy: All regions

Plaid Cymru: W

Pensioners Party: SW

Pro Democracy: Libertas.eu: EM, E, L, NE, NW, SE, SW, WM, YH

Scottish Green Party: S

Scottish National Party: S

Scottish Socialist Party: S

Scottish Labour Party: S

Socialist Labour Party: All regions

The Green Party: All regions

The Labour Party: All regions

United Kingdom First: EM, E, SE

United Kingdom Independence Party: All regions

Yes To Europe: L.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Tory peer 'will vote for UKIP'

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


A LEADING Tory donor last night admitted he is set to "lend" his vote to UKIP in
today's European elections.

Lord Kalms - a former Conservative Party treasurer - is urging voters to back
one of the smaller parties.

But the former Dixons chief risks disciplinary action from the Tory party over
his actions.

Businessman Stuart Wheeler was expelled from the party earlier this year after
giving £100,000 to UKIP.

Distaste Eurosceptic Lord Kalms said in a statement last night: "European
elections tomorrow are a unique opportunity for the British electorate to
express their distaste for several current UK policies from all the leading
parties.

"It is an opportunity to vote for personal priorities and, with the exception of
the BNP, I would strongly recommend, as I will do, voting for smaller parties
who represent my major concerns today.

"For myself, I am considering lending my vote to UKIP."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Vote today.. give MPs a bloody nose

BYLINE: KELVIN MacKenzie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words


THIS is your day. The day you have waited most of your life for.

The day that you give the lying, deceitful, cowardly, cunning, criminal weasels
who run our nation a bloody nose they will never forget.

It is enormously important that the politicians from all three parties feel the
full force of your anger. And the only way is through the ballot box.

So I urge you not to vote for the major parties but choose one of the tiddlers
as a V sign to the smug club that loves our money but hates our views.

Brown is a busted flush but still appears in our television studios explaining
how he is going to revolutionise our country.

Isn't it strange that the voting system is perfectly all right until two things
happen: a) We discover they are all crooks, and b) Labour faces 20 years in the
wilderness. Trevor Kavanagh, a clever man, said on SunTalk yesterday that Brown
would be gone next week.

He said: "He's a dead man walking. There's a black spot on him and it's only a
matter of days."

I certainly hope so. Single-handedly, Brown appears to be destroying the Labour
Party. It is an astonishing spectacle.

The Tories are in some ways even more culpable in the expenses scandal.

By and large, Labour MPs are thickos that come up through the councillor or
trade union ranks (Andy Burnham would be a fine example) and know nothing of
commercial life.

This is not true of the Tories, many of whom know what a balance sheet looks
like and how to turn it to their advantage. These MPs deserve a special place in
hell. Cameron has had a good war but if the £600 wisteria bill had been £6,000
he would have to go.

He will win the General Election by a country mile but it is no bad thing to
remind him who are the masters.

The Lib Dems are just as bad. I thought that Lembit Opik billing the taxpayer
for the £40 fine he received for failing to pay his council tax on time was a
classic of its genre.

Nuts

I am a huge fan of Vince Cable but if they had their way they'd concrete over
the Channel to get to Brussels quicker.

They are basically a party of Euro nuts, whereas my view is that we are an
island nation and fundamentally Eurosceptic.

On that basis I would urge you to put your cross down for either Libertas or
UKIP. Personally, I would go for Libertas as I am an admirer of Declan Ganley,
who almost single-handedly got the Irish people to reject the Lisbon Treaty.

We want men like that putting the Euro bureaucrats' feet to the fire.

Whoever you vote for, have in mind that you are teaching the political classes a
lesson that will last a lifetime.

Perhaps when they see the result they will fully understand who really runs our
country.

It's us. Not them.

I hear Susan Boyle has contacted Gordon Brown to ask if he is OK and said that
from tonight there will be a spare bed next to her in The Priory.

What do you think? Have your say at thesun.co.uk/columnists.

OXO have produced a special black and white cube to mark Newcastle's season.
It's called Laughing Stock.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

European election farce is like BGT.. minus the talent

BYLINE: BILL Leckie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 756 words


THE European elections. Where the unscrupulous beg the disinterested to vote on
the incomprehensible.

Democracy in action, courtesy of chancers whose idea of democracy IS inaction.

Look at the list of candidates in front of you today. If there's more than one
you could pick out in an ID parade, you're either one of them or a member of
their family.

And even then there's no guarantee you'd be sure if the lights were dim.

Yet this list of trained chimps in rosettes drops through our doors and with it
comes a massive, publicly-funded campaign telling us how vital it is that we
choose one of them.

Why isn't really made clear. But then, that's the real genius of the whole Euro
shindig.

Continuing to exist in the lap of luxury without anyone ever really knowing what
the hell they do.

I mean, we know why we have a local council - to pay rent and rates to and
complain about damp houses to and bitch about when they scoot off to the odd
conference in Cannes.

We know why we have a government in London - to pay tax to and complain about
when they start illegal wars and claim gigantic wedges to pay to have their pet
tortoises sandblasted.

We even know why we have Holyrood. It's so we can wonder what it is they do that
our local council or London can't.

But for the life of me, I just can't get a grip on what that lot in Brussels and
Strasbourg are for.

Scowl Don't just take my cynical word, either - look at the survey in Tuesday's
paper that found some were recognised by just TWO PER CENT of the public.

And if you're still not sure, log onto the WikiAnswers website and type in: What
is the purpose of the European Parliament? The message will come back: "This
question has not yet been answered." Case closed.

So it is through this cloud of confusion and distrust that we look at our lost
of candidates for today's poll and we scowl and shrug and sigh.

Before, in the end, pretty much plumping for the nobody we couldn't care less
about the least.

Hardly a recipe for bold, innovative governance.

Especially when whoever wins this lottery of the absurd then goes off to make
fortunes and live a life of glamour and privilege whether they've got a brain in
their head or not.

All in all, it's a bit like Britain's Got Talent. But without the talent.

For me, the European Parliament is where you go if you don't have the savvy to
make it into Westminster but you're a world-class expert on creaming the system.
Seriously. Take a look at some of the expenses claims coming out of Brussels.

New figures show that MEP claim an average of £125,000 each to pay staff,
whether they actually HAVE staff or not. It's reckoned that Britain's 78 MEPs
pay family members a total of around £700,000 a year to work for them. The
leader of the the UK Independence Party group in the parliament boasts of having
raked in £2MILLION in exes over the past ten years.

These people make our MPs look like they've blagged a box of pens and some
Post-It notes from the office.

You would, then, be entitled to ask why nothing has been done about it. Why no
urgent report into this rampant fiddling has been commissioned.

Well, it has. In fact, it's already been published. But it was only shown to
MEPs themselves.

So, to recap, the only people who know the true depths of this scandal are the
people who created it in the first place. Which is about as much use to the
electorate as a free chocolate teapot with every vote.

As much use, in fact, as the European Parliament itself.

An institution they'd be better renaming as EuroDisney. Seeing as it Disney
work, Disney make a difference and it Disney give a monkey's who knows it. By
the time Scotland's seven new MEPs take their comfy seats, their salary will
have risen to just over £80,000 without them lifting a finger.

And the most damning indictment of all is that it won't really matter what
rosette they wear, what issues they campaigned on or what promises they made.

Once they get there, they'll disappear into the morass of mystery and
mismanagement just the same as all the ones who've gone before them.

Draw Seriously, who cares if Labour's votes fall to an all-time low? If the
Tories get a lift? Or even if the BNP's knuckleheads cash in on all the big
parties being useless? This past few weeks has proved that they're all pretty
much the same when it comes to integrity, decency and leadership.

So if I were you, I'd stay home today and make it the first ever nil-nil draw in
polling history.

Or better still, live by this home-made slogan.

The European Elections: The perfect excuse to take a holiday in America.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Make your mark

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 410 words


WHEN Hazel Blears became the fourth minister in two days to desert Gordon
Brown's sinking ship yesterday, she wore a brooch with the cheeky message
Rocking The Boat.

Today it is your turn. And YOU can Rock the Vote.

Forty-five million people in the UK are entitled to choose members of the
European Parliament.

And last night's dramatic Gordon-must-quit letter going around Labour MPs makes
it even more vital YOU have a say in his fate - by exercising your vote today.

Disastrous poll results for Labour in the Euro and local elections could hole
him below the waterline and finally sink his Premiership.

Better than expected results might give the PM a new lease of life.

It's your choice today - use it. It's no good complaining, either, about our
money-grubbing politicians if you don't make the effort to put your X next to
the party you think will be best at cleaning up the Westminster midden.

And it's futile whingeing about the broken promises of a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty unless you are prepared to get out of your armchair and vote Tory
- the one party that still holds out the hope of letting you say No to Brussels.

The trouble with protesting by staying home is MPs will say a low turnout allows
them to ignore you.

At the last Euro elections five years ago fewer than 4 in 10 voted.

At general elections, the turnout has collapsed from 84% in 1950 to a shameful
60% in the first two of the 21st century.

The fury sweeping the country over MPs' expenses fiddles SHOULD mean that today
there are queues outside polling stations even before they open.

After all, democracy only really works one day every four or five years when the
voters take control.

The Government appears to be in meltdown. There is a policy vacuum at its heart
that has left towns like Luton, as we report today, grappling with crime,
immigration problems and economic collapse.

Some people might still want to vote Labour. Others will support the Lib Dems,
Greens or even UKIP.

Any vote is better than none, with the exception of those who think Hitler's
Children - in the guise of the racist BNP - are the answer.

So if you want to tell moat-cleaning, duck house-claiming, porn movie-charging
MPs what you think of them ... VOTE.

If you want a referendum on Lisbon ... VOTE.

If you fancy giving Gordon his marching orders ... VOTE.

If you demand a General Election now ... VOTE.

It's your only chance to make your voice heard loud and clear. Don't throw it
away. You could make history.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Today's vote will seal fate

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


GORDON Brown faces a day of destiny today as millions go to the polls in the
European and local elections.

Senior Cabinet ministers warned a leadership challenge could be strengthened if
support falls below 20 per cent.

Labour strategists fear the party may finish a humiliating FOURTH in the Euro
election - behind the Tories, Lib Dems and UK Independence Party.

The elections today are split into two - local councils and European.

A total of 34 local councils are up for grabs. Labour is set to lose Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Staffordshire.

Most of the results will be announced tomorrow.

The Prime Minister must wait until Sunday to hear the outcome of the Euro
election.

Last night a YouGov poll said Labour's support will shrink to 16 per cent. It
predicted the party will be third, ahead of the Lib Dems but behind Tories on 26
per cent and UKIP with 18 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Polling day ... voters decide

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Make your voice heard;
THE SCOTTISH Sun SAYS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words


When Hazel Blears became the fourth minister in two days to desert Gordon
Brown's sinking ship yesterday she wore a cheeky brooch with the message
"Rocking the Boat."

Today it is your turn. And YOU can Rock the Vote.

Forty-five million people in the United Kingdom are entitled to choose members
of the European Parliament.

And last night's dramatic Gordon-must-quit letter doing the rounds of Labour MPs
makes it even more vital that YOU have a say in his fate - by exercising your
right to vote today.

Disastrous poll results for Labour in the Euro and local elections could finally
hole him below the waterline and and sink his premiership. Better than expected
results might give the PM a new lease of life.

You have the choice today - use it. It's no good complaining, either, about the
shameful behaviour of our money-grubbing politicians if you don't make the
effort to put your "X" next to the party you think will be best at cleaning up
the Westminster midden.

And it's futile whingeing about the broken promises of a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty unless you are prepared to get out of your armchair and vote for
the Tories - the only party that still holds out the hope of allowing you to say
"No" to Brussels.

Ignore

The trouble with protesting by staying at home is that MPs will say a low
turnout means they can ignore you.

At the last Euro elections five years ago fewer than 40per cent of people voted.

The fury sweeping the country over MPs expense fiddles SHOULD mean that today
there are queues outside polling stations.

The Government appears to be in meltdown. Yet some people might still want to
vote Labour. Others will support the SNP, Lib Dems, the Greens or even UKIP.

Any vote is better than none - with the exception of those who think Hitler's
Children, in the guise of the racist BNP, are the answer.

So if you want to tell moat-cleaning, duck house-claiming, porn movie-charging
MPs what you think of them - VOTE.

If you want a referendum on Lisbon - VOTE.

If you fancy giving Gordon his marching orders - VOTE.

If you demand a General Election now - VOTE.

It's your only chance to make your voice heard loud and clear. Don't throw it
away.

You could change history.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 4, 2009 Thursday 5:56 PM GMT

The EU elections that we can only lose

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 945 words


I have a strong feeling that on Sunday night as election results, dominated by
low turnout, come into Brussels there will be the old complaint that the
European Union simply does not have the voters that it deserves.

EU types see public indifference and hostility to what goes on in elevated
bodies such as the European Parliament as a communication problem - we simply
don't get it.

"Why, oh why," is the constant complaint I hear from MEPs and EU officials, "is
it that the media and voters do not understand all the good things that we do
for them."

This is why the EU spends so much time trying to communicate (see here for dumb
and dumber), to break through our ignorance and to transmit enlightened
information about the good works delivered to us by our rulers.

There is an interesting piece, here in the Australian, by Prof. Frank Furedi
that unpicks some of the underlying politics behind the euro elections and elite
unease when people are wheeled onto the EU stage - even as extras.

I have written at some length on this blog about how the EU has become an
important form, held in common by all European national administrations, for the
conduct of politics in a public free zone.

The more politicians cut themselves off from the public - I chart the
institutions and process in some detail here - the less able they are to lead,
motivate or inspire publics across Europe.

"The EU's hostile response to recent referendums in France, the Netherlands and
more recently in Ireland, reveals that it is a Union of rulers united in
mistrust of the people, not a Union of leaders prepared to make a case and to
take their people with them," I wrote for the Manifesto Club last year.

"Political structures, both at national and EU level, have increasingly become a
machine for transmitting decisions taken by enlightened bodies down to voters.
This development comes at a moment when the political classes and establishments
across Europe are unable take voters with them."

The EU, as with many other governmental structures and practices in Whitehall,
is not really made for us and shows our rulers (as we have seen with Westminster
MPs) to have the mentality of bureaucrats not political leaders.

As Prof Furedi puts it institutions such as the EU and events such as the
European elections tend to confirm "people's cynicism towards conventional
political life".

"Worse still, the insulation of decision-making directly contributes to the
hollowing out of public life, which far too many people see as pointless and
irrelevant," he writes.

"In such circumstances movements that are able to politicise people's anger and
dissatisfaction are able to make significant headway. So it is not surprising
that right-wing nationalist parties have succeeded in gaining momentum."

Apart from the eurosceptic Ukip (whose desire to return to a 1970s little
England is not my cup of tea), the political mainstream has essentially
campaigned negatively, raising the spectre of a triumph for BNP extremists
unless people get out to vote.

Vote for us or else the fascists win - it ain't much of a pro-European or any
other kind of argument.

Many commentators have observed a "paradox" that as the European Parliament is
about to be consulted on more legislation (it is not a body that makes laws)
under the Lisbon Treaty, yet more voters are uninterested.

"The EU will in all likelihood face an enormous and embarrassing paradox. At the
heart of its operations will be a multinational parliament with more powers to
affect people's lives than at any stage in the continent's post-1945 story of
integration. But if elected by only a shrunken minority of citizens, it would
represent a sorry state of affairs for those who care about the EU and
democracy," the FT noted last week.

The real paradox, however, as Prof Furedi puts it, "is that the culture of
insulated decision-making has created an environment that is hospitable to the
growth of political frustration and bitterness".

Low turnout and gains for nationalists or extremists will inevitably be seen as
"our fault" based on the public's perceived inability to know what is good for
them.

It will be used to confirm the "we know best" outlook of our rulers, to
reinforce the cynicism and the low expectations in which the public's capacities
are held.

Elsewhere, the bullshit debate, puffed up by both Brussels types and
eurosceptics, about how much national legislation is derived from the EU is very
well dissected here by Nosemonkey.

Whether it is 80 per cent, 75 per cent or whatever, this figure is often used to
underline how important the European Parliament is, either to make the
nationalist case for a eurosceptic or to shore up the self-importance of a
mainstream MEP (see here for an egregious example).

The fundamental significance of the EU, or any other state form, is less about
how many laws it makes than what its structures and practices tell us about how
politics is conducted.

Addressing this question also helps us get to grips with some of the new types
of legislation and regulation we see, laws and administration based, like
political structures, on deep rooted mistrust of people.

This is particularly evident in the area of civil liberties - both at home and
at the EU level, read here and here. There are other forms too.

The EU debate needs, like discussions over the failure of the House of Commons,
to become constitutional in the true sense of the word.

It needs to be about the nature of politics, who participates in politics, and
to ask for whom political structures are organised.

It needs to become an argument about what politics should be, in opposition to
how it is - I don't see that in this European election.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Economic disarray offers whiff of victory to the Right;
Left-of-centre parties are struggling in the big six countries of Europe that
choose the majority of MEPs, writes David Charter in Brussels

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38,39

LENGTH: 1066 words


The big beasts of Europe are set to claim victory for the Right in this week's
elections, leaving the Left to wonder why it has failed to benefit from such a
serious economic crisis.

Left-of-centre parties in government and in opposition are struggling in the six
countries of Europe that choose the majority of MEPs in the biggest multicountry
elections yet held, according to an analysis of polls due out today and seen by
The Times. About 375 million people in 27 member states are eligible to vote.

Governing left-wing parties in Spain and Germany are struggling while the
socialist opposition is in crisis in France, Italy and Poland. So it is the
likes of Nicolas Sarkozy, Angela Merkel and Silvio Berlusconi who are likely to
emerge with the biggest smiles after the votes have been counted.

Projections for the European Parliament show that the centre Right will remain
the largest group, predicted to capture 262 of the 736 seats, with the centre
Left trailing on 194 and the Liberal group losing ground with 85 seats,
according to predict09.eu run by the London School of Economics and Trinity
College Dublin.

Analysts said that some of the centre-right parties were harnessing nationalist
sentiment - with Mr Serkozy ruling out Turkish EU membership and Mr Berlusconi's
party putting out anti-immigrant messages - or they had simply adopted the main
planks of Blairism - high public sector spending, liberalised markets and social
justice - leaving the centre Left with nothing new to offer.

Fringe parties are also set to benefit, with the Greens forecast to perform well
in Britain and France, as well as a good showing for the populist right wing,
such as the UK Independence Party, forecast to win ten seats (down two on 2004)
and Geert Wilders's anti-Muslim Freedom Party in the Netherlands with six. The
survey does not predict that the British National Party will make a
breakthrough.

"Most of the action is on the Right between the mainstream and more populist
Right emerging across Europe," said Professor Simon Hix, of the LSE. "The
failure of the Left is really their failure in the big six countries - voters in
France are going to a more radical Left, in Germany votes are going to Die Linke
[also radical left-wing] and the Spanish Government is suffering a mid-term
swing, while the Left has all but disappeared in Poland and is in crisis in
Italy."

Victory for the Right when the results are announced on Sunday night would mean
that José Manuel Barroso, the former conservative Prime Minister of Portugal,
should be reconfirmed as President of the European Commission. In another sign
of the disarray of Europe's Left, it has yet to agree on a candidate to oppose
him.

"At a time of economic crisis you would expect sitting governments to do badly
and to be punished by the voters, and you would expect centre Left parties to do
better," said Jacki Davis, of the European Policy Centre. "But broadly speaking
the Left is struggling to convey what they would do about the current situation.
They are not giving voters a clear vision."

Fringe anti-Establishment parties will pick up seats but a revolution in
Brussels seems unlikely because of their disparate views. The Swedish Pirate
Party, forecast to win two seats on a campaign to scrap most copyright laws
after the prosecution of a popular downloading website, is likely to sit with
the Liberals or the Greens in the Parliament.

Hugo Brady, research Fellow at the Centre for European Reform, added: "The real
story of these elections is not the increase in the political fringe forces but
the crisis in the centre Left. We seem a long way away from the days of
progressive governance conferences and drawing inspiration from new Labour.

"Across Europe the centre-right parties are seen as the parties you turn to and
trust as a safe pair of hands."

In Britain, where the number of seats is being reduced from 75 to 69,
predict09.eu puts the Conservatives on 24 seats (down 3 on 2004 result), Labour
15 (down 4), Liberal Democrats 10 (down 2), UKIP 10 (down 2), Green 6 (up 4),
SNP 3 (up 1) and Plaid Cymru 1 (same). The full projection for the European
elections forecasts that the new anti-federalist conservative group being formed
by David Cameron and allies in the Czech Republic and Poland will become the
fourth-largest bloc in the European Parliament with 53 seats. They will be
followed closely by Greens on 50.

The British National Party would have to win about 8 or 9 per cent of the vote
to secure a seat in to its main target region, the North West of England where
its leader, Nick Griffin, in the candidate.

Mr Griffin is aiming to help to revive a pan-European grouping of the far Right
in the European Parliament that would increase the BNP's profile dramatically,
with guaranteed speaking rights for the group in every debate. It would bring
the BNP a share of about £1 million extra a year for secretarial and office
support, beyond the MEPs' already generous annual allowances of up to £350,000
each.

Besides the BNP, the new group could include Jean-Marie Le Pen's Front National
from France, the Forza Nuova from Italy, the Austrian Freedom Party, Flemish
Interest from Belgium, Movement for a Better Hungary, the Greater Romanian Party
and Attack from Bulgaria. Their campaigns have been fuelled by nationalistic
slogans and hostility towards immigrants and ethnic minor-ities. Mr Griffin is
understood to have held talks with representatives from several of these
parties.

Attempts to create a far-right bloc have foundered spectacularly in the past,
however, with the short-lived Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty group in the
last Parliament breaking up after 11 months in a row about xenophobic insults.

The Greater Romanian MEPs stormed out in protest at remarks by Alessandro
Mussolini, granddaughter of Il Duce, who said that all Romanians were criminals.
Ms Mussolini has now found a role in the Italian parliament in Silvio
Berlusconi's alliance of right-wing parties.

One of the last acts of MEPs before breaking up for the elections was to make it
harder for a fringe group to be formed by raising the bar from 20 to 25 MEPs.
They also rushed through an amendment to stop 81-year-old Jean-Marie Le Pen, as
the oldest MEP, from acting as Father of the House.

Online

Exclusive Interactive map Who controls what in councils Q& A Your guide to the
elections 10 councils to watch timesonline.co.uk/elections

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A poster for the European elections in front of EU headquarters in
Brussels. About 375 million people in 27 countries can vote between June 4 and 7

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

From high to low: Brown's grip on power

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5,6,7,8,9

LENGTH: 442 words


Our popularity index Popular Unpopular

June 27, 2007 Gordon Brown becomes Prime Minister; appoints Jacqui Smith as the
first female Home Secretary

July 26, 2007 "Brown bounce" increases rumours of a snap general election in the
autumn

September 15-17, 2007 Run on Northern Rock; Government guarantees savings

October 6, 2007 Brown rules out an autumn election

November 27, 2007 Funding scandal over proxy donations as Harriet Harman is
forced to pay back a £5,000 gift

February 17, 2008 Alistair Darling announces the nationalisation of Northern
Rock

April 17 - May 13, 2008 Bitter row over scrapping of the 10p tax band; Brown is
forced to announce package of help

May 1, 2008 Labour suffers disastrous local election results, losing 331 seats

May 23, 2008 Labour loses Crewe and Nantwich by-election

July 30, 2008 David Miliband sets out an apparent leadership bid in Guardian
article

June 11, 2008 42-day detention without trial backed by the Commons but only
because of Ulster MPs' support

September 12-15, 2008 Leadership speculation as whip Siobhain McDonagh forced to
resign over plot, and rebels such as Barry Gardiner line up. David Cairns,
Scotland Minister, quits

September 2-5, 2008 The pound falls, car sales crash and house prices plummet as
the credit crunch takes hold

September 15-17, 2008 Lehman Brothers collapse provokes panic; Brown engineers
the Halifax rescue by Lloyds TSB

September 24, 2008 Brown uses conference speech to say "no time for a novice";
Ruth Kelly resignation leaked

October 3, 2008 Peter Mandelson is brought back in a dramatic reshuffle

October 7-12, 2008 £50bn bank bailout is announced; RBS is taken into state
control February 2009 A row breaks out over bonuses for bankers and Sir Fred
Goodwin's pension

April 12, 2009 Damian McBride, a key adviser to Brown, is forced to resign after
smear e-mails are leaked

April 20, 2009 Gordon Brown releases his proposals for expenses reform on
YouTube but is soon forced to backtrack

April 22, 2009 The Budget doubles borrowing to £175bn and increases the top rate
of tax to 50% May 8, 2009 The Daily Telegraph begins publishing its revelations
about MPs' expenses

April 29, 2009 The Government is defeated on settlement rights for Gurkhas after
a campaign by Joanna Lumley

May 15 Alan Johnson sets out his proposals for electoral reform in an article in
The Times May 19 The Speaker bows to pressure and announces his resignation

May 30 Labour falls behind UKIP in an opinion poll on 21%, its lowest rating
ever

June 2 Jacqui Smith, Tom Watson and Beverley Hughes announce their resignations

June 3 Hazel Blears, discredited in the expenses scandal, announces her
resignation from the Cabinet

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Profile;
David Sullivan;
Newspaper publisher;
Birmingham City owner takes pitch to save Daily Sport;
Publisher with a past in pornography hopes to steer tabloid back to its glory
days, writes Rowena Mason

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 994  words


'YOU must be a journalist,'' says the taxi driver. "Because you don't have all
your bits hanging out.'' We are heading for the Essex mansion of one of
Britain's wealthiest men, known for his ability to make money from newspapers,
football - and pornography.

Among stone goddesses and lions, a mock-Georgian palace looms beyond the long
drive. Inside, the hallway is crammed with gold-encrusted furniture,
horse-racing trophies and several disconcerting life-sized mannequins of serving
staff.

"I call that one Mr Creepy,'' says a genial cockney voice behind me. "It always
seems to be watching you.''

David Sullivan has emerged from behind a vast desk, covered in neat piles of
paper. "So what do you want to talk about?'' he challenges.

The owner of Birmingham City FC, a chain of 100 sex shops and a large property
portfolio has just stepped in to prevent the first national newspaper casualty
of the recession. Both the Daily Sport and Sunday Sport were within a week of
bankruptcy before Sullivan offered a loan, took share options of 9.9pc and
returned as "honorary publisher''.

Small, with greased-back hair, the 60-year-old is wearing a Versace shirt and
velvet slippers. "Lending my money is high risk, but morally, I wanted to save
jobs.''

We embark on a tour of his 10-acre estate, taking in the pool, tennis courts and
deer park. It is opulent - over the top, even. But the likeably down-to-earth
Sullivan only has one house and a single car, despite wealth topping  pounds
500m.

Sullivan founded the Sport in 1986, sparking a red-top war . The "sex and
sensation'' titles, known for their nude girls and jokey content, once sold
660,800 copies each Sunday. Now it shifts just 70,000 a day.

So what went wrong after Sullivan sold out to Sport Media Group in 2007? The
problems started with its  pounds 1m relaunch as a cross between "Nuts, Zoo,
Bravo and Sky Sports'' and sales plummeted. Sullivan bemoans the transformation
into a titillating lads' mag with shock-and-horror real-life stories and a
centre spread with four women in a bath - too unnatural for Sport readers.

But his return to media was not purely altruistic. He was also tempted by the
challenge of reviving failing titles with the power of his personality. "I hope
that within three months we'll be up year-on-year,'' he says, indulging in a
peculiar tick - licking his finger and dabbing at his neck, arms, face. "I've
got a great conscience. I didn't want people to think I'd sold it to make money
and left it to fail.''

Immediately, Sullivan shut the loss-making Irish version and sold off lads' mag,
Front. He has only visited the Sport's Manchester HQ once in 23 years,
preferring to cultivate an "air of mystery'' from afar, but the saviour and his
cheque book have already decided that the new version will picture "more
wholesome'' women. He also wants to tackle political issues, endorsing UKIP for
the EU elections, and has brought back money-off vouchers for his chain of
Private Shops.

Circulation is up 8pc since he took over but it is an uphill struggle. For all
his swagger, Sullivan admits he has no idea if it will work. "But I firmly
believe that there will always be newspapers and the Sport will be one of
them,'' he says. "Newspapers have created their graves by being negative.''

There is one thing for news publishers to be grateful for: pornographic
publishing is doing even worse.

"Sex shops are a dead business,'' says Sullivan, who made his first million
through mail-order porn and was briefly jailed for living off immoral earnings.
"There is so much foreign stuff through the mail that shops can't keep up.''

In the 1980s, Sullivan dabbled in blue movies but now he seems reluctant to talk
about the sex industry. He drops his time at Watford Grammar and BA in economics
from Queen Mary's into conversation - hinting at the juxtapositions of his past
as well as the complexities of his character.

Despite being nicknamed the "Sultan of Sleaze'' in an unauthorised biography,
most of Sullivan's working time is now absorbed by Birmingham City FC, owned
with business partner David Gold, famed for his Ann Summers chain.

Sullivan would "love to buy West Ham'', currently up for sale, but not while he
still owns Birmingham. "The fans really want the Sultan of Brunei or someone,''
Sullivan says. "I've no desire to spend my sons' inheritance on football and we
just don't have the money to compete with bigger clubs.''

A workaholic, he puts in

16-hour days and never stops thinking about transfers or circulation. Property
is also on his mind now there are fire-sale prices across the market. "I'm back
buying. People will stay at home so I'm looking at places like Newquay.''

Sullivan is also mulling an entry into politics, but was held back from standing
as a UKIP candidate for Europe by the high-profile police inquiry into his
dealings at Birmingham FC. He strongly denies any wrongdoing.

"It started off as a bung inquiry and then became about tax,'' he moans, rubbing
his face. "It's awful. I've been interviewed four times, and there's another in
eight weeks.''

It is these issues that have also prevented the lifelong Tory voter from
donating money to the Conservatives, he claims.

So what does he think of his detractors? "Oh, British people are prudes,'' he
laughs. "But hypocrisy is what I don't like - people who gave me a hard time and
then are seen at orgies, taking drugs.''

He is now at pains to cast himself as a family-orientated man, frequently
mentioning his two young sons and his current girlfriend, the glamour model Eve
Vorley. "The most important thing is that my boys grow up to be nice people,''
he says. "I've never had a cigarette or drug. I don't drink. In my own way, I'm
a very clean, liberal and moral person.''

Favourite newspaper I read all the tabloids at breakfast

Car I've a Rolls-Royce Phantom but my partner has a Bentley

Best holiday Dubai, Las Vegas, France

Like reading Horse-racing fiction

Motto Five words: "What's in it for me?''

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Nationalists will benefit from our protest votes;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 1040  words


THE polls have made it clear that the Scottish Nationalists are likely to do
particularly well in tomorrow's European election vote, almost certainly
emerging as the front runners and comfortably hammering Labour into second
place.

In this respect, the election will be very different to that which is taking
place south of the Border. While in England the major parties can expect a
withering verdict on their respective MPs' expenses shenanigans - and almost all
MPs are tainted, if many are innocent - the SNP, the party of government in
Scotland, should suffer no such voter backlash.

While, on one level, British politics is in the midst of the greatest crisis to
have afflicted it in modern times, on another, Scottish politics has come out of
the past three weeks of expenses revelations relatively unscathed. And so it
should, Holyrood having been under the beady eye of the media and public from
day one.

The result is that the smaller parties - such as UKIP, the Greens, the various
Socialist organisations and the BNP - cannot expect to make the kind of headway
up here as they are looking forward to elsewhere.

The advantage for Alex Salmond and his party is two-fold; the protest vote
should not go automatically to the tiddlers and, what's more, Conservatives and
Labour in Scotland will be hammered by the disdain voters feel for the two most
culpable parties involved in the expenses scandals.

Suddenly, due in the main to the fury of the public, the campaign has taken on a
new meaning for people - not so much due to any great concern with the EU, or
its influence over British or Scottish society - but more as a protest against
politicians in general, but not, it would appear, the Nationalists.

The SNP, indeed, can be seen as the beneficiaries of public disgust with the
body politic in a similar manner enjoyed by the little parties in England.

As the weeks, days and hours have been ticked off as election day has
approached, Team Salmond can have hardly been able to believe their luck.

As the expenses row grew to a crescendo, the Speaker, Michael Martin, a man in a
position which normally has been beyond reproach, was forced to stand down. And
here was yet another traditional Labour seat, Glasgow North East, on which
suddenly the public spotlight fell after decades in the shadow of Labour machine
politics.

Overnight, journalists marched into Springburn and, in a manner similar to the
scrutiny brought to bear on Glasgow East last summer, scratched the surface of
years of Labour rule and found discontent, unemployment, little hope and, above
all, that party's smug complacency.

Mr Martin was, is, a decent man, but here was evidence of something much deeper
even than the revelations about MPs allowances. The light was again shed on how
Labour had governed Scotland, whether nationally or locally for all those years.
It merely confirmed what the mass of the public had already come to suspect:
that the problems of constituents were relatively low down that party's
priorities. The Government in London is looking increasingly rudderless. Its
supporters north of the Border have been drifting away for more than two years,
and that drift has become a virtual torrent in recent weeks. Labour is expected
to poll around 24 per cent of the vote in Scotland, a terrible position for a
party that only a few years ago believed it would rule, if not for a thousand
years, at least for a generation or more.

Until the avalanche of disclosures of MPs' greed began, the Scottish
Conservatives could have expected to reap some of the benefit of Labour's
wretched standing among the electorate. David Cameron has enjoyed a grudging
respect in Scotland, in itself a vast turnaround for a national Tory leader, but
has suffered by the expenses crisis, if not nearly as badly as Gordon Brown.

It looks now as if the Tories will manage about 13 per cent of tomorrow's vote,
which is considerably less than the Scottish party hoped for several weeks ago
when, in some polls, it looked to be about to stage its greatest popularity
boost in more than two generations.

But while tomorrow's European election presents the public with their first
chance to punish political parties, an abstention would be wrong and, let's face
it, slightly cowardly. Declaring "a plague on all your houses" is an easy
option, requiring no effort whatever and will achieve nothing apart from letting
the major parties off the hook.

If you are rightly determined to vote, but cannot bring yourself to aid the
Nationalists and their ultimate aim of breaking up the UK, and will not vote for
Labour or the Tories, there are still those small parties. Good for a protest
vote, if that gets something off your chest.

The United Kingdom Independence Party, UKIP, has a clear platform of leaving the
EU and, instead, negotiating a free trade agreement with our continental
cousins, saving many billions of pounds a year in membership costs and bringing
home sovereignty lost to Brussels.

Led in a straightforward, cheerful and courageous way by Nigel Farage, it has
braved many smears from the political class and its media allies. It did well at
the last European elections and deserves to do better still this time.

Another choice available is the Jury Team project of businessman Sir Paul Judge,
who is putting up a slate of independent men and women who have won open primary
selection processes. Never has the need for more such people in politics been so
obvious.

SOME will also flirt with voting for the Green Party. But its quasi-socialist
nature and ideological opposition to economic growth disqualify it from serious
consideration.

There is one small party that should be dismissed altogether. A single vote for
the BNP will be one too many.

Behind the sharp-suited, smooth-talking Nick Griffin is an organisation that has
racism at its core. It bans non-whites from membership and even contains many
Holocaust deniers.

The Conservatives deserve a decent turnout. It would help them on their quest to
become the major opposition party in Scotland. But, after the past few weeks,
David Cameron and Scottish leader Annabel Goldie must expect to take their share
of the punishment.

Whatever, the best result for democracy tomorrow will be an epic defeat for
Labour.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COUNTDOWN: Voters will punish Labour and the Tories tomorrow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now is the moment to register a protest vote;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 1007  words


TOMORROW'S European and local elections present the British public with their
first chance to punish political parties for the scandal of MPs' expenses. Over
the past few weeks leading figures from all three main Westminster parties have
been shown to have taken taxpayers for a ride.

Scores of MPs, including many frontbenchers, have indulged in greedy, ethically
indefensible conduct. Some may have crossed the line into outright criminality,
although the police seem remarkably reluctant to investigate that possibility.

Never before in modern times has the public mood been so hostile towards
parliamentarians. For the past three weeks even the audiences of BBC1's Question
Time - normally a mild, liberal-minded bunch - have given off the fury of the
mob. Labour, Tory and Lib Dem MPs alike have been howled down.

The first instinct of many when thinking about whom to support tomorrow will be
to support nobody at all. European and local authority elections are notorious
for low turn-outs and it may be that the number of people abstaining in disgust
is particularly high this time.

That would be both a great shame and a wasted opportunity. Declaring "a plague
on all your houses" is an easy option requiring no effort whatever.

But it will achieve nothing apart from letting the major parties off the hook.

DID Tony Blair fret that his election wins were delivered despite the failure of
40 per cent of people to vote? He did not. He simply got on with selling Britain
down the river. Likewise, none of the three main parties will worry much about a
low turn-out if their share of a reduced vote holds up tomorrow. They will just
send their placemen back on to the Brussels gravy train and into council
chambers.

What would hurt them much more is an upsurge in support for minor parties and
independent candidates.

So it is to be profoundly hoped that is just what occurs.

When voting in the European elections many voters will wish to register their
disgust not merely over expenses but with Labour railroading the Lisbon Treaty
through Parliament without the promised referendum, an act disgracefully
connived at by the Liberal Democrats. Even the Conservatives have not yet
pledged to renounce this European Constitution if it is in force when they next
form a government.

No such doubt afflicts the United Kingdom Independence Party. UKIP has a clear
platform of leaving the EU and instead negotiating a free trade agreement with
our continental cousins, saving many billions of pounds a year in membership
costs and bringing home sovereignty lost to Brussels.

Led in a straightforward, cheerful and courageous way by Nigel Farage it has
braved many smears from the political class and its media allies. It did well at
the last European elections and deserves to do better still this time.

Another choice available to voters infuriated by the loss of democratic
accountability to Brussels is the Libertas grouping led by Declan Ganley. Mr
Ganley did this nation a great service when he persuaded the Irish people to
vote down the Lisbon Treaty, thereby stalling it for now at least.

Libertas is putting up candidates in nearly every British euro-constituency and
wishes to democratise the EU from within, transferring power from Brussels back
to national legislatures.

For those of a sceptic disposition who baulk at the idea of outright withdrawal
it is an excellent option.

Then there is the Jury Team project of businessman Sir Paul Judge, who is
putting up a slate of independent men and women who have won open primary
selection processes. Never has the need for more such people in politics been so
obvious.

Some will also flirt with voting for the Green Party. But its quasi-socialist
nature and ideological opposition to economic growth disqualify it from serious
consideration by this newspaper.

There is one small party that should be dismissed altogether. A single vote for
the BNP will be one too many.

Behind the sharp-suited, smoothtalking Nick Griffin is an organisation that has
racism at its core. It bans non-whites from membership, contains many Holocaust
deniers and proposes a prohibition on Gurkha veterans settling in Britain
despite their magnificent service to the nation.

Any area that returns BNP councillors on Thursday will be advertising its own
acute shortcomings, scaring away inward investment and taking another twist down
a spiral of economic decline that includes falling house prices and rising
unemployment.

STILL worse is the prospect of the BNP winning a European seat in the
North-west. Britain is known throughout the world as the country that
spearheaded the defeat of fascism in Europe. To become known as a country that
has sent a fascist on to the European political stage would be a source of
national disgrace.

When the governance of Britain is decided at the next general election there
will only be two real choices - Labour or the Conservatives. David Cameron's
party will go into that campaign committed to putting the national finances on a
sound footing, cutting public sector waste and inefficiency, imposing an annual
quota on immigration and greatly extending parental choice in education. All of
these are excellent policies and the Daily Express expects to be able to support
him wholeheartedly.

But after the past few weeks, with its stories of taxpayer-funded Tory moats and
arboretums as well as Labour phantom mortgages, Mr Cameron must expect his party
to take its share of the punishment. He has a year in which to rid the Tories
finally of an arrogant squirearchy that could still cost them dear.

He must present to the electorate next year a serious-minded party capable of
seeing the country through an age of austerity, not one populated by chinless
wonders fixated on plundering tax receipts to finance their own prosperity.

The best result for democracy tomorrow will be an epic defeat for Labour. But it
will also be a victory for democracy if all the major parties are taught the
lesson that arrogance does not pay and that they are here to serve the public,
not the other way round.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COUNTDOWN: The public will punish the main parties tomorrow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Corrections and clarifications

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 344 words


A column wrongly included Herman Daly in a list of great dead economists. He is,
in fact, alive and well and a professor at the University of Maryland (It's a
funny old game, 1 June, page 22).

Yesterday's graphic entitled GM global staff and vehicle sales, page 20, gave
figures that seemed abnormally low for "total North American vehicle
production". To clarify: the figures were for one month - April this year, and
April last year.

On a map of the British Isles in a pre-election graphic (Across Europe, 1 June,
page 2, Elections special 2009), pie charts showing how each party's European
parliament candidates fared should all have been headed "Number of MEPs elected
in 2004" rather than "Number of MEPs now". Where the East Midlands chart showed
two Green MEPs, it should have shown two Ukip MEPs elected. In the south-east
the chart gave the Lib Dems three MEPs when two were elected. The south-west
showed the Greens with two seats which actually belong to Ukip. And an outdated
Plaid Cymru logo was shown.

Yesterday's article on favourite hot-weather haunts mentioned a swimmable
stretch of the Cam between Grantchester and (as an editing change had it)
Newnham College. That should just have been Newnham. (Elaborating on the
article's punt warning to swimmers, a reader adds: "You should beware not only
of punts, but also of weeds, abandoned supermarket trolleys, bicycles and naked
dons.") Another item placed Aberlady bay in Fife, instead of East Lothian, while
Trowbridge was sited in Kent instead of Wiltshire (The great escape, page 13,
G2).

It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant errors as soon as
possible. Please quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the office
of the readers' editor by telephoning +44 (0)20 3353 4736 between 11am and 5pm
UK time Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.

Send mail to The Readers' Editor, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.

Email: reader@guardian.co.uk

The Guardian's editorial code incorporates the editors' code overseen by the
Press Complaints Commission: see www.pcc.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Reply: Letters and emails: Britains battle at the ballot box

BYLINE: Nikki Knewstub

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 81 words


We asked for and were granted postal votes on 16 May. Cornwall council offered
to send them registered post, missing entirely the point that we would not be at
home. Then another spokesperson assured us they would be at the former council
offices, (Cornwall is unitary) so we drove five miles to Liskeard to find that
they have no postal votes and "we've had to use a call centre we are getting so
many calls". So don't blame me when Ukip sweeps the board.

Nikki Knewstub

Liskeard, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

National: Politics in crisis: Local and European elections: Ukip: Party of
mavericks believe they can push Labour into fourth place

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words


"The trouble with mainstream politicians is that we get 'On the one hand this,
on the other hand that'," says Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber.
"I think a little bit of humour and actually saying something can cut through
with the public."

Bloom, one of the 12 MEPs elected for the UK Independence party in 2004, set the
tone for his five years in Europe when he announced on his first day in office:
"I want to deal with women's issues because I just don't think they clean behind
the fridge enough."

In 2007 he complained that talk on the European women's committee always
gravitated towards rape and prostitution, stating on his podcast: "None of them
are in danger of the first or could earn their living from the second."

The outbursts have seen Bloom widely criticised by opponents, but the man who
insists on being known as the MEP for "Yorkshire and north Lincolnshire" is
unrepentant. "I have never changed my mind about anything," said Bloom. Ukip's
other candidates include its deputy leader, David Campbell Bannerman, who
labelled climate campaigners a cult, and William, the 10th Earl of Dartmouth,
the grandson of romantic novelist Barbara Cartland, who once described David
Cameron as a "slave to political correctness". As recently as March Ukip was
flatlining in the polls and being written off as a political force. But since
then the party's fortunes have been transformed and analysts believe it may even
push Labour into fourth place in this week's European elections.

Ukip appears to be cashing in on the anger generated by the MPs' expenses
revelations, even though it is not immune to questions of misusing pub lic
money. Ashley Mote, elected Ukip MEP for south-east England in 2004, was jailed
in 2007 for falsely claiming £65,000 in benefits. Another former Ukip MEP, Tom
Wise, is facing prosecution for alleged false accounting and money laundering
relating to his EU expenses. He denies the charges.

Tony Travers, of the department for government at the London School of
Economics, says many people still see Ukip as a safe way to "bloody the nose" of
the mainstream parties. "As long as that remains the case it would be unwise to
underestimate Ukip's appeal."

The Earl of Dartmouth says the continuing furore over expenses at Westminster is
breaking the stranglehold of the main parties. Tim Worstall, who is standing for
Ukip in the London region, said that despite fluctuating poll results the party
was somewhere between 15% and 20%. "Roughly speaking if we get 13% or 16% it
does not make much difference as to how many MEPs we get. But if we begin to
push 18%-20%, then we really see a big political shake-up."

Ukip claims it is widening its appeal.

"I have been in this country for 18 years and I always belonged to the working
class and have always worked hard," says Deva Kumarsiri, a former postmaster
standing for Ukip in the Midlands. Kumarsiri, 40, moved to the UK from Sri Lanka
and joined Ukip earlier this year after he was forced to leave his job for
refusing to serve customers unless they spoke English.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

David Cameron: Tories would demand return of powers from EU

LENGTH: 803 words

ABSTRACT

Conservative leader also urges Gordon Brown to hold a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty

FULL TEXT

David Cameron said today that a Conservative government would use forthcoming
negotiations about the EU's budget as an opportunity to demand the return of
powers to the UK.

The Tory leader made the comment in an attempt to explain how he would fulfil
his promise to renegotiate the Lisbon treaty if it had been ratified by all EU
members by the time he won an election.

He also urged Gordon Brown to hold a referendum on the treaty in the autumn, on
the same day the Irish hold their second vote on the issue. The Tories are today
publishing a bill that would legislate for such a referendum.

The Tories have said they will hold a referendum on the treaty if it has not
been ratified by all EU member states by the time they get into office. But, if
there is no election until next summer, there is a strong possibility that by
then the treaty will have come into force throughout the EU.

In an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Cameron denied that a Tory
government would find it impossible to act if the treaty had been ratified by
every member of the EU by the time he became prime minister.

Cameron has said repeatedly that, in such circumstances, he would "not let
matters rest". Asked what this meant, he replied: "What I mean by that is that
too much power will have been passed to Brussels from Westminster. I want some
of that power back."

Cameron said that he was still hoping for an early general election and that the
treaty had still not been ratified by Ireland, Poland and the Czech Republic. He
said he did not want to go into details of how he would re-open the treaty
negotiations if the treaty was in force by the time he got to power because that
was still a hypothetical question.

But, when it was put to him that no other member of the EU wants to renegotiate
the treaty ? which took the EU many years to agree ? Cameron said he did not
accept that.

The Tory leader said every treaty was an "effective renegotiation" and that this
would give him a chance to reconsider the Lisbon issues in the future. "If we
had a Conservative government, we would be going into those negotiations with a
list of powers we wanted to have returned to the UK," he said.

Cameron went on: "There's an important negotiation coming up on the future
funding of the EU and I don't want to see us increasing the funding at all, but
it gives us enormous leverage in terms of making sure we get a good deal for
Britain and we build the sort of EU that not just the Conservatives but other
parties in Europe want to see."

Cameron said he would not hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU
because he was not in favour of withdrawal. Asked if he could imagine any
circumstances in which he would support pulling out of the EU, he replied:
"Right now, I can't."

Cameron also defended his decision to withdraw from the EPP-ED grouping of
centre-right parties in the European parliament to form a new group with other
Eurosceptic rightwing parties. This move has been strongly criticised because
some of his potential partner-parties are viewed as extremists.

But Cameron said his two main allies in the new group would be the Polish Law
and Justice party and the Czech ODS party, which were both "parties of
government".

Forming a new group would "bring into European politics a centre-right group of
parties that are committed to reforming Europe and changing Europe", he said.

Cameron spoke as the Times reported that three MEPs accused of abusing their
expenses will be paid hundreds of thousands of pounds as part of a ?20m
retirement package for British MEPs.

Under the payout, 22 British MEPs who are stepping down this week will each
receive up to two years' salary and will share a ?10m index-linked pension pot,
according to the paper.

The Times said 17 were also members of the European parliament's controversial
second pension scheme, which allows MEPs to have an additional pension pot of up
to ?209,000 for every five-year term. An 18th MEP who was a member of the scheme
until 2007 will also receive a payout.

Den Dover, who was expelled from the Conservative party after he claimed around
?500,000 in "unjustified expenses", has an estimated pension of ?235,000 and
will receive a "transitional allowance" of ?59,367.

Former Ukip MEP Ashley Mote, who was jailed for falsely claiming benefits of
more than ?65,000, has a pension worth ?174,968 and will receive a transitional
payment of ?32,382, according to the paper.

As both men are in their 70s, they can begin to draw their final-salary pensions
immediately.

Former Ukip MEP Tom Wise, who was charged with fraud and false accounting in
relation to his expenses, has a pension valued at ?235,000 and will get a
?32,382 transitional payment, the Times said.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Ukip, the party of cheap laughs

LENGTH: 675 words

ABSTRACT

David Cronin: The UK Independence party would rather defy common sense than
present a cogent critique of the problems besetting the EU

FULL TEXT

Tony Benn recently expressed a widespread frustration about how the EU operates.
"I'm a European ? I was born one and I will die one," he told the . "But the
present European Union structure is the most undemocratic you can imagine. Power
is in the hands of people you don't elect and cannot remove and therefore they
don't have to listen to you. That whole structure needs to be changed by an
infusion of democracy."

If the opinion polls are accurate, a lot of people will be  by voting for the UK
Independence Party in this Thursday's election. Superficially, the  appears to
be offering an alternative to Labour and the Conservatives with his vow to work
towards ensuring that Britain's future is determined in Westminster rather than
by "faceless, unelected bureaucrats in Brussels."

In reality, however, the performance of Farage and his party's other MEPs proves
that they are a reactionary bunch who take more delight in defying common sense
than in presenting a cogent critique of the many problems besetting the EU's
institutions. The first thing that should be noted is that the party won 12
seats in the 2004 European election but now only has eight MEPs. Two of the
original dirty dozen have left of their own accord: former party leader Roger
Knapman (who of being more interested in obtaining plush offices than in
defending core Ukip principles, whatever they may be) and Robert Kilroy-Silk
(who left in a fit of pique after he failed to succeed Knapman as leader). Two
others ? Ashley Mote and Tom Wise ? have either been  (Mote) or  (Wise).

With miscreants such as Mote out of the way, Farage has tried to convey the
impression that the party is as smooth and clean as his immaculately pressed
pin-striped suits. Yet he has had only limited success in muzzling the party's
charlatan-in-chief . In his own words, Bloom is a financial trader with "modest
prestige" in the City of London. Spending too long in that male-dominated
environment might help explain why he has felt out of place dealing with gender
equality legislation as a member of the parliament's women's rights committee.
Shortly after being elected he offered this incisive view of the opposite sex:
"I just don't think they clean behind the fridge enough."

Any suggestion that Bloom has subsequently matured was disproved in 2007 when he
by York archbishop John Sentamu that there are racists within the Church of
England. "I would have thought that the fact he was made an archbishop with a
face as black as Newgate's knocker would belie that," said Bloom.

Time and again, Ukip has shown that its only response to Europe's economic
malaise is to peddle policies that would harm workers and the poor. Its
candidates have  and limits on working time and have argued for a far-reaching
deregulation of the economy (ignoring how deregulation in at least one sector
helped land us in our current mess).

One of the few positive observations that can be made about Ukip is that it can
be relied on to provide comic relief whenever a debate is in danger of turning
turgid. During discussions on climate change, its MEPs have tried to sound
authoritative on matters environmental by blaming the phenomenon on the natural
warming up of the sun. Never mind that experts the world over agree that
man-made activities are imperilling our future,  is convinced that this
consensus represents nothing more than "voodoo science".

It is often forgotten that the correct definition of a sceptic is a seeker of
truth. We urgently need genuine Eurosceptics to shake things up in Brussels and
Strasbourg but Ukip doesn't fit that bill. Instead of seeking the truth, the
best it can give us is a few cheap laughs.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Disarray in Downing Street;
Brown struggles to regain his authority after Government hit by spate of
surprise resignations Black day for Brown as three ministers step down

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words


Gordon Brown was struggling to regain his authority last night as a planned
cabinet reshuffle designed to launch a political fightback was wrecked by a
spate of Labour resignations.

On a day of chaos in government circles, Jacqui Smith's aides confirmed she
would stand down as Home Secretary at the reshuffle, expected soon after local
and European elections tomorrow in which Labour fears a meltdown.

Last night, Labour backbenchers told The Independent that the "complete
disarray" in the Government had increased the prospects of an attempt to oust Mr
Brown after this week's elections.

Ms Smith told the Prime Minister at Easter she wanted to quit to protect her
family, soon after becoming the first victim of the leaking of the details of
MPs' expenses claims. She came under fire for listing her sister's London
property as her main home and claiming "second homes" allowances on her family
home in her Redditch constituency, including a claim for two adult films
submitted by her husband.

Ms Smith is not the only MP heading for the departure lounge. Tom Watson, a
Cabinet Office minister and member of the Brown inner circle, surprised Labour
MPs by announcing he would leave the Government.

Beverley Hughes, the Children's minister, and Patricia Hewitt, the former health
secretary, said they would quit Parliament at the general election. So did David
Chaytor, a Labour backbencher who claimed £13,000 in expenses for a mortgage he
had paid off. More than 40 Labour MPs have now disclosed they will stand down,
reflecting the widespread resignation in the party that it is heading for an
inevitable defeat.

Four Labour MPs caught up in the expenses scandal have been formally barred from
standing for the party at the next general election by an internal panel. They
include Ian Gibson, MP for Norwich North, who was said to be "very upset" by the
decision. The others were Mr Chaytor, Margaret Moran and Elliot Morley, who had
all already announced that they would stand down at the next election.

The Home Secretary's pre-emptive strike led to opposition claims that Mr Brown
had a "lame duck" Cabinet. The expenses scandal has put a big question mark over
Alistair Darling's hopes of remaining as Chancellor, after he repaid almost £700
of allowances wrongly claimed for his London flat. Two other cabinet ministers -
Geoff Hoon and Hazel Blears - have repaid money after revelations about their
expenses.

There is deep frustration among Brown allies that yesterday's shambles may
further harm Labour's prospects in tomorrow's elections. If the results turn
into a Labour rout, backbenchers will try to enlist cabinet ministers for a
campaign to force Mr Brown to stand down before the general election.

Last night, senior Labour figures warned that the prospect of a move against Mr
Brown was becoming more likely every day. "There is a growing feeling that we
have nothing to lose," said one former cabinet minister. "It now feels more
likely than last year," when a campaign to oust the Prime Minister fizzled out.

Even if they fail to win cabinet-level support, MPs predict an uncoordinated
outbreak of backbench "disorder" and "chaos" that could bring Mr Brown down. He
is receiving conflicting advice ahead of a reshuffle that could prove critical
to efforts to hold on to his post.

His critics warned he would provoke a civil war if he promotes his long-time
ally Ed Balls to Chancellor. "If he wants to trigger a leadership crisis, that
is the way to do it," one said. Brownites accused Blairites of talking up the
prospects of Mr Balls becoming Chancellor in the hope of heading off the move.
Some close advisers are urging Mr Brown to use the reshuffle to "clear out" some
big names embroiled in the expenses controversy.

"The public want blood," one minister said. But others said he could not allow
the row to dictate the reshuffle. Yesterday, Mr Brown said he would make the
changes that are "right for the country".

Some MPs urged Mr Brown to speed up the reshuffle. But he is due to attend the
D-Day memorial events in Normandy at the weekend, so it is most likely to be
take place next Monday.

The Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru added to the pressure on Mr Brown by
tabling a Commons motion for debate next week calling for an immediate general
election.

William Hague, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said the Government seemed to be in
a state of collapse. "They have lost the authority and unity and confidence to
actually govern the country," he said. But David Cameron admitted that the
expenses scandal was harming the Tories too.

A ComRes poll today on voting intentions for the European elections puts the
Tories on 24 per cent, Labour on 22 per cent, Ukip 17 per cent, the Greens 15
per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 14 per cent. The survey, commissioned by
the Greens, suggests the Tories would lose eight seats in the European
Parliament, Labour two, the Liberal Democrats four and Ukip one, while the
Greens would gain nine seats.

Brown's reshuffle

ON THE UP?

ED MILIBAND

The Climate Change Secretary has nothing to fear from the reshuffle. He is a
trusted friend of Gordon Brown, has relatively few enemies and has emerged
squeaky clean from the expenses row. There is an outside chance that he could be
the next Chancellor.

ALAN JOHNSON

As Gordon Brown's most likely successor, the Health Secretary has to tread
carefully. If he accepts a new job, it could be taken as a sign he has
acknowledged the PM is there for the medium term. He can argue that he needs to
stay to deal with swine flu.

ED BALLS

Balls has always wanted to be Chancellor. Brown would like to promote him,
setting him up to be the next Labour PM. But he has many enemies. What happens
here will show how strong Brown feels his position is.

YVETTE COOPER

The Treasury Chief Secretary will have to move if her husband Ed Balls takes
over at No 11, and even if he does not, she can expect to take charge of a
government department for the first time, not least because Jacqui Smith's exit
makes it necessary to promote a woman.

CAROLINE FLINT

As minister for Europe, Flint holds one of the most important jobs outside the
Cabinet. Her time for cabinet rank has probably come, especially if Hazel Blears
is dropped. Her expenses claims for her London flat have been criticised, but
are not bad enough to be career destroying.

JACK STRAW

The oldest and most experienced cabinet minister. He is not in line for
promotion, but if there is to be a delegation of cabinet ministers to tell Brown
he has to resign, it will not carry much weight without Straw.

JAMES PURNELL

The Work and Pensions Secretary is seen by Blairites as a possible Labour
leader. A promotion would be a good way to placate them. He did not pay capital
gains tax when he sold his London flat but says he would not have been liable
for it even if he had not been an MP.

PETER MANDELSON

Labour MPs are predicting that the Business Secretary will achieve his life's
ambition to be Foreign Secretary this time, but it is unlikely that Brown will
want him travelling the world when there is an election imminent and his
strategic political brain is needed at home.

VINCE CABLE

One wild rumour is that Brown will bring in Cable as his Chancellor, paving the
way for a coalition government if Labour loses the next election. But Brown will
not make the offer and Cable would not accept if he did.

ON THE SLIDE?

DAVID MILIBAND

A year ago the Foreign Secretary looked as if he was about to take over from a
weakened Gordon Brown but, having fluffed his chance, he is now likely to stay
where he is. If the Home Secretary and Chancellor are moved, that is quite
enough change at the top end of the Cabinet.

ALISTAIR DARLING

The Chancellor is one of Gordon Brown's oldest friends who got where he is by
handling difficult briefs without any bad headlines. But that talent deserted
him during the expenses row. Visiting Swindon yesterday he did not sound like a
man whose career is over so maybe another cabinet job awaits.

HAZEL BLEARS

Until recently the Communities Secretary had a promising future as a leading
Blairite moderniser. Then she made fun of Gordon Brown's YouTube appearance and,
worse still, was exposed for having avoided capital gains tax when she sold her
home. Paying back the money is not likely to save her.

By Andy McSmith

Smith pays the price for an 88p bath plug (and two XXX movies)

News, Labour turmoil, page 6

PLUS in Opinion & Debate

This isn't the start of the coup. Just the pre-convulsions

John Rentoul, page 23

Mr Brown's reshuffle begins ahead of time

Leading article, page 24

It's as if the left has a self-destruct button and can't stand being popular

Mark Steel, page 27

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                 2 Star Edition

HARDEST WEEK OF HIS CAREER?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 114 words


TODAY Brown faces Cameron at PM's questions. Tory leader won't be short of ammo
THURSDAY Euro and local elections. All evidence points to a Labour massacre
FRIDAY Labour may have lost control of their four remaining county councils.
First chance for reshuffle SATURDAY Break from domestic turmoil as PM off to
France for D-Day commemorations. While he's away MPs will take soundings on his
leadership SUNDAY Euro election results. Brown's big fear is that Labour comes
4th behind UKIP.

Anything less than 20% of vote will be seen as disaster MONDAY Most likely date
of reshuffle. But Brown could see plans unravel if ministers refuse to be moved.
Stand by for more shock resignations...

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

THE EXTREMIST

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 133 words


THE extremist BNP are thick, as well as nasty, thugs. To use American actors
posing as British workers on a leaflet was deceitful.

To claim Winston Churchill's backing was dishonest when he fought to keep
jackbooted fascists out of Britain.

And leader Nick Griffin was humiliatingly forced to eat his words when he
boasted he'd gatecrash a Buck House garden party.

The one issue that voters of all political colours agree on is the Queen
shouldn't be dragged into politics.

Please don't be conned into voting for this vile, racist, incompetent mob
tomorrow.

Under Europe's PR system a vote for another party counts as a vote against the
BNP. So go out and vote Labour, Lib Dem, Green or even Tory or Ukip.

The British way is Hope not Hate and I want to see Griffin scowling on Sunday
night, not smirking.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Comment - Snouts deep in the EU trough

LENGTH: 597 words


This newspaper has a real commitment to the pensioners' movement and it has
always been one of our biggest priorities.

So it is a little difficult to give any negative information to an organisation
which has more track record than any of us, a proven bunch of decent socialists
with a total commitment to real social change.

But we have to tell you, comrades, that you aren't going to get many members or
supporters from the latest crop of newly fledged pensioners.

Mind you, you probably wouldn't want them anyway, given where they've come from.

This week, the hotly contested European Parliament elections take place. From
July, a whole new crop of supposedly democratic and righteous MEPs will take
their seats - or maybe not.

Their financial package will include a net monthly salary of £5,138, a flat-rate
£256 allowance "for each day that MEPs attend official business as long as they
sign the attendance register," a "general expenditure allowance" of £3,621 a
month and an EU budget-funded pension from age 63 worth 3.5 per cent of annual
salary per year as an MEP.

There certainly won't be many of them struggling to pay the gas bill. But they
are just the low figures on the dodgy EU totem pole gravy train - and they won't
be pensioners for years yet.

Where it really gets smutty is when we get to the 22 MEPs who are standing down
after their term of office has been completed.

They, believe it or not, will be enjoying a pension worth two-thirds of their
salaries - which we would all love to have received - plus an extra top-up
pension worth up to £4,800 a month for life.

And, just to add a bit of spice to the story, most of them paid the extra to get
this juicy top-up from their office allowances, rather than contributing
personally, as they were supposed to.

There are 18 out of the 22 who are standing down who will benefit from this
outrageous bit of bunce.

So it is probably safe to say that they won't be queuing up to join the
pensioners to fight for a pension that improves on the state pittance.

Each of them will be paid up to two years' salary to help them adjust to their
new lives outside the gravy train and they will all share in a £10 million
index-linked pension pot. Can't be bad, can it?

Especially for Den Dover, who was expelled from the Conservative Party after he
claimed around £500,000 in "unjustified expenses," has an estimated pension of
£235,000 and will receive a "transitional allowance" of £59,367.

And it won't hurt former UKIP MEP Ashley Mote, who was jailed for falsely
claiming benefits of more than £65,000, has a pension worth £174,968 and will
receive a transitional payment of £32,382.

Or former UKIP MEP Tom Wise, who was charged with fraud and false accounting in
relation to his expenses, has a pension valued at £235,000 and will get a
£32,382 transitional payment.

So, for all of you who wonder why the No2EU candidates who are standing for
election this week are very dubious about taking up those seats if they are
elected, there's a pretty obvious answer.

You really can't sit in a pool of crap and not get smeared. But you can't ignore
the fact that you're paying for the crap.

So No2EU candidates aren't going to be seen with their hands anywhere near the
till. It's certainly not a reason not to support them - quite the reverse.

And to the pensioners we say keep fighting. Forget the pack of opportunist
money-grubbers who you won't see - you wouldn't want them anyway.

And to MPs, MEPs, their spouses and progeny, there's just one message. Come and
join the real world. It's painful and it's difficult, but at least it's clean.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Denial is opening the door to the extremists;
It's pointless to pretend that the BNP does not have genuine appeal on ordinary
housing estates across the land

BYLINE: Alice Miles

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 947 words


She was, said the lady with the neat hair and the stroppy manner, quite
attracted to the British National Party, actually, because they are "different
... just for the people, that's all; English people".

But she was not going to vote, because she remembered her mother being
stigmatised for belonging to the Communist Party. "I think people would pick you
up: 'Why are you voting? You're a racist.' I'm not a racist."

There is, the BNP candidate told her, a black policeman's association. "And if I
were a policeman, I wouldn't be able to join, because I'm white." It could
hardly have been a less relevant comment in this particular ward in southern
Britain, which is a 97 per cent white British, 90 per cent owner-occupied area
where crime is extremely low; a burglary rate of 2.1 per 1,000 households, for
instance, compared with a national average of 13.8.

Paul Cole - standing for election to West Sussex County Council in Nyetimber, an
area to the west of Bognor Regis - is one of four BNP candidates in and around
the town. He is an odd fellow who, when I spoke to him, was vague about his
professional background (he was alternately a linguist, a political analyst and
a further education lecturer) and at one point suggested I shouldn't use his
name because "there are implications nationwide for me" ("Your name is on the
list of candidates," I reminded him). "The thing that you need to emphasise," he
said, "is that I'm not a politician, I'm just an angry voter." As if to prove
it, he wasn't sure of the BNP's pensions policy, and when I asked whether he
really intended "an end to immigration" with no exceptions at all, replied that
he didn't really.

"Have you heard Gordon Brown ever talk about immigration?" he pressed the lady
with the communist mother. "Is that an issue you ever think about yourself?"
"Yeah, I do," she replied. "There's too many over here ... " And she took a
leaflet from him and promised to read it.

Thus goes the BNP campaign on doorsteps up and down the country.

It's not a dog whistle, it's a trumpet call. And while they may have chosen to
canvass with me on an estate where they expected a sympathetic hearing - it is
known locally as a UKIP stronghold - they really were pushing at open doors. "At
least you're for Britain," I kept hearing as tanned, retired folk stood in
immaculate front gardens, porcelain ducks nestling in gravel paths. "At least
someone's for us ... what's right is right."

What has gone wrong in Bognor? In one ward in the 2007 district council
elections, the BNP gained more votes than Labour. They are standing in four
wards in the council polls tomorrow. Yet according to the 2001 census, the town
has a population which is 95 per cent white British.

As in many other areas of the country, those figures are out of date. An influx
of Poles, Latvians and Lithuanians who do not show up in official figures has
put local services under strain in the past five years. District council
officials say that as a rough estimate, about 5,000 eastern Europeans (out of a
population of 146,000, so hardly an overwhelming number) have settled in the
area since 2004, some 70 per cent of them Poles.

"I was very fortunate," joked one man. "I was in Bognor the other day and I
heard another English person."

Voter anger over MPs' expenses seems to have fused with indignation over
pensions, housing or jobs to ignite into an attack on foreigners. Mr Cole
dripped sympathy and understanding on the doorstep; he knew a plasterer who said
that in order to make money, he had to get into his van at 5am and drive to
London to compete with Poles charging £25 a day; but then the Poles didn't pay
council tax, did they? Votes for UKIP or the BNP in the elections tomorrow may
in part be protest votes against the shenanigans at Westminster, but at heart
they are objections to immigrants at a time of economic stress. In these voters'
opinions, a bunch of charlatans (MPs) is blowing a lifetime of hard work (the
voters') by putting it into the pockets of the Poles (foreigners).

"I hate what's going on," said one man. "Reaping everything what we've paid into
the country ... people can come from Timbuktu."

"I know it sounds terribly racist," said another, "but if I got on a lorry and
put a sheet round me and a turban on my head, I'd be made."

Of perhaps 30 doors we knocked on, half were non-committal or refused to say who
they would support, while 12 professed to be voting for the BNP (although there
was some confusion between them and UKIP). None was voting Conservative, and
only one Labour.

The left-leaning think-tank, the Institute for Public Policy Research, warned in
an essay last week that public anger over MPs' expenses and concerns about the
state of the economy are being exploited by extremist parties such as the BNP.
Peoples' sense of identity is being manipulated by negative nationalism. Yet Mr
Cole barely needed to manipulate these voters; all the inferences, right and
wrong, had already been made. They knew what they thought, they were just a
little wary of expressing it for fear of being branded racist.

These were not skinhead thugs that I met on Monday. We should not stand, fingers
in ears, pretending that such views do not exist on some of the ordinary housing
estates of Britain. Instead, as the Labour MP Jon Cruddas, who has fought the
BNP in his Dagenham constituency, has often argued, mainstream political leaders
need to talk more about race, poverty and migration. Continuing to triangulate
gingerly around the issues is leaving the door open to the extremists.

'At least you're for Britain,' the tanned, retired folk kept saying

Political leaders need to talk more about race, poverty and migration

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

You bet

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 27 words


William Hill is offering odds on who will win the most seats at the European
elections. The UKIP is favourite at 5-4 with Labour at 11-8. For a tie, the odds
are 11-4

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

The Choice for Europe;
The European elections have been dominated by other issues. No party has made a
convincing case for the EU but the Conservative Party is the only viable choice

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 620 words


Tomorrow the election that never happened will take place. The almost complete
absence of any serious debate about European issues is a colossal indictment of
the European Union (EU). The initial purpose of the EU - to bind together
nations that had recently been at war - was exhausted by success. As soon as
politics replaced conflict, the EU began to limp through institutional wrangles,
mostly invented for the sake of having something to do. It created an empire but
failed to find a role.

A serious debate about Europe would address this existential question. But no
such debate is on offer. Neither is there any genuine debate about the poor job
that the European Parliament does in scrutinising the European executive.
Instead, the election is being dominated by the saga of MPs' allowances,
reshuffle rumours, the bidding war to promote constitutional reform and the
increasingly desperate struggle of the Prime Minister to project an aura of
authority.

To the extent that the election has any European content at all, the electorate
is being asked to adjudicate on relatively footling matters such as with which
group of parties the Conservative MEPs decide to sit. Perhaps the only party
that has campaigned on Europe has been the United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP), for whom it is the issue that surpasses all others.

This election ought to be a verdict on the way this country's relationship with
Europe has been handled. Despite the inability of the political class to make a
coherent case for the EU, it is still open to voters to make their assessment on
that basis and it has to be said, that there is no obvious winner.

The Green Party makes a good case on its central issue but its commitment to
disastrous protectionist economics makes it an inappropriate choice even if one
were to declare a plague on all the other houses. The Liberal Democrats have
softened the federalism that was once their distinctive mark. That is a welcome
move but, although they make their case well, their position is well-meaning but
ill-considered; they remain too uncritical of the effect of European legislation
on British life. At the other end of the spectrum, UKIP has a clear position -
to withdraw from the EU - which is not in the British national interest.

Of the two largest parties, Labour ruled itself out by the refusal to redeem its
manifesto promise to hold a referendum on the European Constitution. It is
specious to argue that the Lisbon Treaty is so different from the original
Constitution that the promise is now redundant. The two documents are all but
identical and the pretence that they are different is an unworthy attempt to
smuggle in a treaty comprehensively rejected by the people of Europe. The saga
of the Constitution is a parable of the detachment of the European elite from
the people that needs to be corrected. The failure to grasp this basic point
disqualifies Labour from serious consideration.

So, by a process of elimination, that leaves the Conservative Party. The future
of a viable EU surely lies in concentrating on those issues, such as the
response to climate change and the need to secure energy supplies, on which
co-ordinated work between governments is vital. That means it needs to spend a
lot less time on pointless internal deliberation designed to cement power
centrally, of which the Lisbon Treaty is an example.

The Conservative Party has the only manifesto which contains both these defining
ideas. On that basis it merits support in tomorrow's election. But the bigger
issue is, in fact, whether an increased Conservative presence in Strasbourg can
make any difference in finding a purpose for the European Parliament which, just
at the moment, it palpably lacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

A drubbing for Labour in Europe will leave party faithful clutching at straws

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1031 words


Labour is almost certain to take a hammering in the European elections tomorrow
but may lose only two or three seats because of a new European electoral map.

A range of recent polls have predicted that Labour's share of the vote could
fall to 16 to 20 per cent, possibly leaving the party behind the Liberal
Democrats or even UKIP.

Such a result, to be announced on Sunday, on top of disastrous county council
election results to be declared on Friday, would leave the party grasping for
straws. Labour strategists would doubtless point to the number of MEP seats and
claim that that party had done better than in 2004 when it lost six seats and
polled 22.5 per cent of the vote.

The 2004 election, on the back of the Iraq war and disaffection with Tony Blair,
was Labour's worst election result in Europe since it came to power.

Tony Travers, the local government expert for the London School of Economics,
said yesterday: "Labour will say two things, 'We have not done much worse than
last time, when we were very unpopular as a result of the Iraq war, and the
Conservatives have not done much better than 2004, when they went on to lose the
general election'."

Because only 78 MEP seats are up for grabs - already six fewer than last time
because of changes within the European Union - no party is likely to make huge
gains or losses in their number of seats, as they might in a general election.

If the Conservatives win between 30 and 35 per cent of the vote, they could gain
one or two MEPs after taking into account the EU seat reduction. If Labour gets
20 per cent of the vote, it would probably lose only two or three seats. But if
its share of the vote does plunge to 16 per cent it could lose up to six.

The Liberal Democrats may find it hard to cling to the 12 seats that they
already have, after gaining two last time, and UKIP has a big task to keep its
12 seats after getting a surprising 16 per cent share of the vote in 2004.

UKIP and the Greens appear to have benefited most from the expenses row protest
vote and may pick up an extra two seats each. Although Nick Griffin, the leader
of the BNP, could get the party's first MEP seat in the North West, there are
few signs that it will get many more.

The party polled 4.9 per cent in 2004 and may not do that much better.

"As the smaller parties did so well in 2004, we had thought they would lose both
seats and their share of the vote this time," Mr Travers said. "The fact that
they look set to do as well or even better after the events of the last three
weeks could actually mean that the position of the main parties does not move
very much." Although the expenses row has hijacked the election campaign and
sent canvassers scurrying for cover, its impact on the results is very difficult
to gauge. With a number of resignations yesterday and a messy Cabinet reshuffle
in the offing, the public may be more or less likely to cast their vote
tomorrow.

Labour is set to lose its four remaining county councils and half the 493 county
council seats it holds. It could also disappear entirely in some counties in the
South, such as Surrey, Buckinghamshire and Hampshire and lose its activist base
in the South.

Since 1997 the county council elections have always been held on the same day as
a general election, so no one has really noticed Labour's power base seeping
away. Labour will use anything to gloss over its meltdown in local government.
Leading article, page 2

Election officials inadvertently encouraged people to vote Conservative by
sending out an "idiot's guide" to voting with a cross against the Tory box.

The forms, which were sent to 60,000 residents voting by post in Dorset and
Wiltshire, have sparked a row over political bias before tomorrow's European and
council elections.

Opposition parties fear that the guide could sway the vote and it is possible
that the result could be challenged.

Paul Morris, the returning officer for the South West Region, said: "They [the
council officials] were just trying to make voters aware of what is going on."

The Electoral Commission said that it had been in contact with the local
authorities involved. "The responsibility lies with the returning officers -
they produce and distribute the ballot papers." It is understood that half of
the 60,000 ballot papers have been returned.

The chances of a mix-up are high

The list of parties on European election ballot papers, which in London is 3ft
long, can often confuse voters into crossing the wrong box or spoiling their
paper. With 400 organisations registering with the Electoral Commission,
sometimes with similar names, the chances of mixing them up are high

The Liberal Democrats, for example, could easily be confused with the Liberal
Party, the Libertarian Party and even Libertas UK, while the Labour Party has to
compete with the Socialist Labour Party, the Socialist Party of Great Britain,
the Socialist People's Party and Socialist Unity

As parties are listed in alphabetical order, those nearer the top often have the
better chance of attracting a cross

Conservative Party, without the "the" lies nearer the top and has little direct
competition. But the British National Party could be mixed up with the British
Right Alliance, the British First Party, the British Public Party and British
Voice

How to cast your vote

There are 69 MEPs to be elected in England, Wales and Scotland and they will be
selected using the d'Hondt system of proportional representation

All votes in your electoral region are added up and the first seat is given to
the party with the highest number of votes. The votes for that party are then
divided by the number of seats it has already won in the region plus one (ie the
party has won one seat, so its original votes would be divided by two). The
party which then has the highest number of votes gets the next seat. This
continues until all the seats have been allocated

In Northern Ireland, where three MEPs, will be elected, the Single Transferable
Vote system is used. Voters mark 1, 2 and 3 against the named candidates in
order of preference. The candidate with the least votes is eliminated and their
votes redistributed. This continues until the right number of candidates are
left

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1574 words


STRIKE A BLOW FOR DEMOCRACY: DON'T VOTE FOR ANYONE

ON THURSDAY we get a chance to vote, only not in the election we really want.
Actually, there are two elections -- for the European Parliament and local
councils.

I wouldn't presume to tell you which party to vote for locally, though whoever
promises to empty your dustbins once a week would be a good start.

But when it comes to the Euro election, my initial inclination was to stay at
home. Any vote for the parliament in Brussels is a wasted vote.

Never has the song Neil Innes wrote for the Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band -- No Matter
Who You Vote For, The Government Always Gets In -- had more resonance.

Regardless of the will of the people, the Grand Projet marches on inexorably,
driven on autopilot with no reverse gear, programmed by the unelected,
unaccountable apparatchiks at the EU Commission.

This isn't a proper election, it's a cynical ruse to apply a democratic veneer
to an inherently antidemocratic, totalitarian superstate.

Unless you vote for an independent one-man band, you don't even get to choose an
individual candidate. Euro elections use the corrupt party list system. Buy one
and you could get half-a-dozen free -- whether you like them or not.

There's no serious selection process. Candidates aren't chosen by local
constituency associations, they're hand-picked placemen, often with the most
tenuous links to the vast regional electorate they aspire to represent.

Here's how it would work if we had the same system at Westminster. Say you
wanted to vote Labour because you admired Frank Field and Kate Hoey. Then you
discovered that they were just two names on a list of ten, which also included
Hazel Blears, Tony McNulty and Margaret Moran.

There's no way you could vote for Field and Hoey without voting for the others.
It may well turn out that because of the manner in which the votes are
apportioned -- depending on how high up the list each candidate's name appears
-- you end up electing Blears and McNulty, while Hoey and Field fail to make the
cut.

In any case, whoever gets your vote, their influence in Brussels will range
somewhere on a scale from negligible to non-existent. And don't kid yourself
that voting for UKIP or even the Tories on Thursday will bring us any closer to
a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

That will only happen if the Conservatives win the next General Election and
Call Me Dave doesn't manage to wriggle out of his promise to hold one.

I've voted UKIP in European elections in the past, purely as a statement of
intent and as a protest against the main parties. But I've never seriously
entertained the notion that they'd be able to deliver on their promise to get us
out of this wretched racket.

You can't stop the European juggernaut, you can only get off it. And I'm afraid
that isn't going to happen unless the whole rotten edifice implodes.

Even an overwhelming 'No' vote in a future referendum on Lisbon will result only
in a bit of window-dressing, some tinkering around the margins. No one believes
that in the event of an unsuccessful 're-negotiation' of Britain's membership, a
Tory government would pull us out. And the EU certainly wouldn't expel us --
they need our money and our markets.

Best case is that we end up with some kind of country membership. But then if
Britain is granted associate status, some of the others might start wanting the
same deal. And the Eurocrats would never allow that.

So we're lumbered, whichever way we vote on Thursday. UKIP is fine as a
repository of anti-EU sentiment, but they couldn't be trusted to run a
government, which is why their support at the next General Election will be
minimal.

Of course, the right not to vote, for whatever reason, is an essential part of
what's left of our democracy. Which is why I considered not bothering tripping
along to the church hall on Thursday.

But this election does at least give us a chance to rage against the machine, to
give vent to our contempt for the political classes. The trouble is that if you
vote Tory, Labour or Lib Dem, it only encourages them.

Their spokesmen will all turn up on TV claiming some kind of victory and
explaining glibly why the result is better than they expected.

Frankly, I'm not prepared to vote for any of the main parties until we are
guaranteed they have cleaned up their act.

GORDON Brown won't hold a General Election even if Labour is beaten into last
place on Thursday, behind the Monster Raving Loonies. When it comes to ensuring
his own survival, he has the constitution of a cockroach. And even if his party
summons up the courage to take him out the back and shoot him, they'll want to
give Alan Johnson -- or whoever's turn it is this week -- as long as possible to
bed in.

Dave says he wants a General Election now, but he won't put his money where his
mouth is. This column has already suggested a sure-fire way in which he can try
to shame Brown into going to the country. That's by instructing all Tory MPs to
resign immediately and forcing mass byelections on the same date in September.
It would give the party three months to root out the rogues.

Ninety days is plenty long enough to deselect the crooks and pick new, untainted
candidates. There's no reason why the Lib Dems shouldn't do the same. If Brown
still refused to stand down, the country would demand that the Queen prorogues
Parliament.

As I said, we want an election and this one on Thursday isn't it. But rather
than waste your Euro vote, there is an alternative. If we all abstain in
disgust, they will confuse our anger for apathy.

So let's have a record turnout and, instead of voting for anyone, write 'GENERAL
ELECTION NOW!!' on your ballot paper.

That's not spoiling your ballot, it's exercising your democratic right.

You never know, they might just get the message.

JUST FOR ONCE, GORDON, ANSWER THE DAMN QUESTION

NOT for the first time, I'm left wondering why anyone bothers to interview
Gordon Brown. He is genetically incapable of giving an honest answer to a
straight question and cloaks everything in a bogus morality. Brown sticks to his
script and drones on regardless of what he has been asked. He lies, dissembles,
completely ignores the question, refuses to accept any responsibility for
anything, or tries to claim credit for something which is actually nothing to do
with him.

Half the time he doesn't even get asked the right questions. Both Andy Marr and
Evan Davis had the opportunity to ask him about his own expenses claims, but
flunked it. It would have been a waste of time, obviously, but the interviews
could have gone something like this. . . 'Prime Minister, for the past 12 years
you have lived virtually free-of-charge in a grace-and-favour flat in Downing
Street. Why were you claiming second-home allowance on a property five minutes'
walk from the Palace of Westminster?' 'What people want me to do is get on with
the job . . .' 'Actually, what people want is a General Election, but we'll come
back to that. You spent thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money on that
property, even splitting the cost of a new kitchen over two accounting periods
to claim the maximum available. . .' 'Look, I'm disgusted and that's why we are
setting up a National Committee on Constitutional Renewal. . .' 'Why have you
now put that flat in your wife's name? Is it to avoid Capital Gains Tax when you
come to sell it?' 'Appalled, angry, Presbyterian conscience, moral compass,
Gentlemen's Club...' 'Why have you flipped your second home to your house in
Scotland and renovated that at taxpayers' expense, too?' 'My father was a Church
of Scotland minister. . .' 'Do you regret selling Britain's gold reserves at
car-boot sale prices, now that it's risen to over $950 an ounce?' 'I was brought
up in a family where integrity and telling the truth. . .' 'Then why don't you
just answer the bloody question?' 'This is a global financial crisis, which
began in America. I am getting on with the job...' 'Prime Minister, go away.'

A PLUG FOR CABLE GUY

I'VE never quite understood the cult of Vince Cable, who seems to be lauded as
some kind of genius simply for stating the bleedin' obvious.

But since it was revealed that he charges no secondhome expenses, travels to
work with his constituents on public transport and has rubbished any suggestion
that he could be seconded to this discredited Government, I've revised my
opinion.

Pity he doesn't fancy becoming Speaker.

CHEATS SOMETIMES PROSPER

ONE of the curious aspects of the expenses scandal is how some MPs are being
slaughtered while others escape scot-free.

For instance, Labour backbencher Frank Cook has been slaughtered, rightly, for
charging a 65 Remembrance Day donation to the taxpayer.

Yet expenses baron Ed Balls -- who with his wife Yvette Cooper claims
double-bubble allowances by lying about the location of their main home -- put
two wreaths, costing 633, on his cheat sheet and is being talked up to replace
the late Alistair Darling as Chancellor.

Go figure.

WHAT a glorious weekend. I just wish that for once, gormless weatherbirds and
skin cancer 'professionals' could resist the urge to lecture us all about the
dangers of the sun's rays and ordering us to wear sunscreen the moment it stops
raining.

We're not stupid.

NO, I didn't see Britain's Got Talent, though I'm not surprised the Hairy Angel
has ended up in the Priory. That was a real result for the show's producers.
It's Jade Goody all over again.

If I want to watch a freak show, I'll buy The Elephant Man on DVD.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

Labour has 48 hours to prove it is not a party of the living dead;
Gordon Brown can survive;
as leader, but there might not be anyone left;
to lead, says;
Mary Riddell

BYLINE: Mary Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1099  words


The rain is beating down on Hammersmith Broadway, where Ukip is trying to
maximise its vote for Thursday's European elections. "Meet your candidate,''
cries Dave the canvasser as shoppers shuffle past. You do not have to spend long
with Ukip to realise it is not the Rolls-Royce of political machines. The local
chairman's pay-as-you-go mobile phone has run out of credit, and a top
functionary hands me a business card on which his organisation's name is
misspelt as "UK Independance Party''.

Such glitches are the least of Ukip's problems. Two of its MEPs became enmeshed
in financial scandal soon after they were elected, and the party stands accused
by David Cameron of harbouring "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists''.

While the Ukip members I meet do not resemble their swivel-eyed caricature,
there is something terrifying in the rise of isolationists whose success is, in
large part, the measure of government failure. Though it is by no means clear
that Ukip will beat Labour this week, it is easy to see why it thinks it might.
On the high street, shoppers are furious about expenses. "Ukip will pick up
angry Labour voters,'' one man says, and he may be right.

But voters enraged by greed seem just as anxious about Europe, on which the
Government has said next to nothing. Almost no one, apart from David Miliband,
is explaining why the EU is vital to Britain's prosperity and status in a
multi-polar world. It's left to Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, and Tory
grandees such as Lords Patten and Brittan to spell out the absurdity of Mr
Cameron's move to pull Tory MEPs out of the centre right grouping in the EU
Parliament and to renegotiate the Lisbon Treaty.

Mr Cameron, who will run on the most Eurosceptic ticket of any mainstream leader
since 1973, is dangerously estranged from many in his own party. Gordon Brown,
who should be capitalising on the Tory leader's predicament, instead looks as
isolated as the last cod in the Atlantic as he enters the most dangerous week of
his political life.

Awful ratings, one of which puts Labour at a 20-year nadir of 22 per cent, come
as no surprise at Number 10, whose private polling reflects the plunge.
Hand-wringing over the local and European elections began weeks ago, before the
expenses scandal broke. "It's going to be terrible,'' one of Mr Brown's aides
told me then. The disaster forecast has now been upgraded to "even worse''.

Low turnout, a protest vote and the electoral cycle will all prove "pretty
lethal'', according to a Number 10 insider. If even the PM's closest allies hint
Labour is done for, then it's time to order the coffin and dig the grave. "We'll
be absolutely murdered,'' says a senior Labour Party figure. "The way the
campaign has been fought has been completely dreadful.''

Once again, Mr Brown's survival is in doubt. No leader in recent memory has been
frog-marched so often to the gallows, only to be given a reprieve when no
executioner can be found. While political deaths are always swift, it remains
hard to see how he might be unseated.

There is no obvious challenger, no consensus among the greybeards, no mutiny on
the backbenches and no sign that

any of Mr Brown's young henchmen, such as Douglas Alexander or Ed Miliband, have
any desire to turn against him. Such inaction should be no comfort to Mr Brown,
who is caught in a paradox. He is both saved and condemned by a party too frozen
in despair to supply either a lifeline or a noose.

While Mr Brown has good and bold ideas on constitutional reform and on cleaning
up Parliament, his reflexes are slow or non-existent. Honouring old Blairite
commitments has led him down two wrong turnings - 42-day detention and ID cards
- and now he is about to make a third error by showering peerages on
time-servers.

A reshuffle will not bail him out, even if Ed Balls, who has long been lined up
for the Treasury, replaces a damaged Alistair Darling. But nor should senior
figures dreaming of a Brown-free future imagine that regicide offers magic
answers.

Mr Brown has made some grave tactical errors. In the lead-up to this week's
elections, Labour has focused on likely Tory cutbacks in health and education
instead of exposing that party's looming crisis on Europe. That is like sitting
a GCSE chemistry exam and writing about needlework.

Nor has Mr Brown handled the expenses scandal decisively, as far as voters and
Cabinet colleagues are concerned. "The first rule is: stand up for your
ministers or sack them'', says one senior figure. "And Gordon hasn't obeyed
it.''

Meanwhile, Mr Cameron - whose party has been guilty of some of the most
egregious sins - has escaped relatively unscathed: only 6 per cent of voters
consider him the most damaged by the expenses scandal, against 62 per cent who
think Mr Brown has come off worst. "Cameron has been hideously opportunistic,
but effective,'' says a former Cabinet minister.

None the less, Mr Brown cannot be held wholly responsible for the plight of
Labour; a Mary Celeste of a political party, with an  pounds 11.5 million debt,
few donors and a shrivelling membership. The Cabinet, with a few exceptions, has
seemed selfish, abject and unable to galvanise the voters into the faintest
enthusiasm for Labour or for Europe.

A leader is only as good as his or her party, and Labour, with its remaining
activists unsupported by the centre, has rarely looked so moribund. The idea
that a change of PM is the last, best chance is wrong; but nor can Mr Brown
stumble on without tackling the threat posed in Thursday's elections.

Those who believe in Labour should weep at the prospect of being rivalled by
Ukip, whose candidates include a former Post Office worker boasting, in the
party's official literature, that he refused to serve customers who spoke no
English. It should be horrified that any Labour voter might sleepwalk into the
neo-Nazist clutches of the BNP and distraught that Government disarray offers a
rare chance to the far Right. As a Number 10 insider says: "The risk is that
turn-out is so low, you get a freak result.'' In other words, there is a danger
that the Britain which emerges this week will be shaped by the politics of fear
and the demography of hate.

On Hammersmith Broadway, in the rain, there was not a single red rosette to
counter the puce logos branding Ukip the only show in town. Labour, obsessing
over PR and whether Gordon

will make it through the week, now has 48 hours to show that it is not a party
of the living dead. The chances are that Mr Brown will survive as leader. The
question is whether, at this rate of attrition, he will have a party left to
lead.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Does Labour have the guts to ditch Gordon Brown?;
LEADER

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn Chief political commentator

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 879  words


MUCH of British politics is conducted in an elaborate code that its
practitioners use to shield their real intentions from the voters. When Tony
Blair announced that he would serve a "full third term" but not seek a fourth,
voters may have taken him at his word. Seasoned Westminster watchers knew at
once that he would be lucky to get halfway through it.

But there is no such doubt surrounding the intentions of Gordon Brown. When
asked by Andrew Marr on Sunday if he would stand down in the face of a Cabinet
revolt the Prime Minister did not scoff at the notion of dissent around his top
table. He just bluntly replied: "No."

Yesterday he hammered home the message, telling another interviewer he would not
quit before the next election in any circumstances.

Like Margaret Thatcher he intends to go "on and on and on", even if that means
his party being obliterated at the next election. If Mr Brown's internal critics
wish to remove him from Downing Street they will have to prise his fingers from
the banisters. The big question in British politics this month is whether they
have the gumption to do so.

WITH polls showing Labour now neck and neck with the Lib Dems in the national
standings and UKIP for Thursday's European elections logic suggests they must.
But this is the Labour Party. Its MPs followed Michael Foot to certain disaster
in 1983. They allowed Neil Kinnock a wholly unmerited second crack at Downing
Street in 1992 despite the public having decisively rejected him five years
previously.

While any Tory leader knows he is only ever a couple of bad polls away from a
regicide plot, Labour leaders have often been able to rely on a large lemming
tendency. It is far from certain that there are enough lemmings left in the
Parliamentary Labour Party to see Brown through. By reducing the party to third
place in the polls he has left at least 200 MPs fearing for their jobs.

Ironically the expenses row may have marginally improved his survival prospects
because dozens of sitting Labour MPs have already signed their own political
death warrants after being exposed for excessive claims. They wish to postpone
the moment of their execution for financial reasons. Under Brown they can be
sure of another year of salary and benefits whereas a new leader would be under
huge pressure to hold an early election.

If Brown is to be deposed it will take a significant number of Cabinet members
to threaten resignation in the wake of dreadful European and local election
results. It will also take the emergence of a credible alternative leader.
Foreign Secretary David Miliband fancies his chances but he crashed and burned
when he first put himself forward last year and is damaged by the expenses row,
having sought to make taxpayers foot the bill for a pram among other things.
Health Secretary Alan Johnson is a much more serious threat. His expenses have
been scrupulously modest and he is making his case with far greater subtlety
than Miliband.

Unlike Miliband, Ed Balls or any of the Cabinet wannabes, Johnson has an
identity beyond the derided professional political class. He was born into
poverty, became a postman and rose to the top of the postal workers' union
through a mixture of guile, wit and charm. He has deployed these to good effect
in the Commons. When he was made parliamentary private secretary to the Leftwing
Dawn Primarolo in 1997 he joked it would be "the era of a new Dawn". During his
time as number two to Charles Clarke at education he quipped that they went on a
charm offensive: "I did the charm while Charles was offensive."

He was at it again this weekend, dubbing David Cameron and Nick Clegg the
"self-righteous brothers" for their holierthan-thou posturing over expenses. As
the governin g party Labour is naturally bein g hardest hit by the anti-politics
mood sweeping the country.

Johnson would give it a chance of harnessing some of that sentiment against the
other two main parties.

AN OPTIMISTIC working class hero running against Cameron (Eton, Oxford,
Conservative Research Department) and Clegg (Westminster School, Cambridge,
European Commission Secretariat) would be rather handily positioned.

Senior Tories certainly think so - they dread the prospect o f facing the
amiable Johnson rather than the busted Brown at the next election.

But if the Cabinet wishes to depose Brown it must be ready to act collectively
as soon as this Friday. The Prime Minister will seek to regain control by
conducting a reshuffle even as the local election results are being absorbed.
There will be little point in the likes of Hazel Blears threatening to resign i
f they have already been sacked.

By the time the European results are announced on Sunday evening it may already
be too late for the Cabinet to move.

Those pretenders who still think of themselves as potential leaders have another
reason for coalescing behind Johnson. At 59 he is 15 or 20 years their senior.
Young cardinals vote for experienced popes.

Brown has revealed that he phoned Piers Morgan to check on the welfare of Susan
Boyle over the weekend. Speculation that she phoned Morgan to check on Brown's
welfare has yet to be substantiated. Arguably he is in the greater pickle.

She at least finished second in her contest. He would kill for a result like
that on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STUBBORN: The Prime Minister refuses to resign

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tories open a 22% lead as Labour hits new low

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 450  words


SUPPORT for Labour has plung ed to level pegging with the Liberal Democrats at
just 18 per cent, a poll revealed last night.

The survey put the Tories roaring ahead at 40 per cent. Repeated at a general
election, that would mean a crushing Conservative Commons majority of almost
200.

Labour's support has slumped by 10 per cent in a month in the wake of the
expenses scandal.

Leading Labour figures including Jack Straw and Jacqui Smith are on track to
lose their seats if the figures are repeated at the next election. James Purnell
and Jon Cruddas - tipped as future party leaders - would also be kicked out of
the Commons.

The bombshell figures increase the possibility that Labour could slip to third
or even fourth in this Thursday's European elections.

Last night's Ipsos Mori poll asked voters who they would choose in a Westminster
election.

It found that just a quarter were satisfied with Gordon Brown's performance as
Prime Minister - with seven in 10 saying they are unhappy.

And more than three-quarters said they were dissatisfied with the Government as
a whole.

But support for David Cameron has also slipped as the expenses scandal continues
to wash away respect for all politicians. Thirtyfive per cent are now
dissatisfied with his performance, up from 29 per cent last month.

Public satisfaction with the Government is now as low as during John Major's
administration.

Polls at the weekend found Labour slipping to third behind the UK Independence
Party when voters were asked who they would choose in the Euro election.

Last night's Ipsos Mori poll found support for minor parties at a general
election has doubled in a month to 22 per cent, including seven per cent for the
UK Independence Party, six per cent for the Greens and four per cent for the
BNP.

A surge in support for minor parties in the wake of the expenses scandal was
confirmed in another poll last night. A ComRes survey said four in five voters
agree the three main parties have let Britain down. It found that 30 per cent of
voters would not support any of the three if a general election were to be held
now.

It put the Conservatives on 30 per cent, with Labour trailing on 22 per cent and
the Lib Dems on 18 per cent. The Greens were on eight per cent, UKIP on seven
per cent, the BNP on three per cent, with smaller parties or independents on
nine per cent. Scottish and Welsh nationalists had three per cent combined.

The ComRes poll also found a big increase in backing for proportional
representation, with 69 per cent supporting its introduction and 22 per cent
against.

Mr Cameron's plans for fixedterm parliaments, with the PM losing the right to
decide when to call elections, were backed by 79 per cent of those polled.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Chancellor's rented-out flat is in this south London block
Darling said he would repay GBP 700 after claiming GBP 1,004 for a flat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Throw out bad councils, and vote for Lib Dems in Europe: Don't
use local polls to throw stones at national politicians. But do reward the most
principled pro-EU party we have

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1083 words


It may take more than a truckload of nose pegs to get voters to the polls this
week. But abstention is a dereliction of citizenship: always cast a vote, if
only to cast stones at the most hated. On Thursday those with two votes should
be looking at each carefully in its own light.

First Europe: how extraordinary if Ukip is the chief beneficiary of the current
scandal. Nigel Farage admits legally drawing £2m in EU expenses and employing
his wife, while one of his MEPs was jailed for benefit fraud and another faces
prosecution for laundering money and false accounting on his EU expenses. Ukip
is no repository for clean-them-out sentiment, yet some polls put it second,
pushing Labour into a humiliating third.

There is little difference between Conservative and Ukip votes - both open the
EU exit door. The pro-European Tories came out to warn that David Cameron's
promise to take his party out of the centre-right grouping in the EU parliament
will lead down the Ukip road to total disengagement. A British government inside
a ragbag of Gypsy-bating, gay-bashing outcasts will smear our reputation.
Leaving Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy's mainstream group will make future EU
dealings infinitely harder. Why should other countries grant the endless
compromises and opt-outs Britain has insisted on? Should those exemptions be
refused, it would ignite yet more anti-European virulence.

If Cameron does hold an anti-Lisbon referendum, it will in effect be an
in-or-out referendum - and out it would probably be. This is extreme ideological
policymaking, commercially and diplomatically disastrous, riskier by far than
anything Margaret Thatcher contemplated.

On present polls the combined Conservative and Ukip "out" vote conquers all.
Britain has turned more anti-European after 12 years of a Labour government,
despite Tony Blair promising to put us "at the heart" of Europe - even "leading
in Europe". This rise in Euroscepticism is odd, as there is no onward march of
the sovereignty-sapping federalism of Murdoch, Mail or Telegraph fantasy. On the
contrary, the rest of Europe looks increasingly less eager for further
reductions in national decision-making.

Who is to blame? Murdoch as usual, but also Labour's failure to make the case
for Europe. Intimidated by the sceptic press, Blair and Brown played the bad old
game of drawing spurious "red lines" with the enemy across the Channel before
every Ecofin or other meeting. The trope was always us-against-them, inventing
"threats" to be followed by imaginary "triumphs".

The rest of Europe was remarkably tolerant, giving us opt-out after opt-out -
there was no honour in refusing the agency workers and working-time directives.
Other leaders were perplexed at how a transcendentally powerful Labour party
could be so afraid of its own shadow, and irritated by Blair and Brown's
reluctance to sell the benefit of EU membership. Remember the miserable fate of
the all-party Britain in Europe movement, launched with a fanfare at the Imax
cinema in London by Blair alongside Charles Kennedy - and, with considerable
personal sacrifice, Kenneth Clarke and Michael Heseltine, who were out of tune
with their own party. But nothing happened and Blair let it die. The EU remained
the folk enemy in much Blair-Brown public discourse.

Brown is still at it, resisting European efforts to regulate the financial
markets that caused the crash. It was he who pulled Blair back from joining the
euro, which we may yet bitterly regret. The frustration is that Labour is at
heart deeply pro-European.

But Cameron's euro-extremism should set alarm bells ringing about just how
ideological he is beneath that moderate veneer. Dominating his party through his
success, he has nothing to fear from his swivel-eyed Bill Cash wing. He could
rescind rash promises made in the heat of his leadership election, but plainly
has no wish to. This policy acts as a warning light on what kind of government
Cameron's would be. It is not a quirk, a last trace of the Eurosceptic virus,
but a sign of a state of mind far less pragmatic than Cameron pretends. That
same flashing blue vein pulses in Tory thinktanks and shadow-ministerial
speeches that plan gleefully for coming cuts. Knives glint more in relish than
in sorrow. They use national debt as a fig-leaf for shrink-the-state fundaments.

Unfairly, the Lib Dems look set to do less well than they deserve in the Euro
poll. The most consistently wise party on Europe, they never flirted with Tory
press populism, but that principled stand came at a high price. On the economy
or crime co-operation, "stronger together, poorer apart" is a good Lib Dem
pro-EU slogan. They best deserve the vote of every pro-European on Thursday.

The second vote, for local elections, requires a different set of calculations.
Labour risks a wipe-out, losing its last four county councils. After Thursday,
Labour will probably hold no counties and fewer than a fifth of all councillors.
Swaths of the country will be left without Labour representatives; moribund
parties will be barely more than nameplates. Serves them right, many will say -
but often it doesn't when good councils are haphazardly replaced by bad ones,
due to national, not local, politics.

So it may be goodbye to Labour Derbyshire, top-rated for seven years, with its
free home-helps, free rail passes, school improvements, 40 children's centres -
all with among the lowest council tax increases of the last six years. Tories
promise council tax cuts instead, but what will that do to services?

Meanwhile, Surrey county council deserves the boot on virtually every measure,
but don't hold your breath for voter justice. Ofsted marks this Tory council as
one of the four worst for its treatment of vulnerable children. It has most
children expelled from school and failed inspection on adult education due to
underfunding. Its care services for the elderly are assessed as barely adequate.
But its voters will ignore all that, yet again.

It is bad for local government when councils are voted in or out regardless of
quality, and bad too when virtually all councils are of one colour. It should
take no nose pegs to vote in good councils and throw out bad ones. But local
voters insist on using local votes to throw stones at national parties. So we
look set for Conservative hegemony locally and in Westminster and European
parliaments. To avoid that, vote whichever decent party locally can best hold
the floodgates against a blue wipeout.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Leading article: Local and European elections: Thursday's choice

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 651 words


Labour will do badly this Thursday, in local and European elections, and
deserves to do badly. Can anyone who shares ideals of progress and reform summon
up anything more than sullen tolerance of the party at the moment? The expenses
scandal has hit the Tories deeply too, but a week in which the chancellor (a
decent and busy man) finds himself writing cheques to his own department to
repay accommodation claims cannot be anything other than depressing. The prime
minister made a simple statement yesterday, "I am in the best position to clean
up the political system," he told the BBC. That promise has not been matched by
action. Today the government will set out plans for the constitution. Voters
ought to ask why it has taken so long, and how serious the commitment to change
is.

Anyone with a vote in the English county elections should cast it on local
considerations, not national ones, but the majority of people who only have a
vote for the European parliament must examine the national parties as they
stand. They should remember that the proportional voting system means there will
not be any wasted ballots. People who felt forced to pick Labour at the last
general election, to keep out the Conservatives, can back other parties in the
knowledge that their choice will count.

The important thing is that people do vote. The public is right to rage at the
system but they will not make it better by staying at home. At the European
elections in 2004, turnout rose to 38%, encouraged by systems of postal voting
not being used this time. The more people take part in this contest, the more
legitimate it will be. A large turnout will steer the nation's political future;
a small one will give succour to extremists on the right, who will need to find
fewer votes to get their candidates elected.

This paper has often put the case for backing Labour in elections while also
encouraging Liberal Democrat support. The first thing to say this time is that
there is certainly no case for switching to the Conservatives. David Cameron may
have changed his party, but not always for the better - its European policy is
the most sceptical in its history. A large Conservative contingent in the
European parliament would encourage extreme British hostility to the EU. Mr
Cameron, who once attacked the UK Independence party as a movement of
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists", should consider how his own plans to
form a new sceptical group with dubious allies appears to others.

The case for supporting the Liberal Democrats is now very strong. Anyone who
believes Britain should be an engaged member of the European Union - who does
not believe scare stories about the Lisbon treaty and who wants to back a party
that campaigns on this - should vote Lib Dem. So should anyone who cares about
constitutional renewal. Nick Clegg's party has ancestral roots in the battle to
establish democracy, and its radical ideas stand in uplifting contrast to
Labour's still too cautious agenda. The higher the Lib Dem vote, the more
progressive plans for political renewal will be shown to have popular backing.
People should remember, too, that on two other great crises - the debt-driven
collapse of high finance and climate change - the Lib Dems led the way.

A PR election means people can back more than one party, and many progressives
will cheer if the Greens do well. They deserve support, although their policies
are largely unreported, and include opposition to the new EU treaty. It is hard
to find the same enthusiasm for Labour's campaign. Indeed, it is hard to tell
what Labour stands for at all in this contest, except the repeated claim on its
website that a Conservative government would be worse. That evades the
progressive issues of the moment, and also the point of a European election. The
party has forgotten how to be positive. Without an agenda for the future, it
will not win on the past.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2009 Thursday



CORRECTION: *Referring to the European parliament elections in Britain, a leader
comment was wrong in saying that a proportional-representation voting system
"means people can back more than one party". Not so, for most of Britain. The
exception is Northern Ireland, which uses the single transferable vote
(Thursday's choice, 2 June, page 28).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

Response Greens offer a serious alternative to the busted political system: Our
positive vision of the future has struck a chord with disillusioned voters, says
Caroline Lucas

BYLINE: Caroline Lucas

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 570 words


Why would John Harris write of the Green party in terms of "ascetic idealism"
(The Fundi-Realo split, 28 May)? I would have thought tackling climate change
was a pretty pragmatic thing to do, given that it poses probably the single
biggest threat to our economy in the coming century.

I don't see much asceticism in the Green party's proposed means of cutting
emissions, such as massively improving public transport, slashing rail fares,
insulating people's homes, reviving Britain's manufacturing sector. Our proposed
400,000 training places in sunrise industries are focused more on things like
fitting solar panels and maintaining wind turbines; "raffia weaving" is not on
the curriculum.

But at least Mr Harris recognises that the Green party is way ahead of the other
parties when it comes to "such Westminster taboos as a living wage and
thoroughgoing reform of the banks". And if it's idealistic to believe in social
and economic justice, then the Greens must plead guilty to that.

And, yes, we do offer an alternative to what he rightly calls the "busted
political system." The Greens have a comprehensive package for revitalising
British democracy; unlike David Cameron, whose proposed "reforms" involve
maintaining an archaic two-party system that virtually guarantees we always get
a government most people didn't vote for, but this time with fewer MPs.

As for his criticism of the "threadbare economic credo" of the big three parties
- Greens agree with Mr Harris completely. While the bigger parties are still
wedded to outmoded economic ideas, the Greens have a raft of policies for making
prosperity sustainable, not dependent on endless economic growth.

So I hope Mr Harris will be encouraged by the Green party's progress in the
opinion polls. Two weeks ago a Guardian/ICM poll showed the Greens up from 6%
last time to 9% this time. Ukip/ComRes and Telegraph/ICM both put the Greens on
11%. A GP/YouGov poll found that 34% would either definitely vote Green in the
European elections or would at least think about it, and a GP/ComRes poll to be
published tomorrow puts the Greens on 15%, ahead of the LibDems. And rather less
than this would win seats for Greens in most English regions.

Of course the BBC is speculating almost daily that the anti-sleaze protest vote
may go to the BNP (currently on 4% according to Ukip/ComRes, and 1% according to
Guardian/ICM). But I'm sure disillusioned voters would rather vote for a million
new jobs than vote to blame everything on immigrants.

But maybe this is not all protest vote. After all, the Greens are the only party
in this campaign offering a positive vision for the future - something so many
people are looking for. Feedback from the doorstep suggests the Green party's
manifesto for a million jobs, and for tackling the recession and the climate
crisis at the same time, has struck a chord with a lot of voters.

Caroline Lucas is leader of the Green party and a Green MEP

carolinelucas@greenmeps.org.uk

The Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an
opportunity to reply. If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a
letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly,

please email response@guardian.co.uk

or write to Response, The Guardian,

Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. We cannot guarantee to publish all
responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

National: Politics in crisis: Five scenarios: From self-sacrifice to backbench
revolution

BYLINE: Tom Clark

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 874 words


1 Gordon Brown falls on his sword

Whatever else is said against Gordon Brown, no one doubts he is a committed
party man, dedicated to his own tribe and to keeping out the Tories. This raises
the question of whether he would go voluntarily if he came to believe he was
harming the cause he has dedicated his life to. On Friday he could find Labour
has been wiped out in Thursday's elections for the English shires - reduced to a
rump of fewer than 100 councillors, no longer in control of a single county.
What happens if he gets through the weekend, only to discover on Monday that he
has led his party to a second - even more humiliating - defeat in the European
elections (which are not counted until Sunday night)? Dropping behind the Lib
Dems, and even potentially Ukip, would certainly hurt. Dropping into third place
in Scotland, behind the SNP and the Conservatives, might be an even more
personal blow which just might persuade him that he owed it to Labour to step
aside. Don't bank on it though.

Tarot rating 1/5

2 Blears wields the knife

She's taunted him for going on YouTube, and he's publicly branded her behaviour
as "totally unacceptable", so there can no longer be any pretence that there is
any love lost between Gordon Brown and Hazel Blears. She is now virtually
certain to be on the way out. In these circumstances she might fancy doing what
Geoffrey Howe did for Margaret Thatcher - dragging the boss down by making a
pointed resignation herself. Where Howe spoke of the captain breaking the bats,
she might talk of the leader sporting a weird grin while the rest of the party
is in tears.

Blears cannot credibly stand - she came last in a field of six for Labour's
deputy leadership. But she may hope to persuade a disenchanted big-hitter on the
backbenches - say Alan Milburn or Charles Clarke - to start gathering the 70
MPs' signatures needed for their own nomination.

Such names would end up being stalking horses - their aim being to attract
sufficient support to attract more plausible runners and riders from inside the
cabinet.

Tarot rating 2/5

3 The men in grey suits

Until the 1960s, the boot was administered to Conservative prime ministers by
the "men in grey suits", pillars of the party establishment who were understood
to have enough authority to declare the game was up.

In today's Labour party, Jack Straw, the justice secretary, and Geoff Hoon, the
transport secretary, are the men most often mooted for this role. Even without a
leadership challenge from outside, ministerial mutiny would soon prove fatal if
it was on a sufficient scale. Would-be rebels may worry about a calamitous
period of leaderless drift, although their resolve might be steeled by the small
print of the party's rulebook. The party machine keeps this under wraps, but the
latest version we can lay our hands on states that when Labour is in government
the cabinet can "appoint one of its own members to serve as party leader until a
ballot . . . can be carried out".

David Miliband, Alan Johnson or Harriet Harman could seize the reins, and then
face a leadership contest several months later - perhaps even after a general
election. This surely makes a coup less terrifying for Labour, and so also more
likely.

Tarot rating 3/5

4 A revolt in the ranks

Labour's rulebook does not formally give MPs the power to unseat a prime
minister, only to nominate a rival. As with cabinet mutiny though, revolt in the
ranks would soon do the trick if it were on a sufficient scale - as it certainly
would be if the number of rebels approached half the total number on the
backbenches. The crucial issue for them is likely to be Labour's national vote
share in the European elections. If it drops significantly - say three or four
points - below 20%, then the parliamentary party may panic, reasoning that it
was no doing worse than John Major's Conservatives ever did. Back in 1997 the
Tories lost half their seats, and if Labour MPs start to believe that more than
half of them are also destined for the abyss under Brown, a motion of no
confidence could soon snowball.

Tarot rating 2/5

5 Brown sticks it out

The prime minister is no longer in any sense a star of his party, but he still
commands a measure of grudging respect - both for his dogged efforts over the
years to tackle poverty, and for his technically deft response to the financial
crisis when it struck back in the autumn. Brown's best hope now is that this
residual loyalty - reinforced, ideally, by a slightly less dreadful result in
the European and local polls than the doomsayers are predicting - will be
sufficient to carry him through. He can also argue to his colleagues that Labour
would look unforgivably self-absorbed if it put all its energies into a putsch,
instead of taking on the twin political and financial crises. Amid some talk of
economic green shoots, MPs and ministers might just be persuaded to stick with
him and hope to claim the credit for better times when - and if - they arrive.
Most heads of steam at Westminster come to little in the end. But unless Brown
can start to show some command over the expenses fiasco - the biggest political
crisis in many years - you would not want to bet too much money on the
leadership muddling through this time.

Tarot rating 3/5

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday

National: Politics in crisis: Seven days of torture that will sink - or save -
Brown's premiership: Chance to set out national plan after Thursday's polls:
Constitution and cabinet reshuffle are priorities

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 990 words


Gordon Brown's aides believe he needs to endure only one more week of torture
over his leadership before the Labour party and the media realise he is staying
until the election, and he can then start to be judged fairly alongside David
Cameron. But Brown also knows the next few days could be the most perilous for
his premiership since he took office in May 2007.

He needs to seize the initiative quickly by resolving sharp differences of view
within the cabinet on a full programme of constitutional reform.

He needs to navigate a fraught reshuffle, probably on Friday, that could see
changes to the chancellorship and the Home Office, two of three great offices of
state.

And he will have to manage a tense party as it goes through a drawn-out 72 hours
of escalating panic in the face of crushing reverses in the county council
elections on Thursday night and throughout Friday. That panic will reach a
crescendo on Sunday night as the European election results trickle through, and
Labour faces the prospect of coming fourth behind not just the Conservatives and
the Liberal Democrats, but even Ukip.

As one minister said yesterday: "The actual level of the Labour vote will make a
massive categorical difference. It depends if it is 15%, 25% and 35%. The actual
level makes a world of difference to Gordon and the party's mood."

All the while, Brown will have to show a steadier hand in response to the daily
drip of allegations coming out of the Daily Telegraph. He will not want a repeat
of yesterday, when the chancellor, Alistair Darling, and Brown both put out
statements insisting the Telegraph's latest allegations were wrong, only for the
denial to be retracted within two hours.

But the prime minister reckons if he can chart these perilous waters intact, he
will be in the clear and can set out what he describes as a national plan for
Britain.

On expenses and the constitution, the cabinet will meet today to discuss a paper
that offers a twin-track strategy. Harriet Harman, leader of the house, and Jack
Straw, the justice secretary, will propose reforms to strengthen the role of
backbenchers in relation to the executive, both through changes to parliament
and through a constitutional renewal bill. It will cover the royal prerogative,
war-making powers, the attorney general and a new code of conduct for MPs.

There will also be proposals to elect select committee chairs and remove the
executive veto over private members' bills, and new powers for backbenchers to
put issues to the vote in the Commons. It is likely that a draft House of Lords
reform bill will also be published.

Plans are still being discussed for a citizens' summit, a constitutional
convention, a panel of outside experts who would look at electoral reform, a
bill of rights, and a written constitution.

Brown can probably resolve the differences in the cabinet over constitutional
reform, even if there is frustration at the slowness of the government reaction.

The greater problem is the imminent reshuffle. But as one cabinet aide admitted
yesterday: "Normally reshuffles are displays of prime ministerial power and
patronage, but this could be the opposite. Some ministers could walk out or
resign, and then the whole thing unravels."

The betting inside cabinet circles is that the reshuffle will take place on
Friday or Saturday between the close of polls and the European election rout.
Brown at that point will be on the brink of a disaster, but its full scale will
not be known, thus destabilising any cabinet members thinking of mounting a
coup.

Similarly, those on the backbenches wanting to oust Brown - the most likely
course of events - will probably have to raise the standard of rebellion after
the polls close on Thursday night, but will not know if the voters have provided
them with the ammunition they need. The rebels will have to build momentum over
the coming weekend - and all in the face of a display of "prime ministerial
power" over his cabinet colleagues.

But that depends on the reshuffle going smoothly.

Some changes will be easy enough. Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, looks
politically broken and no longer has the stomach to stay in the cabinet after
her husband took the hit for the purchase of pornographic videos on expenses.
She is probably reconciled to losing her marginal seat. Similarly, Geoff Hoon,
the transport secretary, may fear he is expendable.

But axing Hazel Blears, the feisty communities secretary, would be more
difficult. She feels aggrieved that she was singled out by Brown for behaving
unacceptably over the designation of her second homes when she felt other
cabinet ministers had acted similarly. If sacked, she could be a difficult
backbench voice.

Even more, Brown is in a dilemma over Darling. He has been a loyal ally for a
generation, and taken many hits on behalf of Brown over the last year. But there
is dissatisfaction inside No 10 at the way in which Darling fails to attack the
Tories convincingly on the economy. Ed Balls, the children's secretary, would be
much more aggressive. If Balls returns to the Treasury, Brown would have the
figure he most trusts alongside him in the vital 12 months before the election .

The counter-argument is that if Brown wants to fight the next election on the
basis that the government steered the economy through the recession, someone
will have to explain why it was necessary to remove the chancellor midway
through. Equally, Brown will have to explain why Balls, Brown's chief economic
adviser at the Treasury during the development of the credit bubble, is the man
to take Britain back to economic growth.

At the moment, the chances of Brown surviving look strong. There is an inertia
on the backbenches, and a belief bordering on faith that Brown has hit rock
bottom, and will again show his extraordinary capacity to survive adversity. But
it is going to be a week that will test Brown like never before.

Polly Toynbee, page 27 >=

Leader comment, page 28 >=

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron pays the price of expenses scandal;
Independent poll finds huge surge in support for fringe parties Public backs new
voting system to revive democracy

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words


The scandal over MPs' expenses has led to a dramatic drop in support for the
Conservatives as voters have turned their backs on all three main parties, the
latest ComRes survey for The Independent has found. Remarkably, the poll puts
the "other parties" on 30 per cent - neck and neck with the Tories. The Tories'
rating is 15 points down on the last ComRes survey for this newspaper a month
ago, before the controversy erupted. It is at its lowest level in any poll since
April 2006 when David Cameron was engulfed in a row over his party's policy on
grammar schools.

If a general election were held now, Labour would win 22 per cent of the votes
and the Liberal Democrats 18 per cent, the poll found. That would leave Mr
Cameron 46 seats short of an overall majority. The poll suggests that, while
Labour has hit rock bottom, the expenses controversy is now dragging down the
Tories too. Although Mr Cameron won praise for his response when the scandal
broke, there has since been a stream of revelations about how Tory MPs have
milked the system.

Labour has dropped four points in the past month, while the Liberal Democrats
are up one point and the other parties are up by 18 points.

The findings will worry the Tories ahead of Thursday's local and European
elections. There are signs that the controversy on expenses has alienated older
people, those normally most likely to vote. Tory support among those aged 65 and
over has dropped from 49 to 28 per cent in the past month and, unusually, the
party's highest level of support is now among 18 to 24-year-olds. The new poll
puts the Greens on 8 per cent, Ukip on 7 per cent, the BNP 3 per cent, the
Scottish National Party 2 per cent, Plaid Cymru 1 per cent and other smaller
parties or independents 9 per cent.

It suggests the voters' message in Thursday's local and European elections will
be to say "a plague on all your houses" to the three main parties. According to
ComRes, 80 per cent of people agree that "the Westminster parties" have let the
country down, while only 18 per cent disagree.

The poll raises hopes for the Greens and Ukip of a strong showing in Thursday's
elections to the European Parliament. It points to a Labour rout that could lead
to demands from Labour MPs that Gordon Brown stand down before the general
election.

Last night the Prime Minister faced a dilemma over whether to keep Alistair
Darling as his Chancellor when he reshuffles his Cabinet - possibly this Friday,
when the council results will emerge, and before the European results are
announced on Sunday. Mr Darling paid back £668 after he was accused of using his
second homes allowance to claim the service charges on his London flat while he
was not living there. He apologised unreservedly.

The ComRes survey found strong public support for some of the ideas highlighted
by The Independent's Campaign for Democracy. Some 69 per cent of people support
the introduction of proportional representation (PR), with 22 per cent opposed
to it. Although the Tories oppose electoral reform, 63 per cent of people who
support the party back PR, as well as 67 per cent of Labour supporters and 78
per cent of Liberal Democrat supporters.

Some 79 per cent back fixed-term parliaments, with 18 per cent against. There is
strong support for Mr Cameron's plan for a reduction in the number of MPs, with
73 per cent in favour and 22 per cent against. This proposal is endorsed by 77
per cent of Tory supporters, 62 per cent of those intending to vote Labour and
59 per cent of those who say they will vote Liberal Democrat.

The anger over the behaviour of MPs is spread across the political spectrum.
Some 89 per cent of Tory supporters agree that the main parties have let the
country down - a view shared by 67 per cent of Liberal Democrat supporters and
59 per cent of those intending to vote Labour.

Four out of five (79 per cent) people who voted Tory in 2005 would back the
party in a general election now, compared with only 54 per cent of those who
voted for Labour last time.

* ComRes telephoned 1,005 GB adults between 29 and 31 May 2009. Data were
weighted by past vote recall. ComRes is a member of the British Polling Council
and abides by its rules. Full tables at www.comres.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

18% LABOUR'S POLL IS WORST EVER;
Britain's future

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words


GORDON Brown was reeling yesterday after a survey put Labour's poll rating at 18
per cent - the lowest for a sitting government in history.

His party plunged to the same level as the Lib Dems, 22 points behind the
Tories.

David Cameron is on course to notch up a staggering 192 seat Commons majority.
Labour's rating tumbled ten per cent in the last month, but the Tories lost just
one point.

The Ipsos MORI poll comes three days before crunch local and European elections
- the last real test of public opinion before a general election.

Labour are on course to come FOURTH in elections for MEPs with a 20 per cent
share of the vote - or lower.

And the PM is likely to see his 500-strong army of county councillors whittled
down to as few as 50 or 60.

Last night, Mr Cameron repeated his call for a snap election as a "cleansing
process" after the expenses scandal. He said: "We have to let the public be
judge and jury."

Meanwhile, a ComRes poll found nearly a third of people did not plan to vote for
ANY of the three main parties.

Support for "others" was 30 per cent, up 18 per cent.

BROWN'S WEEK OF DESTINY

TODAY

THE PM holds his last Cabinet meeting with the current line-up.

He must reinforce discipline on his top team - even though some know they are
for the chop.

WEDNESDAY

HE faces David Cameron at the despatch box for weekly Prime Minister's Questions
session.

Mr Brown can count on having to deal with a grilling about Chancellor Alistair
Darling's future.

THURSDAY

EUROPEAN and county council elections.

Voters go to the polls in 34 councils in England and in all parts of the UK for
the European Parliament.

UKIP are likely to do well in Europe and BNP leader Nick Griffin could become an
MEP in the North West.

FRIDAY

THE results of county council elections will emerge around noon.

Labour are braced for a bloodbath and could lose control of all their remaining
councils to the Tories.

The PM is expecting to lose a minimum of 250 of his 500 councillors but the cull
could be far worse.

Some say it could leave him with just 50 or 60 councillors anywhere in England.

SATURDAY

WORRIED Labour MPs will take soundings in constituencies about their voters'
mood.

They will talk to Cabinet ministers, including those earmarked for the chop,
about Brown's future.

SUNDAY

RESULTS of European elections at 9pm.

Labour could come FOURTH on less than 20 per cent of vote.

This would be a disaster for the PM and spark immediate talk of a leadership
crisis.

TUESDAY

MR Brown will almost certainly begin a Cabinet reshuffle.

He will try to get headlines by axing big guns like Hazel Blears and Jacqui
Smith. Alistair Darling's future is bleak.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hard Labour ... a pensive Mr Brown visiting a school yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Shamed MEPs take share of £20m 'farewell' payout;
£205,000 for former UKIP member convicted of fraud Shamed MEPs given payouts

BYLINE: David Brown; Fran Yeoman; David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 580 words


Three politicians accused of misusing public money will receive hundreds of
thousands of pounds in pensions and benefits as part of a £20 million payoff for
British MEPs who retire this week.

Twenty-two British MEPs - more than a quarter of the total - are stepping down.
Each will be paid up to two years' salary to help them to adjust to their new
lives and they will share a £10 million index-linked pension pot.

Seventeen are also members of the European Parliament's lucrative and
controversial second pension scheme, which can provide an additional pen-siopot
of £209,000 for every fiveyear term served. An eighteenth MEP was a member of
the scheme until 2007 and will receive some payment. 6 Den Dover, who was
expelled from the Conservative Party for gross misconduct after claiming
£500,000 in "unjustified expenses", has a pension valued at £235,000 and will
receive a "transitional allowance" of £59,367. 6 Ashley Mote, the former UKIP
MEP who was jailed for benefit fraud, has a pension worth £174,968 and will
receive a transitional payment of £32,382. Both men are in their seventies and
can draw the final-salary pensions immediately.

6 Tom Wise, the former UKIP MEP who faces trial for fraud and moneylaundering
related to his expenses, has a pension valued at £235,000 and will get a £32,382
transitional payment.

The first £30,000 of the transitional allowance is tax-free. All three will also
receive up to £55,000 to close their offices and lay off staff and are members
of the second pension scheme.

MEPs who lose their seats this week will be entitled to the same benefits.
Campaigners demanded an end to the practice of giving "golden parachutes to
public servants. Mats Persson, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "It is
scandalous that MEPs are receiving this level of pay-offs. If you go into public
office you should not be there for making money." The pension system is being
overhauled after this election, but all existing MEPs receive a primary pension
paid for by their home country.

Caroline Jackson, who is standing down after 25 years, has a pension pot worth
almost £1 million. This equates to nearly £35,000 a year, according to the
financial services company Hargreaves Lansdown. She will also receive the
maximum transitional allowance of £129,528. Retired MEPs usually receive their
first pension from the age of 65, but those over 60 with more than 20 years'
service can begin claiming immediately. All MEPs can also take a quarter of
their pension value as a tax-free lump sum. The controversial second pension
scheme allows MEPs to have an additional pension pot of up to £209,000 per
five-year term, which they can begin drawing on when they reach 63.

MEPs contribute one third, which is deducted from their office expenses, with
the other two thirds coming from the Parliament. Members are supposed to
reimburse their office allowances, but Mr Persson said that many MEPs had
refused to prove that they had done so. Caroline Lucas, the Green Party leader
and MEP for South East England, said: "Jean Lambert [the Green MEP for London]
and I believe that the second pension scheme for MEPs is completely
inappropriate and an abuse of public finances.

" Laith Khalaf, a pensions analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: "Taxpayers are
charged billions of pounds a year for public sector pensions while their own
retirement savings dwindle. They are likely to take a dim view of their taxes
being used to fund luxury pensions for well-off politicians."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

THE PETER MCKAY COLUMN

LENGTH: 1789 words


IS GORDON TAKING US FOR FOOLS?

WHEN in trouble, Gordon Brown always likes to remind us that he's a son of the
manse. He said yesterday the MPs' expenses scandal 'offends my Presbyterian
conscience. . . I was brought up in a home where integrity mattered.'

It's outrageous for Brown to suggest he didn't know what was going on and to try
to save his skin by vowing to clean up Westminster. He must take us for fools.

A fellow guest on Andrew Marr's BBC TV show -- Jerry Springer, the American
entertainer -- wondered why we're just finding out about MPs' expenses. We
haven't just found out. It's been known for years. What we've finally got is the
grubby detail.

Yesterday, Brown said it was time Westminster's 'gentleman's club' and
'19th-century' practices were swept aside. He proposed 'a new constitutional
settlement'.

Every institution in receipt of public money would have to conform with strict
new standards about expenses -- 'including, I suspect, the BBC,' he told
corporation employee Marr ominously.

He'd have us believe he has always wanted to reform Westminster. He even took
credit for the Freedom of Information Act, which his Government sought to
undermine by removing MPs' expenses from its provisions -- or, 'redacting' them
so thoroughly that we'd have difficulty identifying the Parliamentarians
concerned (or the properties being so lavishly refurbished).

'I feel I have arranged my affairs personally with the utmost integrity,' said
the Prime Minister. He seems incapable of understanding that it's better if
others say integrity matters to him or that he's behaved with the utmost
integrity. Saying it on his own behalf makes him sound like a crook.

It's astonishing the way he ducks and weaves. First he says he's angry,
surprised and shocked by what has been going on and is determined to 'clean it
up, cut it out, open it up for good'.

Then, asked why he doesn't sack shamed ministers -- even Hazel Blears, whose
actions he'd said were 'totally unacceptable' -- he says there must be 'due
process'. He must wait for the Kelly report.

HE ALWAYS comes back to himself, and his integrity -- 'I did not come into
politics to allow this to develop, where MPs ran away with money they did not
deserve.' But he's spent a dozen years in power watching it get worse.

Marr asked about a report saying 50 Labour MPs were trying to line up peerages
for themselves before the coming electoral massacre. Instead of denying it,
Brown said he didn't ' recognise the story'.

How about the friends/advisers/party donors he might send to the Lords? Brown
pretended to misunderstand this one, saying he had no intention of seeking a
peerage himself.

Brown's line on not calling an election is that he has a duty to clean up
Westminster first. Before the MPs' expenses row, he said he had to get the
economy back on track first.

It's simple: he'd be slaughtered. But if he waits 12 months from now, something
might turn up.

What if Cabinet ministers came to him and said the party would have more of a
chance if he stood down -- would he do so? 'No, I'm dealing with the economy,
with the issues. ..' They might need a pest control firm to get him out of No10,
whatever the circumstances.

Why does he put himself through it? According to the latest polls,
Brownled-Labour might be beaten by UKIP in the Euro elections. In the local
elections, they might come third behind the Liberal Democrats.

Other than those with a personal or professional interest in seeing him survive,
it's hard to find anyone who supports Gordon Brown.

As a son of the manse with a Presbyterian conscience, Brown knows he's always
done the right thing. Picked out at 16 for accelerated entry into university,
groomed for power by Labour before being anointed (rather than elected) its
leader, how could he fail?

--

OFF YOUR HIGH HORSE, RINGO

THERE'S a po-faced TV ad for some financial institution promising to treat us
all as human beings (as if!) which features, among others, the former Beatle
Ringo Starr. While other participants say they don't want to be treated as
numbers, or considered stupid, our hero is seen being greeted at the airport by
a chauffeur carrying a sign saying 'Ringo'. Mournfully, the famous drummer says:
'Don't call me by my stage name.' For the record, he's Richard Starkey MBE and
he was born on July 7, 1940. If being called Ringo's the worst of his problems
-- worth whingeing about on TV -- he's a lucky man.

--

THE backlash from MPs on the expenses story is on its way. Politicians say the
journalists who write about them are guilty of comparable excesses. It isn't
true. Very few journalists enjoy second home allowances. In any case it isn't
public money. Except in one case -- the BBC. Gordon Brown suggested yesterday
that -- as a public institution -- the Corporation might not escape scrutiny
under his 'new constitutional settlement'. I heard of one household-name BBC TV
star who sent a black cab to her home to make sure she'd turned off the garden
hose.

--

CRONIES WAITING FOR THEIR UNDESERVED TITLES

SPEAKING at the Hay Festival, the playwright Alan Bennett says he turned down a
knighthood because 'it would be like wearing a suit every day of your life'.
But, he added: 'I always like to look at the lists when they come out, and see
the people who've succumbed.' Why do some people succumb? Obviously because it
makes them feel more important and treasured. It's a rest-of-life reminder of
their eminence, and good connections.

But our honours system is now so despised you wonder why anyone accepts one.
Huge efforts have been made to persuade us that the Establishment is more open
than ever to those who perform genuine acts of goodness towards their fellow
citizens. We know in our hearts, though, that resting on the back of well-earned
OBEs, MBEs and CBEs is the usual raft of donors, sycophants and oilers
collecting peerages and knighthoods. Brown was at his most shifty when asked
yesterday about the alleged gang of cronies now begging for seats in the Lords,
like Vietnamese collaborators seeking to flee Saigon on the last helicopters
lifting out of the U.S. embassy. He denied having a list, but wriggled out of
being more precise. Does he dare create any peerages while planning a 'new
constitutional settlement'?

The Prime Minister, it is always worth reminding ourselves, demanded and got the
job without bothering with an election. Nor has he had one since.

Technically I am sure this does not prevent his creating peerages but you'd
think he'd feel a bit bashful about it.

His predecessor, Tony Blair, was elected as Labour leader and on three occasions
led the party to general election victory. Yet he issued no retirement list of
peerages for cronies. Is it possible that -- in return for his support, or his
silence during the current party crisis -- Brown has promised to stick Tony's
bailing-out colleagues in the House of Lords?

We're in uncharted political waters. Anything can happen now.

--

CASH AND CARRY-ON

WHO do you think must have laughed longest and loudest over Tory MP Bill Cash
being caught in the MPs' expenses uproar, paying rent to his daughter and
charging it to the taxpayer while his own Westminster flat was occupied by his
son? Perhaps former Tory premier John Major, tormented to distraction by
Eurosceptic Cash and his followers.

THE acrobatic dancers, Diversity, who won a slot at the Royal Variety
Performance on Britain's Got Talent, were energetic and eyecatching. But what a
cringe-making, politically correct name!

NO ONE in politics ever objects to being called a grandee, which means 'an
important person, especially in a particular job or area of public life'. Is it
time to have a Register of Grandees?

---

THE Queen should represent Britain at the invasion of Normandy's 65th
anniversary ceremonies even if (as Gordon Brown claimed yesterday) the host,
French President Nicolas Sarkozy, wants only 'presidents and prime ministers'.

Brown mentioned the Canadian premier was coming, too, as if this justifies his
own appearance. But prime ministers don't trump monarchs who served in the war.
Nor do presidents who didn't, such as Sarkozy and Obama. Surely that's all that
counts with the dwindling band of D-Day survivors.

I noticed that every single finalist of Britain's Got Talent said that perfoming
before the Queen at the Royal Variety Performance would be the greatest honour
they could ever imagine. No doubt it was rehearsed, but they didn't sound phony.
Would any performer -- even a one-legged pole dancer -- hunger to perform before
Sarkozy or Brown?

Surely it's the same with Normandy. Wouldn't survivors and their families prefer
a figurehead above politics rather than those who will cynically manipulate the
occasion for votes?

--

MOTHERS ARE NOT INFALLIBLE

WOULD a court have decided a 24-year-old single mother was 'too stupid' to care
for her three-year-old daughter if this wasn't so?

According to a weekend news report, 'Rachel' -- her full name withheld for legal
reasons -- this has happened.

We're indignant if the rights of mothers are asserted and childen die as a
result. We're indignant if social work professionals and courts assert what they
see as the rights of children. There are no reliable general rules here. It's
particular circumstances. So I'm reluctant to get carried away about this case.
Of course, it's offensive to say someone's too stupid to look after children,
but it doesn't mean this is always wrong. So let's stop pretending to be shocked
about it.

--

48-HOUR WEEK 'CATASTROPHE'

HOSPITALS may have to close to emergencies and waiting lists could soar because
of ' catastrophic' EU rules on working hours, surgeons claim.

From August 1, the European Working Time Directive will limit the number of
hours a doctor or surgeon can work to 48 a week.

John Black, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, said the curb will mean
hospitals will not have enough staff available to stay open, and surgeons will
take longer to become properly trained ñ putting patients at risk.

Some European countries have fought for and won opt-outs for medical staff, but
Britain has not.

Professor Black said: 'Unless the Government comes to its senses, the result
will be catastrophic for the NHS with patient safety on a knife edge, surgeons
not being properly trained, waiting lists going up again and even hospitals
closing.

He added: 'There is a serious risk of units in hospitals having to close to
emergencies, not to mention the danger brought about by patients going long
distances to a hospital that has enough staff to stay open.

'This is truly a nightmare, and I despair that the Government will not take
action.'

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: 'We are listening to concerns and
closely monitoring the situation and providing expert support.'

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

THE VULTURES CIRCLE BROWN

BYLINE: By Ian Drury Political Reporter

LENGTH: 823 words


A GANG of desperate Labour MPs is plotting to topple Gordon Brown in a
grass-roots revolution.

With Cabinet ministers unprepared to act, the threat to his leadership will come
from the back benches.

One senior member with Blairite sympathies vowed last night: 'I am going to do
all I can to undermine him. I want Gordon Brown out.'

Fears are mounting among the Labour rank and file that the party will be wiped
out at the General Election if Mr Brown remains at the helm, following an
expected drubbing in Thursday's local and European elections.

But in a pre-emptive strike against the plotters, and those demanding an
immediate General Election, he made clear yesterday that he had no intention of
quitting. On another day of frenzied activity at Westminster: -- A national
opinion poll put Labour in third place for the first time since 1987. -- Mr
Brown promised a 'major and surgical' overhaul of the political system. A
Constitutional Renewal Bill, including a new legally-binding code of conduct for
MPs, will be brought before Parliament in the autumn. He also said police should
investigate the worst cases of fraud. -- The LibDems demanded that Alistair
Darling step down as Chancellor, accusing him of being 'caught with his fingers
in the till'. -- David Cameron came under scrutiny for paying off a loan on his
London home shortly after taking out a £350,000 taxpayer-funded mortgage on his
constituency property. -- Veteran Labour MP Frank Cook was forced to apologise
after an office mixup-meant he tried to claim back £5 donated during a church
service to commemorate the Battle of Britain.

The Labour plotters against Mr Brown are putting together a plan to force him
out by destabilising him with a steady drip, drip of interventions. The first
could come at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party tonight.

Senior Cabinet figures who could have told the Prime Minister his time was up,
such as Lord Mandelson and Jack Straw, have signalled that they are not prepared
to move whatever the outcome of Thursday's elections. The backbencher who spoke
to the Mail, who is not regarded as a serial rebel, complained: 'There are no
men in grey suits, just grey men in suits.'

The plotters believe that installing a new leader, with Health Secretary Alan
Johnson emerging as the favoured choice, will not save Labour from defeat in a
General Election but might limit the damage.

A national opinion poll yesterday put the Tories on 40 per cent, the Liberal
Democrats on 25 and Labour on 22. In the European elections, Labour risks coming
fourth behind UKIP.

But despite a certain ballotbox bloodbath, Mr Brown was defiant.

Asked on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show whether he would stand aside if Cabinet members
said it would help Labour's chances at a General Election, he replied: 'No,
because I am dealing with the issues at hand. I am dealing with the economy
every day.'

Instead, the Prime Minister is likely to relaunch his government with a
reshuffle. Communities Secretary Hazel Blears is facing demotion after dodging
capital gains tax on the sale of her second home and Home Secretary Jacqui Smith
has already indicated that she wants to step down from the Cabinet. Chancellor
Alistair Darling, under pressure over his expenses claims, could make way for Mr
Brown's close ally Ed Balls, according to rumours in Westminster.

Turning up the heat on Mr Darling, LibDem Treasury spokesman Vince Cable
yesterday launched an unusual personal attack to demand his scalp.

He said: 'Here is the company finance director caught with his fingers in the
till. He must go, now.

'We need a Chancellor focusing on the national accounts rather than his own.
There are some urgent economic questions to address.'

His party leader Nick Clegg added: 'It's simply impossible for him to continue
in that role when such very major quessteppingtion-marks are being raised about
his financial affairs.'

Yesterday David Cameron renewed his demands for an immediate General Election to
cleanse the discredited Westminster system.

'The public want to be part of the picture,' he said. 'They want to sit in
judgment on MPs, they want to elect a new Parliament that will set the new
rules, that will elect a new Speaker, that will make a new start.'

The Tory leader said he would not push MPs who had agreed to quit Parliament
into down immediately despite public anger that they will continue to be paid
and qualify for a generous pay-off.

'I want to maximise the pressure for a General Election and a rash of
by-elections will let the Government off the hook,' he told Channel 4 News.

But Mr Brown insisted: 'What's the point in electing a new Parliament if you
haven't got plans to clean up the system? 'My plan is to clean up the system and
make sure that by the time we have an election, we have shown people that we can
clean up the system. My plan is also to get us through this economic downturn.'

Brown's new rulebook ñ

Pages 8-9 Comment ñ Page 14 Peter McKay ñ Page 17

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

If the EU seems intent on a putsch then Ukip should give it a shove

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: CITY; Personal view; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854  words


The European Union has slipped the leash of democratic control. It is one thing
to advance the Monnet Project by treaty creep and stealth directives. It is
another to put questions of sovereignty to a popular vote and then refuse to
abide by the outcome.

Europe's elites have crossed a political line by reviving the EU Constitution
under the guise of the Lisbon Treaty and ramming it through without referendums,
after it had already been rejected by French and Dutch voters.

To continue a second time after rejection by the Irish - alone in voting -
amounts to a putsch.

Without rehashing the Lisbon debate, remember that this text transforms the
European Court (ECJ) into a fully-fledged supreme court, with jurisdiction over
the rights charter and the broad reach of "Union Law'' rather than just the
narrow (Pillar 1) fiefdom of commercial law it holds today. This is a quantum
leap.

Euro-judges will have the last say on areas of social policy, macro-economics,
home affairs, justice, and arguably diplomacy.

I might add - apologies to law professors - that the crude difference between
core Europe and Britain/Ireland is that Napoleonic law forbids unless
specifically allowed, while Common Law allows unless specifically forbidden.
This is the legal foundation of Anglo-Saxon scientific and commercial
creativity, and perhaps the reason democracy has bedded better in the
Anglo-sphere.

It is obvious that a text creating a full-time EU president and an EU justice
department, and which gives Euro-MPs power of the purse for the first time, is
an attempt to establish a unitary state. This is no longer a treaty club.

Personally, I will register my protest by voting for the Ukip, knowing that the
number two on their list in my South East region is Marta Andreasen - sacked as
the Commission's chief accountant for calling the EU budget "an open till
waiting to be robbed''. A strong showing for Ukip should be enough to put her on
to the EU's Budget Control Committee, where she can exact revenge for all of us.

We know from an internal memo by the head of the Internal Audit Service what was
done to her. "I would for no money have wanted to be in Ms Andreasen's shoes,''
it said, "recognising the unforgiving inclination of a bureaucracy once one is
declared taboo by the powers that be, considering the collective firepower it
can marshal to trash an individual singled out.''

The Budget Directorate was in "persistent denial of the real nature and depth of
problems''. It had failed to sort out the "chronically sordid state of quality
accounting'', and rewarded staff if "they managed not to discover financial
malfeasance''. As the memo admitted, the EU relies on an intimidation culture
where "might makes right''.

So Marta has my vote. It is a nice twist that Ukip has enlisted a
Catalan-Argentine, albeit one educated at an English girls school in Buenos
Aires.

Yes, our own Parliament is mired in squalor too, but the expense scams of MPs
have at least been brought to light, and the worst offenders are being driven
from the Commons. We have democratic catharsis.

Nothing is ever really exposed in the EU system, where press coverage is tribal,
and segmented by languages. MEP expense

abuse runs even deeper, and involves greater sums. An Open Europe study found
that MEPs garner  pounds 363,000 in expenses, including a  pounds 261 daily
subsistence allowance and  pounds 45,648 in office cash (no receipts needed),
and  pounds 41,641 in "transitional'' payments. A quarter employ spouses as
aides.

Nordics, Balts, and Club Meds can make a tidy sum booking travel at business
rates per mile but flying discount, though this is at last being reformed. Jens
Holm, a Swedish Left Party MEP, said that he been receiving euro2,000 for each
fare from Stockholm to Brussels though it costs euro500. He gives away the
difference. "The vast majority keep the money for themselves,'' he said.

There are different kinds of Eurosceptics. Some think the EU has been a Vichy
stitch-up from the start. That is not my view. The Project was a triumph of
joint US and European statecraft in the early days, bringing Germany back into
the fold to help contain Soviet power.

Nor do I think that British membership has been wholly bad. The Single European
Act, signed in 1986, owed as much to Margaret Thatcher as any other leader, and
the EU's Competition Directorate is the spearhead of free market ideology -
which is why France's Nicolas Sarkozy went to such lengths to gut the
competition clause in the Lisbon Treaty.

The risk of leaving in a petulant fit is that Holland, Denmark, Poland and
others often on our side in an evenly-balanced power structure will tuck in
behind the Franco-German axis, causing Europe to become what we wish to avoid.
But geo-strategic sophistry leads to paralysis in the end.

Lisbon is not yet EU law. Irish voters may balk again, but it would take a brave
nation to persist in defiance as they succumb to savage (EMU-induced) debt
deflation.

Sadly, I think we must start planning to extract ourselves as gracefully as we
can from this Project before it has the chance to abolish referendums for ever

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

ANALYSIS;
It's clear the people's choice is an early general election

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Investigation; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634  words


THE prospect that a sitting government could conceivably come fourth in a
national election in terms of share of the vote is startling; even to come third
is unheard of, though Labour almost did in 1983 but the SDP-Liberal Alliance
failed to overcome them.

Fourth would be truly extraordinary. Yet this is what the monthly YouGov opinion
poll for The Daily Telegraph suggests could happen on Thursday when the country
(or part of it, at any rate) votes in the European elections.

Labour's potential for a truly catastrophic performance is enhanced by the
county council elections in England the same day, which are likely to boost the
anti-Labour vote since the party is weakest of all in the shires. The YouGov
poll confirms that the two big parties have been harmed by the expenses scandal,
but Labour has been hit hardest.

It has reinforced a trend away from the Government that was already apparent
before this newspaper began its campaign of disclosures three weeks ago.

The Tories were then 18 points ahead of Labour and are now 17 points in front.
But whereas the Tories have dropped from 45 per cent to 39 per cent, Labour has
slumped to 22 per cent, which would be far and away the worst performance of a
governing party in modern times if replicated at a general election.

When YouGov asked people how they would vote in the European elections, the news
is worse for both parties as many more people intend to vote for fringe parties
than would be the case when it comes to choosing a government. Here the Tories
have just 27 per cent support among those who say they are certain to vote,
while Labour is at 17 per cent, almost neck-and-neck with the Lib Dems and Ukip.

The disenchantment with mainstream politics is profound.

For the European elections, the combined support for the Tories and Labour is
just 44 per cent, with third and fringe parties making up the remaining 56 per
cent.

It is true that neither of the two big parties fared particularly well at the
last euro-elections five years ago. Labour, after all, secured just 26 per cent
of the vote then yet went on to win a Commons majority of more than 60 in the
following year's general election. But for the governing party to be scrabbling
around for votes unable to be certain that it will beat Ukip is evidence of the
exceptional times we are going through.

So, too, is the prospect of the BNP winning a seat in the European Parliament,
which is now a real prospect under the system of proportional representation if
they win seven per cent or more of the vote in a particular area.

However, while constitutional experts debate whether radical reforms are needed
to address this mood, the British public is shown by this poll to be far more
pragmatic. Voters are not overwhelmingly interested in proportional
representation or written constitutions, though there is substantial support for
both. What there is absolutely no appetite for is republicanism: only 22 per
cent would favour abolishing the monarchy.

A significant majority believes that the British political system is
fundamentally sound and should not be knocked off course because some MPs have
benefited from lax rules over expenses.

What is evident from the poll is that voters want the guilty individuals to be
penalised, not the entire system smashed. More than 80 per cent want MPs who
have abused the system expelled and 75 per cent want voters to have the power to
recall MPs if they have been found to have done something wrong.

One thing is clear: most people want an election either now or, preferably, in
the autumn once parties have cleared out candidates they do not want to stand in
their colours.

Only one third want Mr Brown to go the full term which would take him to next
summer. If Labour does come fourth on Thursday, the option may no longer be in
his hands.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

Give us an election, not reform, says poll

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Investigation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 383  words


VOTERS would rather have an early general election to bring in new MPs than make
fundamental changes to the parliamentary system, a YouGov poll for The Daily
Telegraph has found.

Six in 10 voters want Gordon Brown to call a general election by the autumn
rather than waiting until next year, blaming MPs rather than the system in which
they operate for the scandal over expenses.

Two thirds of those questioned agreed that there was "nothing fundamentally
wrong with Britain's constitution providing that MPs are honest and competent''.

Almost half believe that most MPs are personally corrupt.

The results of the poll, which make unremittingly grim reading for the Prime
Minister, also show that Labour could be beaten into fourth place behind the
Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Ukip at the European elections on Thursday.
Mr Brown's approval rating is now down to 17 per cent, meaning that he is even
more unpopular than Michael Foot, who led Labour to a disastrous general
election defeat in 1983.

The poll also found that the BNP could return up to four MEPs to the European
parliament this week.

The system of proportional representation used in the European elections means
the party is on the cusp of gaining enough votes to win seats in London, the
North West, the West Midlands and Yorkshire & Humber.

The opinion poll sampled more than 5,000 voters, more than twice the usual
number, making it one of the most

authoritative surveys conducted since the expenses scandal broke more than three
weeks ago. Asked when the next general election should be held, 18 per cent said
Mr Brown should go to the country within the next few weeks, 42 per cent said he
should wait until the autumn, and 32 per cent believe he should wait until next
year. The result will heap further pressure on Mr Brown to call an early
election, following accusations from David Cameron and Nick Clegg, the Liberal
Democrat leader, that he is presiding over a lame duck parliament. The more
immediate worry for Mr Brown is that voting intentions for the European
elections show there is so little between Labour, the Lib Dems and Ukip that
predicting which of them will come

fourth is too close to call. While the Tories are ahead on 27 per cent, Labour
is on 17 per cent, Ukip on 16 per cent and the Lib Dems 15 per cent

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

Best chance for the maverick fringe?;
Minority parties are relying on voter apathy in this week's European elections.
But that is about to change, say Adrian Michaels and Peter Hutchison

BYLINE: Adrian Michaels and Peter Hutchison

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1295  words


In Romania, the "Paris Hilton of the Carpathians'' is up for election. In
Poland, an anti-communist hero has been promoting an Irish-based reform party.
In France, the anti-capitalists are making noise - as usual.

On Thursday, polling booths open for the seventh elections to the European
Parliament, and there might just be the candidate for you. Across the European
Union's 27 countries a host of serious, extreme, dangerous and wacky individuals
is hoping to take advantage of the appalling state of the global economy and
perceived voter disillusionment with mainstream political parties.

Some of the candidates could indeed cause a stir. Of the 375 million people who
are entitled to vote, it is possible that fewer than 150 million will do so.
Turnout has fallen steadily since the 63 per cent recorded in the first European
Parliament poll in 1979, and scraped in at 46 per cent at the last vote in 2004.
This time it could be as low as 40 per cent.

Simon Hix, a political scientist at the London School of Economics, says a low
turnout could enable fringe and extreme parties to secure a higher proportion of
the vote. Jacki Davis, of the European Policy Centre think tank, agrees: "The
lower the turnout, the more likely fringe parties are likely to do well... those
who are really motivated to come out and vote, will vote.''

However, Mr Hix says: "Whether these parties will garner enough votes to send
MEPs to Brussels and Strasbourg remains to be seen but, undoubtedly, there is a
feeling that this could be the election when they make their big breakthrough.''

Certainly, that is the hope of the Pirate Party in Sweden. It wants a reform of
copyright law, in part no doubt to facilitate the private downloading and
sharing of films that the Swedish enjoy best. The Anti-Capitalist Party in
France is demanding just one retail bank. In the UK, the Jury Team - the idea of
Sir Paul Judge, the former director-general of the Conservative Party - is
fielding 59 candidates, and will be hoping that the Westminster expenses scandal
plays into its hands. Jury Team says its "coalition of independent candidates''
believes "the current political system perpetuates both malpractice and waste at
the heart''.

Elena Basescu, though seemingly a brunette, has been compared with the peroxide
Miss Hilton, and potential voters can judge her online sprawling across car
seats and astride reclining horses. She is the daughter of Traian Basescu,
Romania's president, and is running as an independent for parliament, to loud
cries of nepotism.

Libertas is one of the most ambitious parties. It is strongly sceptical about
Europe and has 600 affiliated candidates standing across the EU. Declan Ganley,
the English-accented Irishman in charge, has at times been backed by Lech
Walesa, the trade unionist who helped bring down Poland's Communist regime.

Not many of these organisations or people are expected to fare well. Numbers
crunched by Mr Hix and others forecast that Libertas will not gain even the one
seat it is hoping for in Ireland. The pirates of Sweden may pick up a seat.
However, there have been predictions that a number of fiercely sceptical and
far-Right parties could see a rise in support.

Of the sceptics, the UK Independence Party fancies its chances, as does True
Finns, another Nordic group. At the extreme end, the British National Party has
received plenty of publicity. The National Party in the Czech Republic courted
censorship after broadcasting an advert promising a "final solution to the Gipsy
issue''. In Austria, the far-Right is already powerful. The Front National is
looking strong in Belgium's Wallonia. The Party for Freedom of Geert Wilders,
the controversial Dutch politician who was refused entry to the UK, may gain a
large share of the vote. Hungary's nationalist Jobbik party might be backed by
10 per cent of the electorate.

But what is not clear is whether any of these groups can take votes from the
mainstream rather than each other. France's Front National, for example, has
been losing ground to other parties on the fringe.

The majority of observers say that even if the far-Right's vote does go up, it
will not translate into many more seats beyond the 4 per cent or so it holds in
the current Parliament. The overall balance of power between the main political
groups is unlikely to change dramatically. A centre-Right grouping may be caught
slightly by the centre-Left, but will still be the dominant force.

If the fringe parties do not gain greater say in Brussels, the expected low
turnout will still reinforce their criticism of the mainstream in one very
important way: the elected members of the European Parliament are likely soon to
be granted far more power to influence your life, as an ever-receding number of
people bother to vote. For opponents of greater federalism such as Daniel
Hannan, the Conservative MEP for South East England, this is an argument for
unwinding Brussels and handing its costs back to taxpayers. Mr Hannan wrote on
his Telegraph blog last week: "The more powerful MEPs become, the less
legitimate they appear in the eyes of their constituents.''

Curiously, the low level of voting comes just as the EU has demonstrated its
worth. The global economic crisis has accounted for the total collapse of the
economy and government of Iceland, which is not a member. Terrible over-reach
could have handed the same fate to Ireland, but for the stability conferred by
the euro and injections by the European Central Bank.

The electorate's apathy also stands in contrast to the continued desire of
outside governments to join the club. In the coming years, the EU will steadily
represent an ever greater bloc of the world as accession negotiations with
several countries, mostly in the Balkans, continue. Remarkably, the lack of
voter interest has tended to be at its highest among those countries that have
just joined. Only half of the 10 most recent EU members registered a turnout of
more than 30 per cent at the last election in 2004, the first in which they were
able to vote. In Slovakia, less than 17 per cent of those eligible bothered to
record an opinion. In Poland, the figure was 21 per cent.

All that may be changed by the actions of the next parliament. Under a recasting
of the EU's workings - the Treaty of Lisbon - it is proposed that the parliament
will for the first time have as much law-making power as the Council of the
European Union, the body comprised of ministers from national governments. That
means that the parliament will have an equal say with member countries on such
crucial topics as the budget, agriculture policy and justice. It will have
primacy over national parliaments.

Meanwhile, the Lisbon Treaty will also see a raising of the profile of the EU.
There will be an EU president - Tony Blair is a possible contender - to
represent the grouping more formally on the world stage. There will also be the
creation of an EU diplomatic corps under the control of a European "foreign
minister'', rebranded as a high representative.

If, as expected, Ireland reverses its negative referendum on the treaty this
year, it will remove the last major obstacle among the 27 member countries to
the implementation of the treaty.

Andrew Duff, a Liberal Democrat MEP, sees the treaty as an opportunity to grab
the attention of voters and governments. "There will be a tremendous growth in
scrutiny panels and [the European] parliament will be transformed,'' he said.
"National governments will have to take more of an interest.''

Turnout, then, could be boosted at the next election in 2014 when a severely
agitated public is finally goaded into voting by years of unavoidable news from
Brussels. This week could be the fringe's best shot.

Additional reporting by Martin Banks.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Thirst for political blood could be a disaster for us all;
LEADER

BYLINE: Kerry Gill Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 898  words


ANOTHER day, another clutch of MPs caught fiddling their expenses reluctantly
resigns. At this rate, it will be interesting to see not how many existing MPs
are re-elected at the General Election, but how many are left to stand for
re-election in the first place.

Most of them, if not all, deserve their fate, having milked the taxpayer
shamelessly for years, raking in sums that many people would be more than happy
to enjoy as their annual income.

The public's outrage has been caused because these were men and women in whom we
put our trust. We may have purported to regard politicians with more contempt
than an estate agent, or indeed a journalist, but the truth is that most of us
held our elected representatives in some esteem.

Over the last few weeks we have been by turn entertained and infuriated by these
slightly ludicrous figures attempting to defend themselves charging for KitKats,
clearing a moat or claiming for a non-existent mortgage. In some respects they
have come over as rather pathetic creatures, like naughty schoolboys and girls
caught pinching the teacher's purse.

Within months, or less, they will be gone and a new body of would-be MPs will be
pleading for our vote. Already, a few of them have declared their interest:
Terry Waite, Esther Rantzen, Martin Bell and others whose names may be familiar
locally if not nationally.

One common denominator among these hopefuls is a sense that they are beyond
criticism, whiter than white. Fiddle their expenses? Never. Each is as
determined as the other to paint himself or herself as the kind of MP none of us
ever dared imagine we could have. Lord save me from their piety.

There is no doubt that Westminster needs a rush of cold, fresh air through its
neo-Gothic interiors. The gentlemen's club atmosphere, while preserving much
that is good about our democratic traditions of tolerance and forebearance, has
encouraged the air of superiority, secrecy and eventual venality that led so
many MPs to treat the public purse as a bran tub into which they could dip at
any time for, well, just about any treat ranging from a designer alarm clock to
refurbishment of one's servants' quarters.

But what is the alternative?

In normal times, a new intake of MPs would come from those selected by their
constituency parties; faithful, young, dependable members of the Labour,
Conservative, Liberal Democrat parties, the SNP and, perhaps, a few single issue
politicians.

T HIS time, if the present thirst for blood amongst the public persists - and it
looks as if it will - the major parties will receive a fearsome drubbing and
many of us will be voting for "independents" such as Ms Rantzen, or Terry Waite.
Some will be switching to fringe parties such as UKIP, the various here today,
gone tomorrow Socialist groupings, and the BNP.

Be warned. A parliament of the world's oldest democracy heavily populated by
single interest MPs, self-righteous prigs, TV personalities, men in white suits,
perhaps even the odd neo-fascist, would be a dreadful place that would almost
immediately lose our respect.

To say it would become a squabbling House of Babel is an understatement.

Joanna Lumley, at least, has not announced she will stand for Westminster
despite her astonishing success on behalf of the Gurkhas. Perhaps, sensibly, any
fleeting thoughts about becoming a politician quickly flew out of the window
once she had had a taste of the political bear garden. Doubtless worn out by her
campaign, she has executed an un-Gurkha-like tactical retreat into the political
background. Good for her.

O THERS are less selfeffacing. Actually, I don't mind single issue politicians
who have a bee in their bonnet - to put it at its most flippant. At least,
hopefully, they know what they are talking about on their chosen subject if
nothing else.

It is those who are popping out of the woodwork, insisting "we can be trusted",
as if their mere presence in Westminster would usher in a climate of decency,
probity and self-sacrifice that makes me squirm.

It is all very well them trying to tell us that they are rather better people
than our departing, unlamented MPs, but they might have a little more trouble
persuading us that they are fit to run our country.

Their conceit - albeit hardly unknown among existing MPs - mirrors that of those
wouldbe MSPs a decade ago who, having no experience of national politics
nevertheless informed us that, under them, Holyrood would become the parliament
to which all others would look for guidance.

Those who are really interested in politics begin their careers when students or
as young activists knocking on doors, footsoldiers of their chosen party. Terry
Waite and Esther Rantzen have shown no great interest before.

Why on Earth should we vote for them now?

The disclosure of MPs' expenses has been one of the biggest stories in British
politics in modern history. It will not only change procedures within
Westminster, but it has changed the way we view our MPs forever. At the very
least, they will be under much greater scrutiny and, as a result, their job
proving they are working hard on our behalf will be infinitely more difficult.
That's their problem.

For ourselves, we should not cause yet more trouble by voting for a bunch of
enthusiastic amateurs, mostly with no clear political views, let alone policies,
whose only contribution to public life will be a sickly dose of self-righteous
humbug.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOPEFULS: Can Martin Bell, Esther Rantzen and Terry Waite improve the
image of politicians?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

UKIP can help us get rid of the European issue

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 77  words


IT will be the European elections this week, but most of the political
broadcasts rarely mention Europe.

This is not surprising as all the main political parties have the same agenda,
and, as 75 per cent of our laws are made by Brussels, they have no say on policy
making anyway.

It appears, therefore, that, at the forthcoming elections, we either vote for
one of the main parties or UKIP, ridding ourselves of the whole European
organisation.

S J Withers, Jedburgh

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Greedy MPs hit the pension jackpot;
Labour is third, but PM still won't quit

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 332  words


GORDON Brown yesterday insisted he would not quit as a raft of polls showed the
Labour Party was heading for catastrophic defeat in Thursday's elections.

One survey put Labour in third place for the first time since 1987, on just 22
per cent - three points adrift of the Lib Dems and 18 points behind the Tories.

Another also put Labour third - this time behind the UK Independence Party.

But as panic grew inside Labour, the embattled Prime Minister lashed out.

He dismissed any talk of a leadership challenge by Foreign Secretary David
Miliband, again accusing him of inexperience.

He said: "People are voting on a leader determined to clean up this system and
they are voting on a leader who has got the experience, who has taken people
through economic difficulties before."

Asked if he would stand aside if Cabinet members said it would help Labour's
election chances, Mr Brown replied: "No, because I am dealing with the issues at
hand. I am dealing with the economy every day."

Pressure He tried to convince voters that he shared their anger about the
expenses scandal, once again mentioning his upbringing as the son of a Church of
Scotland minister.

"What I've seen offends my Presbyterian conscience, " he said. "I did not expect
to see instances where there are clear cases which may have to be answered for
fraud."

But he refused to call an early election to allow voters to kick out shamed MPs,
insisting the parties had to come up with plans to clear up the mess first.

Mr Brown said: "What's the point in electing a new Parliament if you haven't got
plans to clean up the system?"

Tory leader David Cameron said the voters wanted their say: "The public want to
be part of the picture, they want to sit in judgment on MPs."

But Mr Cameron added that he would not push Tory MPs who had agreed to quit over
the expenses revelations into stepping down immediately.

"I want to maximise the pressure for a general election and a rash of
by-elections will let the Government off the hook, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

Comment & Debate: Cameron's dystopia: Winged to power in 2010, the Tory leader
enacts his EU referendum pledge. And all hell breaks loose...

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 642 words


I t is 4 June 2010, and our new prime minister is busy making his cabinet. One
of the first out of No 10, beaming for the cameras, is the foreign secretary,
William Hague. He beams especially hard at the BBC's Nick Robinson. "And now, as
our promised first act in government, I'm announcing a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty, redeeming David Cameron's specific, unequivocal pledge in the Guardian
of 25 May 2009." Is there a date for that vote? asks Nick. "Probably 14 October,
just after our party conference," says Hague. Off camera, sterling takes a cold
bath.

To begin with, the usual suspects are euphoric. "Dynamic Dave says Non",
according to the Sun. "We are the masters now, Cameron tells Europe", leads the
Telegraph. But the mood doesn't last. Ken Clarke and four others decline
administration jobs. Twelve Conservative MEPs in Strasbourg, furious after a
year sitting next to Polish homophobes and Spanish neo-Francoists, announce that
they're forming the Heath Group, "true Tories for a united future".

"It seems remarkably maladroit to reopen these wounds the moment you regain
power," the FT observes. "Mr Cameron had a perfect excuse for not pushing his
opposition to Lisbon when the Irish reversed their own referendum veto last
autumn, but now Britain and the markets face months of uncertainty. If the
Conservatives win this vote, what will they do with their victory? The prime
minister's rhetoric about a British bill of rights hints that the European
Convention on Human Rights can be scrapped. Yet even Mr Cameron's law officers
admit that this is pie in the sky."

Whoops! And there goes the recovering FTSE, plunging 562 points in a week.
Angela Merkel phones Downing Street to warn that there can be no renegotiation
of a treaty that 27 countries, including Britain, have ratified. Mr Sarkozy
cancels a mini-summit at Chequers.

Sterling against the euro has not fallen through the floor yet, but the pound,
at 1.02 to the dollar, is causing alarm. The CBI leads a delegation of trade
unionists and industrialists warning of a "fateful step at a fateful time". And
the Observer makes a telling point. "The British people have had nothing but
crisis, scandal and election fever for two years now," it says. "Has Mr Cameron
really decided to devote the first four months of his administration to more
frantic electioneering and economic turmoil? We suddenly see the smile on the
face of a zealot."

And then there is Barack Obama. He sent his congratulations on 4 June. Now, on
24 June, the goodwill has drained away. "Sure we have a special relationship,"
he tells a press conference, "and special friends can be specially frank. We
value Great Britain not just for itself, but as a vital bridge to Europe. We
want the Balkans settled. We want Turkey's role defined, and a firm concordat
with Moscow. I believe Secretary of State Clinton has made it clear to Secretary
Hague that none of these goals can be achieved if Britain and the rest of the
union are at daggers drawn."

"Brilliant!" says Labour's Alan Johnson scornfully. "Never mind Cameron's first
100 days. He's pissed everybody off in his first 100 minutes." Gordon Brown may
have shuffled into history, but Johnson, cracking jokes and heading the Labour
campaign, is establishing himself fast - and making common cause with the Lib
Dems' Nick Clegg.

Cameron doesn't have much of a majority. He needs cross-party support to get his
agenda through. "But how can you begin by not listening?" Clegg inquires. The
polls on Lisbon are closing to 59:41 from 72:28 in the spring. A second question
- Europe: In or Out? - is 53:47 for staying in. And sterling is still tanking.
"Where did it all go wrong?" Johnson asks. "Last year I reckon, when he got the
wind up over Ukip, but we were all too bloody absorbed by bath plugs, toilet
seats and trouser presses."

p.preston@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Election special 2009: Across Europe: Europe's politics: This map shows the
number of MEPs to be elected this week in each country and the dominant party
grouping

SECTION: GUARDIAN NEWSPRINT SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 491 words


Sweden

The new single-issue Pirate party, enraged at criminalising

file-sharing, has stormed up the polls into third place and could take a couple
of Sweden's 18 seats

Germany

The election is being closely watched for clues to the outcome of the general
election in September. Chancellor Angela Merkel's sister party, the Christian
Social Union, may not muster the 5% needed to win any seats, which would be
sensational. The free market liberal FDP is doing well in the polls. The
question is whether it can do well enough for

Merkel to risk a more reformist rightwing alliance with them and break her grand
coalition with the Social Democrats

Poland

The government of Donald Tusk is centre-right, while the main opposition, Law
and Justice (PiS) is further to the right. They could grab 40 of Poland's 50
seats. Despite PiS' Euroscepticism, the EU is hugely popular in Poland. Tusk
should reap the benefit with half the vote

East Midlands

5

Yorkshire

& Humber

6

2009

election seats

Cons

2

Green

2

Labour

1

Lib Dem

1

Labour

2

dropped this time. Ukip also did well. Between them, the two

parties will share one, or even

two seats. The LibDems could

lose out

East Midlands

Ukip thrived here in 2004 .

The party had been expected to

struggle but may now match its

previous vote and keep two seats

Netherlands

The Dutch political establishment is scrambling to erect a

cordon sanitaire around Geert Wilders, the loud anti-Islam,

anti-immigration, and anti-Europe leader whose Freedom party is now competing to
be the most popular outfit in the country. Wilders, who faces prosecution for
hate speech, is

not running himself, but hopes to net five of the country's 25 seats by coming
second

Austria

A nasty campaign in a country that has benefited immensely

from EU membership and the 2004 enlargement. The far-right

Freedom party could net 20% of the vote after parading

crucifixes before Islamic buildings and stoking antisemitism with campaign ads
declaring no to Israel joining the EU. Israel has not asked to join. The
sleaze-busting campaigner

Hans-Peter Martin is tipped to take 15%. Anti-Europeans could muster 40% all in

Hungary

The plight of the centre-left across Europe is most

pronounced here, with the opposition rightwing Fidesz

poised for a landslide and more than half of the country's 22 seats. Fidesz is
tipped to take twice as many as the discredited governing Socialists who have
led Hungary into financial and economic meltdown. The neo-fascist Jobbik party
hopes for a single seat following a menacing anti-Gypsy campaign

France

For the mainstream governing parties of Europe, the campaign

has been dull, careless, and defensive. The exception is

President Nicolas Sarkozy, one of the few leaders energetically making the case
for his vision of Europe - emphasising his rejection of Turkey joining the EU.
His UMP is expected to gain an extra 10 seats, while the hapless Socialists are
tipped to lose 10. The new anti-capitalist

movement, led by a postman Trotskyist, could take 10%

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2009 Wednesday



CORRECTION: On a map of the British Isles in a pre-election graphic (Across
Europe, 1 June, page 2, Elections special 2009), pie charts showing how each
party's European parliament candidates fared should all have been headed "Number
of MEPs elected in 2004" rather than "Number of MEPs now". Where the East
Midlands chart showed two Green MEPs, it should have shown two Ukip MEPs
elected. In the south-east the chart gave the Lib Dems three MEPs when two were
elected. The south-west showed the Greens with two seats which actually belong
to Ukip. And an outdated Plaid Cymru logo was shown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

National: Politics in crisis: Little is certain in the present political climate
- except one thing: Labour is doing terribly: Polls analysis

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


All polls taken at such a volatile time should be treated with caution. The
Liberal Democrats cheered their second place - on 25% - in yesterday's Sunday
Telegraph ICM report of Westminster voting intentions but days earlier the same
party was on a dismal 15% in a Times poll.

Support for all parties, and especially the minor ones, is dancing around, with
the Greens an under-reported beneficiary. Only one thing is consistent: Labour
is doing terribly.

Yesterday's ICM poll was the worst ever from the company for Labour. It was far
worse than most of the polls that hit John Major's government even at its
blackest moments. Only 22% of voters say they would back Labour at a general
election: lower than the 25% Labour fell to in a Guardian poll last summer, and
much lower than the 30% the Tories scored at the start of June 1996, a year
before their own crushing defeat.

Three things in particular should frighten the party. First, its own support is
heading for rock bottom. Second, the Conservatives are suffering
disproportionately less from the expenses scandal - yesterday's score of 40%
would have been unimpressive in normal times, but looks strong now. Third, other
parties are hacking away at Labour support from all sides.

The Greens and the Lib Dems are taking votes on the progressive centre left.
Ukip and the BNP are attacking from the right. Labour is besieged. Yesterday's
poll was the first from ICM since 1985 to put Labour third. It is possible that
the latest crop of dreadful polls overstate Labour's decline. It is hard to
measure the likely shares of the vote in the European elections, when many
people stay at home.

ICM has tried to do this twice and another company, Populus, once. But even if
they overstate the threat to Labour - and there are good reasons to think they
have underestimated it - the party is in for a drubbing.

Yesterday's poll put Labour support for the European elections on 17%. Populus
had 16%. The Guardian's ICM poll last month put the figure at 24% - but that
might have been before the full impact of the expenses crisis struck.

More significant for Brown's future is public support for the party in a
Westminster election.

A few days before the 2004 European elections, ICM put this at 37%, which is
more or less what Labour won with in the general election a year later. That is
15 points higher than Labour's score in yesterday's poll.

To put this into context, the last Guardian poll before Tony Blair resigned in
2007 put Labour on 32%, 11 points higher than now. Labour was on 38% - 16 points
higher - when Gordon Brown eventually decided against a general election in
2007. It was on 35% just before Margaret Thatcher won her last landslide
election in 1987. It hit 62% - almost three times today's score - just after New
Labour won in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

The coming of the Greens

LENGTH: 701 words

ABSTRACT

Tony Juniper: A protest against the three main parties can be a positive thing -
there is a good alternative to racists or Eurosceptics

FULL TEXT

Twenty years ago, amid a backdrop of disillusionment with the established
parties and growing concerns over environmental issues, including nuclear power
following the dreadful Chernobyl accident, the Green party shocked the political
elite by winning 15% of the vote in the 1989 Euro elections. Fast-forward to the
present, and the emerging story of the 2009 Euro elections is that overlaid upon
a massive economic and environmental crisis is the extremely widespread public
anger at the abuse of the expenses scandal by MPs from the main three parties:
anger that promises to drive millions of people into voting for smaller parties.

Could these circumstances lead to another great bounce for the Green party? Or
will it be that others among the small parties will more effectively cash in on
the bonanza of headlines condemning the disconnectedness of the main parties?

The media have talked up the threat of a BNP breakthrough, particularly in the
north west region. Even taking into account the possibility some are too
embarrassed to tell pollsters they will vote for the BNP, the latest  indicate
that recent events have failed to translate into . Those wishing to punish what
they see as criminal behaviour on the part of the Westminster parties by voting
BNP should avail themselves of the record of criminal convictions by some  and
leaders.

What of Ukip? While the media initially portrayed them as the main beneficiaries
of the expenses scandal, polls again show their support to have levelled off.
Like the BNP, a vote for Ukip would actually be a vote against cleaning up
politics: two of their MEPs have already been charged or convicted of fraud, and
their leader Nigel Farage has apparently boasted that his party costs the
taxpayer . Farage was rated among the  out of the entire 786 in the European
parliament in terms of accountability and transparency. He presides over a party
so rabidly anti-Europe that they vote against any EU legislation, regardless of
any potential benefit to the UK. At a time when the EU is the only possible
leader on global climate, and when the EU is responsible for some 80% of the
UK's environmental legislation, Ukip's climate change denial is not only
embarrassing but is very dangerous.

The Green party, in contrast, has proven itself a constructive and trustworthy
force in European politics. Its leader, Caroline Lucas MEP, was rated among the
most transparent and accountable MEPs in the same report that exposed Nigel
Farage. Greens have consistently called for an overhaul of the political system
to stamp out corruption, including the introduction of sweeping electoral
reform. A vote for the Green party is not only a vote against corruption: it is
a vote for a better, more responsive political system. That is why Rupert Read,
lead Green candidate here where I live in the eastern region, has  by Martin
Bell, Mark Thomas and Craig Murray - the former UK ambassador to Uzbekistan who
exposed that government's corruption and use of torture. That is why Joanna
Lumley, fresh from her victory over the government on behalf of the Gurkhas,
said when endorsing the Green party this week that they were "".

Indeed, the choice facing the electorate next Thursday could not be clearer. On
the one hand there is the prospect to register a protest against the abuses of
the main Westminster parties by backing either an equally unaccountable
eurosceptic, climate change-denying party, or a blatantly racist party. On the
other side it will be possible next week to make a positive vote to clean up
politics, in support of some of Europe's most transparent and motivated
politicians, and starting at last to build a greener, more resilient economy.
The political climate has decisively changed and the time is ripe for another
electoral breakthrough for the Greens, firmly putting the party on course for
gaining more seats in Brussels on 4 June and then at Westminster in the general
election.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

European elections: The anti-science sentiment infecting politics

LENGTH: 939 words

ABSTRACT

In the runup to the European elections, the main political parties show a
startling lack of clarity on key scientific issues, say Frank Swain and Martin
Robbins

FULL TEXT

On Thursday, millions of us will go to the polls to decide how Britain is
represented in the European Parliament, but few will have the faintest idea
where the candidates stand on issues that affect the food we eat, the air we
breathe, the energy in our homes and the chemicals in our environment.

Science is at the heart of our modern world, and it deserves to be at the heart
of political discussion too.

To make informed choices on the challenges facing us we need evidence backed up
by robust science, but we rarely stop to question how well our representatives
support or understand science issues in Europe. When we do, the answers can be
disturbing.

This apathy to science is not a new problem. Writing in New Scientist 20 years
ago,  as "disappointing". Today, it hardly rates a mention:  mentions the word
once; it doesn't appear in  at all.

All three main parties give commitment to research only a fleeting mention -
either as part of Britain's move to a "knowledge-based economy", or one of a
raft of measures employed to safeguard the environment. Party positions on
subjects such as nanotechnology, stem cell research, genetic modification,
agriculture, nuclear research and spaceflight remain unclear, even though the
is responsible for billions of euros of spending in these and other areas.

Decisions made in Europe will have a tremendous impact on the UK's scientific
industry, our research institutions and our healthcare, so isn't it about time
we started asking questions about our MEPs' attitudes toward science?

In 2008, vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin drew criticism for her absurd
beliefs - from Creationism to climate denialism - but few seem to realise how
far that same anti-science sentiment has crept into our own politics. ,
including attitudes toward climate change, stem cell research, and energy
dependency.  were far more revealing than we expected. In 2006  came into force,
compelling industry to submit health and safety data on all of the tens of
thousands of chemicals manufactured in or imported to the EU - around 90% of
which we know little or nothing about. However, Tim Worstall, speaking for Ukip
(the UK Independence Party), called this framework "a grossly expensive farce",
adding "it should of course be repealed".

Indeed, Ukip's attitude to science in general concerned us, and one wonders how
many people would still be happy to register protest votes with the party if
they were aware that some of its key members believed , or ranted about the
"Theory of Darwinism".

The less said about the Christian Party (which wants to  the better.

The Green Party built its reputation on progressive social policies, but we were
surprised by its anti-science stance. It told us that the party is proposing an
EU-wide ban on research involving embryonic stem cells, citing the vague
possibility of "unforeseen outcomes harmful both to individuals and to society".

As for GM food, the party seeks to ban the importation of any genetically
modified organisms into the EU, apparently uninterested in seeing if research
produces evidence of benefits contrary to their beliefs, and unaware of the
disastrous consequences this would have on British science.

One scientist working with science communication group Evidence Matters, said:
"Sharing resources is at the heart of scientific collaborations and by
preventing this the Green Party could potentially irreparably harm the
collaborative opportunities open to UK and EU scientists. [Its] position betrays
a fundamental lack of awareness of the details of modern biological research and
displays no understanding of the importance of sharing resources between
scientists across countries and continents."

It is encouraging to find that there appears to be a solid consensus between the
major parties where we need it most. All agree on the importance of climate
change and have comprehensive policies on how to tackle it, from investment in
renewables to improved energy efficiency in homes, transport and industry.
Likewise they could detail their plans to improve energy security in the face of
the EU's infamous dependence on external sources.

The Liberal Democrats could even boast that they helped reduce animal
experimentation while still supporting the need to test new chemicals, thanks to
an insistence on data sharing.

However, many parties struggled to find their own position on less mainstream
subjects.

The European elections need to be about more than immigration and "new rules
from Brussels". Science has a role to play in guiding virtually every aspect of
government policy. Because of this, it is vital that our elected officials can
demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of science policy.

But unless we, as voters, demand clear thinking on these issues from our
candidates, science will continue to be the ghost at the European elections.

To read the full text of the parties' responses, visit  or .

Frank Swain is a freelance writer and blogger. He runs SciencePunk.com. Martin
Robbins is a blogger at layscience.net, and works in R&D

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

You can't reform the European constitution without a ballot

BYLINE: Bruce Anderson

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1201 words


Minor misdemeanours should not distract us from great crimes. Many voters
believe that the political system has betrayed them. So it has. But this is not
a matter of bath-plugs or Remembrance Day wreaths, or even of embezzled mortgage
payments. It is a breach of trust, arising from a broken promise. Those who
broke their word have tried to justify their actions by as cynical a lie as has
ever been told in the history of British politics.

It never seemed likely that Labour would lose the 2005 election. But Tony Blair
and his advisors had one anxiety: the EU constitution. They feared that if this
became an election issue the Tories could gain momentum. So they neutralised it,
by promising a referendum, as did the Liberals.

This caused alarm and despondency among the euro-fanatics. They have always
relied on moving towards federalism by stealth: deceiving the British people
about the centralising consequences of proposed euro-measures, and then
insisting that it was too late to alter them. That was how dishonest salesmen
used to dupe housewives into buying expensive encyclopaedias, until laws were
introduced to prevent them. But euro-dishonesty has never been criminalised.

The late Hugo Young, himself a committed europhile, wrote a surprisingly honest
book called The Blessed Plot, which describes the plots, matured over many
decades by federastic politicians and diplomats, to ensnare Britain into a
federal Europe without ever risking a confrontation with the electorate. These
conspiracies were undertaken for the best of motives. Self-constituted Platonic
guardians, the plotters thought that they knew best. They set out to treat the
mass of voters, with their obstinate addiction to British sovereignty and
British freedoms, like fractious, feverish children who refuse to take the
medicine that will do them good. Some distracting legerdemain: a swift spoon
into the gullet, then a consoling sweet and soothing noises. "There, there -
what was the fuss about?"

Then Tony Blair broke the rules. He announced that the voters would decide.
Hence the europhiles' dismay, but alas, it was premature. Whether or not Mr
Blair always intended to break his word, the euro-fanatics were able to rely on
his successor, the son of the manse who never stops boasting about his values.
Perhaps there were weasels in the manse's garden. If so, Mr Brown did absorb his
values at home.

Labour had promised a referendum on the constitution. So there was an escape
route: rechristen it a Treaty and claim that the referendum was unnecessary. To
their eternal shame, the Liberals acquiesced. Yet no one outside the Labour and
Liberal parties doubts that we are dealing with the same book in different
covers. To argue otherwise would be as convincing as a burglar claiming to be
wrongly indicted because the police were alleging that he had broken in through
the kitchen, when it had in fact been the dining room.

Just like the constitution, the Lisbon Treaty takes major steps towards
establishing a European super-state. The EU would have a president and a foreign
minister. The EU's courts would be given substantially enhanced powers,
including the right to intervene in criminal justice. The Charter of Fundamental
Rights would create enormous scope for intervention. Much of the Treaty is
fuzzily written; that will offer no protection. Over the years, we have learned
that the EU courts always put a federalist gloss on any wording.

The EU already possesses a national anthem, a flag, a parliament, a judiciary, a
currency and a civil service. With the additional powers in this Treaty, there
would be a further acceleration towards statehood. That is not an illegitimate
aspiration. But in Britain at least, it would become illegitimate if it were
implemented by lies and broken promises. Far more than MPs' expenses, that would
strike at the integrity of our political system and violate the compact between
government and people.

Because Parliament has been discredited, there is a lot of talk about procedural
and constitutional changes. Nick Clegg is blowing the dust off every daft
proposal for electoral reform that has been mouldering in his party's archives
for the past half-century. He claims that he wants to reconnect Parliament and
people. As he too broke his word, promising a referendum and then failing to
vote for it, he does not deserve a hearing. Nor does any other soi-disant
reformer who fails to denounce the Labour fraud.

There is a further test which should be applied to anyone who claims to be in
favour of reform. This Thursday, those of us who do vote - the turn-out will
deserve to lose its deposit - will have to plump for a party list. You might
decide that although you like Boodle, you are not so keen on Coodle and would
prefer Duffy. No good: you will have to opt for all the Boodles or all the
Duffys: one reason why so many voters will invoke a plague on the lot of them
and stay at home.

It would be hard for a British government to change the system, for it was
ordained by Europe. Given the disagreeable necessity of holding elections, it is
natural that the EU should devise as restrictive a procedure as possible. But
anyone who does believe in democracy should demand an end to the tyranny of the
party list. Anyone who refuses to do so has thereby trashed his reforming
credentials.

Apropos changes to the system, David Cameron has two difficulties. The first is
minor. He intends to withdraw his party from the EPP-ED, the vaguely
right-of-centre federalist grouping in the European Parliament. This has upset
Angela Merkel. Sixty-four years on, some Germans still cannot accept that other
nations are entitled to make free choices. It has also upset Chris Patten, Leon
Brittan and sundry other federasts, blessedly plotting as ever. But Mr Cameron
has enjoyed his talks with Eastern European anti-federalists and looks forward
to further cooperation in a new group.

The Treaty is a bigger problem. What does he do if it is ratified by the time he
reaches No 10? The federasts hope what some Tories fear: that he would accept
his defeat. But there is an alternative. Hold the referendum which Labour
promised and, assuming a "no" vote, insist on a renegotiation. That would not be
easy. Stuart Wheeler, the Tory donor and all-round bon oeuf who has temporarily
defected to UKIP, has offered to bet Mr Cameron £100,000 that there would be no
referendum.

It would be insider trading for David Cameron to take the bet - which is just as
well for Stuart, as he would lose. Whatever his surface charm, Mr Cameron has a
stubborn core and a powerful Anglo-Saxon sense of fairness. He will not knuckle
under to a Treaty imposed by fraud.

As for the renegotiation, Frau Merkel should look up the history of Margaret
Thatcher's rebate in the early Eighties. Without ever threatening to leave
Europe, she reduced a succession of summits to rubble. If the other member
states insisted that Britain is bound by a Treaty which was lied into being,
there would have to be a lot more rubble. But it would help if the sovereign
people paid less attention to Douglas Hogg's moat and rather more to the moat of
laws and sovereignty which has defended our freedoms over the centuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Labour is running out of friends in the North...;
Lancashire's voters are so angry with the Government that party leaders have
been told to keep away, reports Jonathan Brown

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1149 words


IT'S A GENERATION since Labour took control of Lancashire. When the party swept
to victory in the county's local elections of 1981, Britain was in the grip of a
crippling recession, Ronald Reagan was the radical new president in the White
House, and Spandau Ballet were the hottest act in the charts.

But if this week's local elections have something of a "back to the future" feel
about them for the electorate, perhaps it will feel even more so for the Labour
Party. Here in the Red Rose county the party is looking over its shoulder with
mounting trepidation at a new life in opposition for the first time in many
people's political memories.

For David Cameron, success in Lancashire, one of only four county councils
remaining under Government control, holds out the delicious proposition of a
much-vaunted renaissance in Northern England - a battleground where he must
triumph if he is to win power in the general election next year.

To underscore his determination, Mr Cameron has made three visits to the North
West in recent weeks. Labour, by contrast, is accused of running scared, with
top brass ordered to stay clear of the territory for fear of contaminating the
local brand. Labour activists privately admit to a "difficult" campaign, amid a
dwindling in the sense of mission that kept them ensconced in power at the
rambling Victorian County Hall in Preston for the best part of three decades.

The Valley Centre complex in Rawtenstall, up in the Pennines, is a suitable
symbol for the decline of the Rossendale area. Once it was at the heart of what
was known as Lancashire's Golden Valley - because of the prosperous cotton and
footwear industries. Today the former showpiece 1960s shopping centre,
boarded-up and vandalised, is the first thing that greets bus travellers
arriving from nearby Manchester and Burnley.

"It makes me ashamed to live here. I am ashamed to invite people to the town,"
said one lifelong Labour Party supporter as she made her way home past the
deserted shop fronts.

Other locals speak of a general sense of abandonment - not just with the
continuing presence of the derelict eyesore but with the loss of Woolworths and
the recent retreat of the local newspaper from its town-centre premises.

"I used to vote Labour, but now I don't know," said Anne Gregory, 58. "It has
really gone down hill over the last five or six years. They don't even grit the
roads like they used to."

Not that there is any shortage of collective East Lancs pride here at the
moment: the claret colours of neighbouring Burnley FC fly from cars and homes
celebrating the club's long awaited elevation to the Premiership. But there are
few signs of activity surrounding the forthcoming elections.

Rawtenstall lies within the North Rossendale ward of the Labour leader of
Lancashire Council, Hazel Harding.

Ms Harding, who won her seat on the council in 1985, comes from a tradition of
powerful women forged in the cauldron of the region's politics: they include
former Blackburn MP Barbara Castle and former Lancashire Labour group leader
Louise Ellman.

But defending the slimmest of majorities in her own seat, Ms Harding is
realistic about Labour chances this week, and faces the prospect of defeat with
both sorrow and anger.

"I see the things that we have done and the things that we still want to do -
become efficient, move towards greater localisation - and to not have the
opportunity, and to see some of the services we have built up lost will be very,
very sad," she said.

She insists that Labour has worked harder in this campaign than ever before,
defending its 43 seats on the county council compared to the Conservative tally
of 33. Labour's majority, now down to four, has been steadily eroded by boundary
changes.

Ms Harding says responsibility for the failure to regenerate Rawtenstall's
Valley Centre lies with the Tory district council; though Lancashire's
multi-tiered local government system makes it hard to get that fact across.

The Labour cause in the county has been hit hard by the ongoing MPs' expenses
scandal at Westminster, with local MPs - including Burnley's Kitty Ussher and
Rossendale's own Janet Anderson - finding themselves the target of damaging
headlines.

Ms Harding, a former journalist, says: "I wanted our campaign to be a local
campaign to reflect Labour in Lancashire. Seeing a Cabinet minister or a senior
MP swanning through the town - I am not sure that will help."

The man who hopes to succeed Ms Harding in control of Lancashire's £600m annual
budget and overseeing services to its electorate of one million, is the former
Preston City Council chief executive, Geoff Driver, who is now Conservative
group leader.

His party clearly scents victory, not just in the county council but in a
significant proportion of the 12 Labour-held parliamentary seats within
geographical Lancashire.

When the Conservatives won control of South Ribble district council in 2005
after 12 years in opposition, it was hailed as a turning-point by Mr Cameron,
who made the journey to Lancashire to celebrate. The South Ribble parliamentary
seat, with its 2,184 majority, now looks a real prospect for the Tories.

Dr Andrew Russell, of Manchester University, believes that this week's results
in Lancashire will prove a turning-point for both the Tories and Labour
nationally. If victory in the county's rural fringes offered Labour a
springboard into Middle England during its long years in opposition, so too it
could signal that the tide has finally turned for the Conservatives.

Party power

How they stand

European Parliament elections.

The European election on Thursday will be the largest transnational vote in
history when 375 million citizens in 27 countries take to the polls. Of the 72
seats up for grabs in the UK, the Conservatives hope to add to the 27 they won
on 26.1 per cent of the vote in 2004. The Liberal Democrats are defending 12
seats (14.9 per cent). UKIP (16.1 per cent) wants to maintain its impressive
showing while Labour will do well to hold on to its 19 seats (22.6 per cent).
The Greens will look to add to their two seats (5.8 per cent). The question is
whether the British National Party, fielding leader Nick Griffin in the North
West region, will win enough votes - about 8 per cent - to win the party's first
seat.

Local elections

Labour controls four of the 27 councils going to the polls - Lancashire,
Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire - but is almost certain to lose
some to the Tories. David Cameron is targeting two in the Lib Dem stronghold of
the South West as well as Cumbria and Warwickshire. There are eight polls in
unitary authorities and mayoral elections in Doncaster, Hartlepool and North
Tyne- side. Opinion polls suggest the Tories could surpass 40 per cent of the
vote and win more than 250 seats, wiping Labour out in key areas. But the six
metropolitan counties where Labour support is strong don't vote this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Is there anyone else normal in your party, and when did you last see Kilroy?;
You ask the questions

BYLINE: Nigel Farage Leader of the UK Independence Party

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1272 words


If you make electoral gains, what could you actually do in the European
Parliament to further your cause?

FRANCIS O'CONNELL

Durham

The most important thing we in UKIP do in the parliament is act as an
opposition. We're the only party who ever manage to get people questioning the
basic aims of the project itself.

Isn't there a part of you that would rather still be inside the Conservative
Party, making your voice heard in the eurosceptic party that will soon be in
power in Britain?

JANE JENKINS

Lewisham, London

If I thought the Conservatives were eurosceptic then there might be some point
to considering the question. As they're most definitely not, at least not
sufficiently - there isn't. The Tories make what I consider to be an appalling
error of logic. They believe it is possible to reform the EU from within. After
the way in which the institutions didn't listen to the Dutch, French and Irish
referenda this isn't a tenable position. We can only change things by being out
of the system.

If another party offered a referendum on the EU, would you still have a reason
to exist?

ALEX STRONG

Sheffield

You might remember several parties did offer a referendum. Labour, the Liberal
Democrats and Tories all promised one on the constitution, for example. UKIP has
been highly vocal in reminding people of this: so their offering a referendum
isn't a reason for our non-existence. It's also true that the Lib Dems are
suggesting a straight "in or out" referendum, something we wholeheartedly
believe should happen.

How can you call other parties greedy when you have used an unbelievable £2m in
expenses in the European Parliament yourself?

HENRY WYATT

Farnham, SURREY

There is a massive confusion about this £2m expenses number, especially when you
think the average Westminster MP costs £1.6m in expenses over a decade. For MEPs
there is no second home allowance, no John Lewis list. What does happen is that
in order to help me represent a constituency which is some 100 times the size of
a Westminster one (in fact, my constituency is larger by population than half
the member states of the EU) there is an allowance for me to hire staff. This
money goes to my accountants who then pay the staff, the taxes and so on. This
is the notorious £2m figure: add up the cost of those staff over the decade.
Greed would be my pocketing some or all of this, as it is I never even see it
let alone take any of it. I would not go quite as far as Chris Davies, the Lib
Dem MEP, who told Open Europe he claims his whole staff allowance and, when
asked whether he had ever paid back any excess, said: "Don't think so. If there
was an 'excess' then I would not be doing my political and parliamentary work to
the best of my abilities." But it does cost money to equip me with the staff
needed to represent six million electors.

Be honest: the European Parliament is famously lax on expenses, and UKIP members
are not immune to joining the gravy train are they?

EVE WARBURTON

Bristol

We've had a bad apple, this is true but they exist in every walk of life. What
matters is what you do when you find one. In our case we simply fired the
miscreant as soon as we found out what he'd (allegedly, for the case is still to
come to court) been doing.

There is no chance of your success in the European elections ever translating
into Westminster seats, is there?

GEOFF WALTER

London

I'm not sure why you might think that. True, the first-past-the-post system
makes it more difficult for us but do remember it took the Scottish National
Party more than 50 years to gain their first seat; it took us six years in the
European Parliament.

Was David Cameron right to take the Conservatives out of the European People's
Party?

BRYAN JACOBS

Whitchurch, SHROPSHIRE

Yes: he promised it and politicians should, like everyone else, keep their
promises.

Have you got any views on any issues other than Europe?

TERRI HASTINGS

Carlisle

Of course: for example, we need to take the low paid out of the income tax net.
Increase the personal allowance to the same as minimum wage, around £11,500 a
year. Other advocates of this idea include the rather strange bedfellows of the
Adam Smith Institute and Oxfam.

Is there anyone else credible and normal in your party? Can you give some
examples?

PAUL GONNE

Belfast

"Normal" means the same as the majority and as innumerable opinion polls have
shown the majority share our thought that Britain should leave the EU and simply
trade and cooperate rather than being part of the political union. Thus those
who insist that we stay in, or that we integrate further, are those who are
abnormal. And yes, of course we have credible people in the party, you can look
at the list of 68 people plus myself who are standing in the election on
Thursday for evidence of that.

What can you do about the fact that whatever your own views, your party is bound
to attract xenophobes?

WILLIAM SCANNELL

Exeter, DEVON

Phobia means fear and I seriously doubt we attract anyone at all who fears
foreigners. We're against a specific political structure, the European Union,
remember, not worrying that someone might be putting that awful foreign garlic
into our roast beef.

Does it upset you that some people put you on the same continuum as the British
National Party?

MATILDA SCURR

Ascot, BERKSHIRE

The same continuum, no, for that just means a range or progression. All
political parties are on the same continuum. I would be upset if someone said
that we were in the same place on that continuum as the racists and thugs of the
BNP but then that's too ridiculous a thing for anyone to try to essay as a
serious suggestion.

If you could recruit one member of another party, who would it be?

ROBERT PACK

High Wycombe, BUCKINGHAMSHIRE

Ian Botham, a huge hero to both my and my children's generation.

What is Stuart Wheeler like? Did you mind him saying he would still vote
Conservative?

PIA MARKS

Chesterfield, DERBYSHIRE

I like Stuart very much and admire his courage immensely. To be thrown out of a
party you've contributed so much to, as he has in the past to the Tories, simply
because you follow your conscience must be painful. As to his intention to vote
Conservative in a Westminster election: there's still time to convince him
otherwise.

When did you last see Robert Kilroy-Silk? How do you feel about him now?

JENNA FYSH

Devizes, WILTSHIRE

I really can't remember the last time I saw him: we ran a competition asking
anyone who'd seen him either in his constituency or the parliament to contact us
and we had no entries. As to feelings, I don't waste my emotions on him.

Have you ever seen a straight banana, and if so do you blame the EU?

DEAN IRWIN

Wolverhampton

Yes and no. The argument about bananas is that, yes, having agreed standards is
just fine. But it should be the growers, wholesalers and retailers that decide
what is a grade I, grade II and so on. If someone then wants to sell bananas
that are not graded, are not part of such a system, well, good luck to them. The
consumers can see what they're getting and then make up their own minds. Under
the EU system it is now a criminal offence, punishable by up to 6 months in
jail, to sell a banana of "excessive curvature". Yes, it's all very jolly
shouting "bendy bananas" at each other, but of those two systems, seriously,
which do you think is the insane one?

I'm going to Brussels on holiday. Do you think I will have a good time?

ALICE DAWES

London

You very much might. The beers and food can be absolutely excellent. Moules
frites is a feast fit for the gods and for some strange reason Belgian chips are
the finest in the world. However, any consideration of politics while you are
there would spoil anyone's holiday.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

...while Ukip surfs the rising tide of protest down South votes;
Nigel Farage's party lost two of its MEPs to scandal, but it doesn't seem to
matter in the stockbroker belt, Andy McSmith reports from the stockbroker belt s

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 927 words


NIGEL FARAGE looks every bit as eccentric as you would expect the leader of the
UK Independence Party to be.

Dressed in a dark pinstripe suit on a balmy day on Caterham High Street, in the
heart of the Surrey stockbroker belt, Mr Farage bounces down the street touting
for votes.

But this energetic, extroverted man has gone a long way towards clearing out the
racism and nastiness that lurked on the fingers of UKIP, when The Independent
appropriately described its members as "the BNP in blazers".

Mr Farage thinks that phrase did more damage to his party than any other, even
more than David Cameron's famous outburst, when he described UKIP's members as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly".

Others misfortunes have beset UKIP since their spectacular success in the
European elections five years ago, when they secured 12 seats in the European
Parliament. They have parted company with three of their 12 MEPs, for different
reasons. The best known, Robert Kilroy Silk, was not a team-player and set up a
rival organisation. Ashley Mote was jailed for nine months for benefit fraud. He
has lodged an appeal. And Tom Wise has been charged with fraud and false
accounting.

Not long ago, it seemed that internal rifts and assorted scandals had almost
finished UKIP, but now it is back, with one weekend poll suggesting it could
beat Labour in the election on Thursday. This revival owes much to Mr Farage's
reassuring brand of quintessential middle-class Englishness.

His father was a well-known character in the Stock Exchange, one of the last of
that breed who went to work daily in a pinstriped suit with a rolled-up brolly
and bowler hat. The only reason Mr Farage did not follow him into the City was
that he did not want to live in his father's shadow, so he made his pile in the
more congenial and noisier London Metal Exchange.

He is as extroverted as his father must have been. One year, when Barbados was
hosting the Test series, Farage descended on the islands, kitted out with pith
helmet to spend five days sitting among the islanders, drinking and absorbing
the day's play, looking - to quote his own description of himself - "like the
captain of the Barmy Army".

Mr Farage has said time and again that UKIP will not tolerate racists in its
ranks. He never utters a word that sounds aggressive or threatening and proudly
boasts that UKIP now has candidates and volunteers from the ethnic minorities.
He leads a party which would pull up the drawbridges, ban foreigners from
entering the country and make sure that foreign politicians from Brussels or
anyone else on the Continent can no longer make laws that apply in the UK - but
it would do it all in the politest possible way.

His message is what a lot of the shoppers in Caterham wanted to hear.

"I was for UKIP right at the very start, but then I wavered," said Mary
Trowbridge. "There was something I didn't quite like on the fringes. Extremists,
I think I'd call them. They were using the cause for their own ends." Now she
believes those extremists have been seen off and is returning to UKIP.

Dave Makiah, who met Mr Farage in the street, is a retired, Labour-voting NHS
nurse who immigrated from Mauritius in the 1970s. He would "certainly" vote UKIP
.

Mr Farage said: "A lot of ethnic voters are very positive about our immigration
message. They are the ones who sense that vast numbers of Poles and other East
Europeans coming are unsettling for race relations. I don't think anybody
believes there is a racist message in UKIP."

In the two hours he spent approaching shoppers, Mr Farage came upon people who
identified themselves as having been Conservative, Labour, Liberal Democrat or
BNP in the past, but who were all switching to UKIP.

One woman said she had planned to vote BNP but was switching to UKIP, apparently
because they give voice to her prejudices in more acceptable language. Another,
who gave her name but asked for it not to be used, said she was a Liberal
Democrat voter "through and through" said that she was "seriously considering"
voting UKIP.

Audrey Hoy, another switcher to UKIP, said: "I've voted Labour all my life, and
I'm 81, but I'm fed up with what's going in the country. There are no jobs."
Rosalind Chute, from Croydon, is a decorator who normally votes Tory. "We have
traditions that make this country special, and they are all being swept aside. I
feel that no one is supporting the English, or England as we lose all our laws
to Europe," she said. "Not David Cameron - he just wants to be pals, 'call me
Dave.' I'm English and I'm proud to be English. Let's keep the country as it
is."

Mr Farage also approached a white-haired man in a pinstripe suit every bit as
smart as Mr Farage's. He was Peregrine Lavington, a Conservative parish
councillor. Despite their party differences, the two men quickly found things on
which they could agree - the money wasted by Brussels, how difficult it is to
discuss immigration as a political issue without being accused of racism, and so
on. Though he did not persuade the councillor to switch votes, Mr Farage made a
good impression.

"I am a loyal Conservative voter, but it's quite clear that [Farage] is going to
benefit from the public disillusionment," Mr Lavington said.

A loyal Labour voter told Mr Farage "If you don't do well now, you'll never do
well", and Mr Farage agreed. So do the opinion polls. When the votes are
counted, one story to emerge will doubtless be the resurgence of UKIP. Mr Farage
has made his party a safe repository for a certain kind of protest vote.

Nigel Farage

You ask the questions

page 30

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

This election should be about Europe, not MPs' expenses;
LEADING ARTICLE It would be regrettable if the public cast their ballots solely
out of anger

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 777 words


This really ought to be Europe's moment. The great issues of the day, from the
financial crisis, to energy security, to climate change are all, to a
significant degree, European issues. The banking meltdown did not respect
national boundaries. Nor will the effects of global warming. And those who doubt
Europe's economic interconnectedness should pay heed to the meltdown of General
Motors. The auto giant's European arm owns car plants from Cheshire to Hungary
and employs tens of thousands of workers. We all have an interest in the manner
in which this corporate behemoth breaks up.

It makes every sense to tackle such challenges through close co-operation with
our European peers. On the world stage, Europe's influence is growing too. In
Barack Obama, America has an avowedly multi-lateralist President, keen for
Europe to relieve the US of some of its duties as the world's policeman.

For the European Union this is a golden opportunity. And for the 375 million
electors of Europe, this week's European Parliamentary elections are an
important chance to shape the direction and priorities of the EU. The European
Parliament may wield less direct power than its national counterparts, but as
the primary voice in Brussels of the European citizenry, it certainly matters.

Yet the British electorate is showing depressingly little interest in the
European nature of these elections. The focus of the debate has been on
Westminster, not Brussels. It is true the British public has always had a
tendency to use European elections to kick whichever party is in power in
Westminster. European manifestos have never been closely studied documents. But
this year the tendency to vote out of protest is likely to be especially
pronounced thanks to the public's volcanic anger over the Westminster expenses
scandal.

And it is not only the Government which is in for a pummelling on Thursday. The
polls suggest that all three of the main parties are likely to see their vote
squeezed, with fringe parties such as the UK Independence Party and the British
National Party enjoying a spike in their support. It has even been suggested
that UKIP might grab the second largest share of the vote.

The public's anger over the manner in which MPs have been greedily maximising
their allowances is understandable. But it would be deeply regrettable if people
went into the polling booths on Thursday intent solely on demonstrating their
anger over MPs expenses. For one thing this would be to waste an opportunity to
influence European decision-making on a host of crucial issues, from EU
enlargement to environmental regulation. For another, it is all very well to
protest against the major parties but it also matters who benefits from votes of
disaffection.

A vote for the BNP would do nothing but put wind in the sails of a party with
nothing to offer but vicious bigotry. As for UKIP, it would make no sense to
punish the perceived venality of the mainstream parties by voting for a party
which has experienced its own well-documented financial scandals in recent
years. And UKIP's policies are no more credible than its claims to the moral
high ground. All the party offers is isolation and increasing irrelevance for
Britain internationally.

When it comes to the mainstream parties, they are a rather mixed bag on Europe.
The Conservatives might not go as far as UKIP in terms of seeking to remove
Britain from the European mainstream, but David Cameron's efforts to pull his
MEPs out of the centre-right bloc of the European Parliament, reflect the
Tories' stubborn unwillingness to work within the existing structures and
alliances of the European Union. Mr Cameron has proved himself an admirable
reformer of his party in several respects, but when it comes to Europe he is
still worryingly content to pander to its most regressive instincts.

Labour, to its credit, has pushed from within the European Parliament for the
economic liberalisation that the EU requires to increase the prosperity of all,
despite the protectionist instincts of many of its colleagues in the social
democratic bloc of Brussels. But it is the Liberal Democrats who have been the
most consistently constructive British party on the European Union, a stance
which has given their honest criticisms of Brussels' shortcomings all the more
credibility.

Yet party considerations aside, the imperative this week is participation.
Decisions taken in the cockpit of European democracy will affect all our lives.
We hope that Britons will be able briefly to raise their eyes this week from the
row over MPs' expenses and cast their vote with some of the grave challenges
facing us all, as Europeans, in mind.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                 2 Star Edition

PM WARNED OF STALKING HORSE RIVAL

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 332 words


GORDON Brown was warned yesterday he could face a "stalking horse" leadership
challenge if Labour is trounced in local and European polls on Thursday.

One senior figure said pressure will "ratchet" up on the PM if Labour slips to
third or fourth place.

He added: "There is no person in the Cabinet ready to do the damage, it needs a
stalking horse. But we are running out of time."

But Mr Brown yesterday insisted he was staying put, saying only he had the
experience and leadership to steer Labour to the general election.

But polls show Mr Brown is on course for a battering, with one survey putting
Labour behind the UK Independence Party. ICM sees it trailing the Lib Dems for
the first time in 22 years. Just 22 per cent said they would vote Labour, with
25 per cent for the Lib Dems and 40 per cent for the Tories.

Labour MPs are now wrestling with the choice of trying to kick out Mr Brown
before the general election or soldiering on with him to a possibly huge defeat.
Alan Johnson remains favourite to take over.

The Health Secretary was yesterday praised by former Tory Cabinet Minister
Michael Portillo as the one person who could beat David Cameron.

He wrote: "At a time when the public feels there is a privileged 'them' [bankers
and MPs] and a powerless 'us', Johnson is the man to suit its mood."

Asked if he would step aside Mr Brown said: "No, because I am dealing with the
issues at hand. I am dealing with the economy every day.

"I am also dealing with these constitutional issues. I am leading a debate on
that but it has got to be thought through. It cannot be gimmicks."

He told the BBC's Andrew Marr show: "People are voting on a party and a leader
that is determined to clean up this system, and they are voting on a leader who
has got the experience, who has taken people through economic difficulties
before."

A reshuffle in the next few weeks is expected to see International Development
Secretary Douglas Alexander given a key role supporting Mr Brown.

PM warns on BNP: Page 23

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAYING PUT Brown on TV yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 343 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

Britain - PM: I'm not ready to stand down;
Gordon Brown defiant despite government's dismal ratings

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 363 words


Gordon Brown has stated that he would reject any calls for his resignation from
within the Labour Party amid speculation that a possible leadership challenge
may be imminent and a predicted battering at the polls this week.

A survey at the weekend puts Labour in third place behind the Tories and the Lib
Dems for the first time in 22 years.

But when asked yesterday on the BBC1 Andrew Marr show whether he would stand
aside if Cabinet members said that it would help Labour's chances at a general
election, Mr Brown replied: "No, because I am dealing with the issues at hand. I
am dealing with the economy every day."

Asked whether his party was facing a humiliating defeat at the ballot box, Mr
Brown replied: "Let's look at what's happening around us. We have got an
economic crisis. We are dealing with this.

"I believe that when people see the action that we have taken and the results
that have come from it, people will see that this is a government that has acted
faster than other governments and has taken action that is necessary."

Another poll has suggested that Labour could finish behind the UK Independence
Party in Thursday's Euro poll as it bears the brunt of public fury over MPs'
expenses.

He acknowledged that voters were angry about seeing public money "wasted" on
their MPs during a time of recession but urged them not to support parties which
were intent on withdrawing from Europe.

"Our economic recovery depends on being part of Europe," the Prime Minister
said.

Climate Change Secretary Ed Miliband said Mr Brown remained the best leader to
take the party into the next general election and predicted Labour would "bounce
back".

"I think Gordon Brown will stay on as our leader," he said. "I think it is right
that he stays as our leader because yes we have to sort out expenses, yes I
think there is an opportunity for political reform here but also we've got to
get back to the issues that most affect people's lives like the economy.

"The question of the election will be: Have we made the right decisions to get
Britain out of recession, and I think we have; and who's got the economic vision
for the future - and I think we have."

paddym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Up to you to send this mob packing

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 619 words


YOU want a general election? You want Gordon Brown out?

The answer, according to all those angry letters and emails pouring into The
Sun, is a resounding YES!

Well, now's your chance. The way you vote - or don't vote - on Thursday will
decide the fate of this failed Prime Minister and the timing of the General
Election.

It will determine whether we have a clean break and a fresh start - or another
disastrous year of scandal and economic paralysis.

This is not just about greedy politicians. It is about the failure to govern -
the unwillingness to address the crises of unemployment, immigration, crime,
MRSA - and a TRILLION Pounds of unaffordable debt.

Another 12 months of hard Labour is an intolerable prospect for most voters.

This week offers "the little people" a rare chance to do something about it.

So it's up to you and me. We don't have to put up with this wasteful,
incompetent, blundering Government any longer.

All we have to do is turn out and vote ABL - "Anything But Labour".

The beauty of it is that you don't even need to vote at all.

If you are a jaded but loyal Labour supporter, sitting on your backside is a
form of protest, too. But as this newspaper argues today, the best way to get
your message home - at least on Europe - is by using your ballot paper and
voting Tory.

Gordon Brown betrayed us all by promising a referendum on the hated EU
Constitution - then reneging on that promise.

Why? Because he knew Britain would follow Ireland with an overwhelming NO vote,
putting the skids under totalitarian EU rule.

Mood

David Cameron has, at least, promised to give the British people a say for the
first time since we joined the Common Market.

If you can't bring yourself to vote Conservative, there are plenty of other
options - even the Lib Dems, if you must.

But remember, Nick Clegg is a former EU bureaucrat and the last person to raise
a finger to clean up Brussels.

The mood of voters is mark souring fast against the European Union - and not
just in Britain.

That's why UKIP is scoring heavily with its pledge to pull out of Europe
immediately.

to who A better bet is Libertas, the new party that sensationally humiliated
established political parties in Ireland last year. In a brilliant campaign,
backed by The Sun, Libertas turned a near-certain YES into a bombshell NO on the
Constitution.

But whichever way you vote - as long as it's not the BNP - the object must be to
give Labour a bloody nose.

And you will have the satisfaction of knowing it's for their own good.

Petrified Labour MPs need you to show just how angry you are with this useless
Government.

A lethal cocktail of fear and loathing - fear of unemployment and loathing of
greedy politicians - may see them joining the same dole queue as their
constituents.

They hope the Labour Party is not as unpopular as the Labour Prime Minister
himself.

A new leader - cheery Alan Johnson - might transform the party's image and save
a few MPs from the cull. This stark choice is building a head of steam as MPs
return today from holiday.

Mr Brown is likely to defend himself with a bombshell reshuffle. But it is hard
to see who he can safely sack or promote.

If he puts divisive Ed Balls in the Treasury he might as well take the fabled
pearlhandled revolver and blow his own brains out.

The moment of crisis arrives on Friday morning as Labour's meltdown hits home.

Cabinet ministers who might have wielded the knife are petrified of another
bungled coup.

But it is worth remem-berinthat it is less than a month since brave Labour
backbenchers toppled Speaker Michael Martin.

It needs only another Commons outburst by a few respected mavericks on Friday to
send Mr Brown packing.

For Gordon Brown, the war could soon be over.

It's up to you, folks.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Cameron: I'll publish EU chief's expenses;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 293 words


BRITAIN'S EU Commissioner would have to publish expense claims for the first
time under a Tory government.

David Cameron said Britain's highest-ranking representative abroad would have to
register hospitality worth £250 or above. The £200,000-a-year official would
also have to declare gifts.

Mr Cameron said all Tory MEPs will in future have to publish details of their
financial affairs.

Currently, MEPs can claim up to £360,000-a-year with no receipts.

Many claim £44,000 a year to rent an office but use a room in their home and
pocket the cash.

Speaking ahead of Thursday's Euro elections, Mr Cameron said the costs to UK
taxpayers of EU membership - expected to be £8billion next year - would also be
revealed annually. He also repeated his vow to hold a referendum on the hated
Lisbon Treaty if he becomes PM.

He said: "If you vote Conservative you are voting to put pressure on the
Government to hold that referendum on the European constitution that Labour
promised and haven't delivered.

"You are voting to send people to Brussels that will stand up for British
farmers, keep regulation down on British business, cut out waste and red tape in
Brussels.

"I am committed to our membership of the European Union but I am sceptical about
giving it any further power. In fact I would like some of the powers to be taken
back."

The Tories are hoping to increase their MEP numbers from 27 at the Euro
election. Labour have 19 while UKIP and the Lib Dems are both on 12.

Meanwhile, Mr Cameron last night agreed to repay any cash if he is found to have
failed his own expenses test over his mortgages.

He admitted paying off a mortgage with his own cash shortly after taking out
another funded by the taxpayer, but said he had not cost taxpayers any more.

THE SUN SAYS Page8

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vow . . Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

A clear loser, but who will be the real winners?;
The polls tell us Labour will do badly on Thursday. Gordon Brown will have to
say something, even if it's only 'Goodbye'

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 975 words


The mystery is what will happen to the Liberal Democrats on Thursday. Over the
past weekend two public opinion polls were published. They gave similar
responses for the two main parties, but very different results for the Lib Dems
and the smaller parties. The difference is too large to be accounted for by the
normal margin of error of polling. It cannot be accounted for by any difference
in timing. Both polls were conducted on May 27 and 28, both were telephone polls
of just over 1,000 people.

On Saturday The Times published a Populus poll, which gave the Conservatives 41
per cent, Labour 21, the Liberal Democrats 15 and other parties 23, of which
eight went to UKIP. Yesterday The Sunday Telegraph published an ICM poll that
gave the Conservatives 40 per cent, the Lib Dems 25, Labour 22 and other parties
13 per cent. These figures are those of a general poll, but separate polls were
conducted for the European elections, to be held next Thursday. If one takes
these two polls, they confirm each other, except in two respects. In both polls
the Conservatives are in the lead by a wide margin. In both, Labour is doing
very badly.

The large difference comes in support for the Lib Dems and the smaller parties.
ICM gives the Lib Dems 10 per cent more support and the smaller parties 10 per
cent less support than Populus.

This difference is particularly significant because ICM is the first poll to put
Lib Dem support ahead of Labour since a Gallup poll taken in May 1987,
immediately before the 1987 general election; the general election was won
comfortably by the Conservatives under Margaret Thatcher. If the ICM figures
were repeated at a general election the Lib Dems would have overtaken Labour in
votes, though not in seats.

Each pollster also published a poll on the European election. Their polls show a
similar pattern of agreement and conflict, with close agreement on the support
for the Conservatives and Labour, but a wide variant on the Lib Dems. ICM puts
the Lib Dems in second place to the Conservatives in their European poll, with
20 per cent support; Populus puts the Lib Dems fourth, with only 12 per cent.
Again Populus finds much more support for the smaller parties than does ICM.
Populus gives the smaller parties a total of 41 per cent, while ICM gives them
34.

Part of the difference may arise from a change in methodology of the Populus
poll. In these polls, respondents were for the first time given the names of the
smaller parties in the main "prompt" list by Populus; the respondents had,
therefore, been reminded of the existence of those parties. Most voters do not
follow politics very closely between elections, or between scandals. People
cannot be expected to say they will vote for UKIP if they do not know that UKIP
exists.

The main parties, including the Lib Dems, start an election with the votes of
loyalists who know the party well. A "prompt" can remind people that they have
the option to vote for a range of smaller parties. This is not unrealistic in
polling terms, though a general election will be the biggest prompt of all.

The decline in Labour support has put the Lib Dems into second place in the ICM
poll. That looks very good, but the actual figures are more worrying for the Lib
Dems, particularly when one takes the two polls together. No doubt the ICM poll
showing 25 per cent for the Lib Dems will be much quoted by its speakers, and
reasonably so.

But they will be aware that the mention of alternative parties reduced their
support by 40 per cent. In the European poll, ICM recorded a similarly sharp
fall of 30 per cent. In neither poll does the reminder of the names of smaller
parties have any significant effect on Conservative or Labour preferences. It
looks as though the Lib Dems have a soft vote.

The Lib Dems may be relying on voters who want to make a protest, but such votes
are vulnerable to the appeal of other protest groups. Lib Dems are not seen as a
party of government. When the general election comes, whether in the autumn or
2010, voters may see the Lib Dems as the biggest of the protest groups, not as a
party able to form a government. Indeed, if the Lib Dems cannot do well in the
present atmosphere, when the whole national mood is one of protest, they cannot
expect to do well when the general election does come.

One can never safely make assumptions about the impact of future events.
Thursday's European and local elections may, or may not, follow the predictions
of the opinion polls. They may justify the methods used by Populus, including
the prompts, or the methods of ICM.

They may produce good results for the Lib Dems, and create a new enthusiasm for
the Lib Dem Party, or they may strengthen UKIP, the Greens, the Nationalists and
- heaven forbid - the BNP.

The winners are not easy to predict, but the loser is obvious. Whether the votes
go to the Lib Dems or to the smaller parties, the polls are agreed that the
loser will be Labour. It is taking the blame for expenses.

Indeed, Labour may have already passed the point at which recovery is possible.
Yesterday Gordon Brown was outlining a new constitutional programme to Andrew
Marr. But Labour has already been in office for 12 years. Does Labour, or the
Prime Minister himself, still have the authority or energy to carry through such
a programme, which would have been a huge effort for the Government even in its
younger days? Will any voter on Thursday change a vote because new
constitutional reforms are proposed by an old government? More to the point,
will Labour change its leader? Will a new leader have to call an early election?
Can Labour find a way to recover? These questions cannot be answered yet. They
may get an answer from Thursday's votes. Gordon Brown will have to say
something, even if it is only "Goodbye".

A 'prompt' may remind people that they can vote for smaller parties

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

No power, no influence, no need for fear;
The BNP will go the way of all small parties after a good European showing. It
will implode

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 939 words


By this time next week the fascist boot-boys will be marching up Whitehall. The
British National Party, its support emboldened by the scandal of MPs' expenses,
will have won seats in the European Parliament, and be on its way into tricking
the British public, like the Germans in 1933, into voting for fascists in a
general election, too.

You don't believe it? No, neither do I. I can quite understand why the main
parties, deeply unpopular and embroiled in scandal, should want to up the
rhetoric against the BNP - with David Cameron last week describing them as "Nazi
thugs". But I am struggling to be frightened by Nick Griffin and his pals. Much
as I detest the BNP, it is doomed to reach its zenith next Thursday, whereupon
it will implode.

Yes, the BNP is likely to have a good European election. Distrust of politicians
is at its peak. The BNP is successfully manipulating the situation by sending
its canvassers out on to the streets to emphasise local issues. It has
reportedly even won support from some black voters prepared to overlook that
they would be banned from joining the BNP owing to the colour of their skin.

But what would a good showing for the BNP really mean? Even on the hooves of the
current crisis it is unlikely to win more than one seat, possibly none at all.
But let's assume the worst and it wins three. What happens then? Nick Griffin
and two of his colleagues go off to Strasbourg - where they will exercise no
power whatsoever.

How much influence do the French National Front's seven MEPs wield in the
European Parliament? Or the five MEPs sent to Strasbourg by the anti-Semitic,
anti-Muslim and anti-Gypsy Greater Romania Party? Or the three MEPs of Vlaams
Belang, the Flemish Interest Party - motto: "Our own people first"? I bet you
have never even heard of the latter two. The BNP's three members will be lost
among the 20 Far-Right MEPs who already sit in the 785-strong Parliament. Like
the rest, they will be deliberately isolated - in a Parliament that in any case
wields little real power.

What we should be worrying about is the impotence of the European Parliament,
not the racist views of a few of its incumbents. Next week, a quarter of a
billion Europeans will march into polling booths in the pretence that they are
engaging in democracy, when as we know the real decisions are made behind closed
doors by bureaucrats at the European Commission, aided by a myriad of lobbyists
and the odd input from ministers from national governments.

It is precisely because we know the European Parliament is an impotent,
pretend-legislature that so many of us are prepared to use it to register a
protest vote. But a fat lot of good it does the recipients of those protest
votes. Remember the Greens in 1989 or UKIP in 2005? The Greens, in particular.
created a political earthquake by polling 15 per cent of the vote. Yet they
quickly descended into in-fighting and sank as quickly as they rose: 20 years on
they are still as far as ever from winning a seat at Westminster.

That is what tends to happen to parties who do well in the European elections:
their apparent popularity leads to hubris, civil war and swift collapse. Even
the Conservatives fell for the curse in 1999 when they polled more votes than
Labour. Yet two years later they received as big a thumping in the 2001 general
election as they had done in 1997. They had no chance of winning in 2001 anyway,
but William Hague's reaction to the "victory" of 1999 certainly did not help:
success led him to turn away from his modernising agenda and produce a Little
England manifesto based around the issues that had played well on the doorsteps
in the European Elections: asylum seekers, and EU farming and fisheries
policies.

The same happened to the far-right parties in the European Parliament. In 2007,
after the admission of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU, they got together to form
the 23-MEP strong far-right grouping "Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty". Great
warnings were issued about the march of the far Right. But the group lasted only
ten months before the Greater Romania Party withdrew and caused its collapse.

A significant advance next week will have a similar debilitating effect on the
electoral chances of the BNP. A faint whiff of power will lead the party to
fracture between the likes of Nick Griffin, who carefully dresses up his racism
in suits and eschews talk of white supremacy in favour of guarded references to
the "indigenous population", and the outright thugs. It will split between those
who want to stay inside the law and those who do not.

The point about the BNP is that it can only exist as a protest party. If its
policies were ever to be exposed to the same scrutiny as that given to the
policies of the main parties it would collapse under its own contradictions.
Does anyone really believe, as the BNP's policies declare, that Britain would
"strengthen its defences" by withdrawing from Nato and ejecting US bases from
British soil? Or that a fantastical BNP government could "end conflict in
Northern Ireland" by inviting the Irish Republic and Ulster to become "equal
partners in a federation of the nations of the British Isles".

Something tells me that the BNP hasn't canvassed opinions very carefully on the
Falls Road, let alone the Shankill.

That is the way to defeat the BNP. Don't bark "Nazi thugs" at it. That is where
it wants to be: in a corner, were the anti-Establishment vote can coalesce.
Treat it like any other party. Get Nick Griffin into the Newsnight studio to
explain all his policies. He won't last five minutes.

Get Nick Griffin to talk policy on Newsnight. He won't last five minutes

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Greens on a bus enjoying view from the top deck

BYLINE: Fran Yeoman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 465 words


"Good afternoon Reading," blared a voice from a Routemaster bus trundling into
town powered by recycled cooking oil. "This is the Green Party and we're here to
remind you that the European elections are on June 4."

Two young men in suits looked vaguely amused. The voice, that of Keith Taylor,
would-be MEP for the South East, proceeded to tell them that voting Green would
symbolise "a vote for better healthcare, protecting public services". In this
time of recession, the Greens are keen to show they are about more than
high-minded eco-ideals.

On the top deck was Caroline Lucas, a Green MEP for the region and the party's
first national leader. Before boarding the bus, she had got up early to do the
BBC's Breakfast and Today programmes, appearances arranged for the launch of the
Greens' local election campaign, but after the expenses scandal she ended up
discussing "the whole political system" and how it can be changed.

Westminster's woes, for the Greens, offer a rare chance. Electoral reform, a
long-cherished ambition, is on the mainstream agenda, at least for now.

"It's a very welcome opportunity to get into the debates," said Dr Lucas. With
the three main parties all tarred with the expenses brush, a record 34 per cent
of people told a recent YouGov survey that they would con-sidevoting Green.
There is cautious talk of 1989, when 2.2 million backed the party in the
European election.

Twenty years later "there's a lot of anger but it's not just protest votes", Dr
Lucas insists. But if protest votes get her and Mr Taylor elected in the South
East, save the Greens' seat in London and help them to claim two more, in the
North West and East, few in the party will complain.

The challenge is to ensure that an angry electorate votes Green rather than
sitting at home or voting UKIP or BNP. The last of these in particular is a
"real worry" for Dr Lucas. In the North West, where it seems that the Greens are
in a two-way battle for the last European seat with the BNP, Respect has stood
aside in the hope of denying its leader Nick Griffin victory. At Newbury market,
where the bus pulled up before heading on to Reading, it is UKIP that had found
favour.

"I'm sick of the EU," said a woman in sandals who would give her name only as
Jane. Ms Lucas will not be getting her vote on June 4. At a coffee morning in
the town hall, there were reasons for Dr Lucas to be cheerful. "I drink green
tea and my favourite colour's green and I might vote green," said James, 64,
from north Hampshire. "The economy's in, shall we say, quite a state, and I
think it's a great opportunity to bring the green agenda to the fore. There are
a number of green technologies waiting in the wings and we can bring those
forward and also employ people."

Caroline Lucas is benefiting from the expenses row

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 343 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Candidates running scared, angry voters: it's looking good for the smaller
parties;
High turnout expected in Thursday's elections

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1186 words


The smaller parties look set to benefit from a high turnout in Thursday's
elections, with people keen to express their anger by casting a protest vote.

The European and council elections, both taking place on June 4, have been
overshadowed completely by the MPs' expenses debacle and canvassing is much
reduced as activists are unwilling to face irate voters.

But contrary to recent predictions of a dismal turnout, the latest Populus poll
for The Times suggests that 41 per cent of the electorate intend to vote on
Thursday, which would be highest turnout for a European Parliament election in
three decades.

Turnout in the European polls - which tends to be substantially lower than that
in general elections - has ranged from the low 30s up to 38 per cent, in 2004.

But the Populus findings suggest that the disclosures over the past three weeks
about MPs' expenses have galvanised popular sentiment. A similar poll conducted
by Populus early last month suggested that only 34 per cent of people intended
to vote.

"Intention to vote has been a good indicator of the actual number voting in
previous years," Rick Nye, of Populus, said yesterday.

Anecdotal evidence also suggests that postal votes, about a third of which have
already been returned, are slightly up on previous years.

Local councillors and MEP candidates have been tarred with the same brush as
Westminster MPs - and many have told The Times that they hardly dare go
canvassing. Although residents have said that in the council elections they will
vote on local issues and for the main parties, many have said that they will use
a protest vote for a minor party in the elections for the European Parliament.

With the UK Independence Party, the British National Party and the Greens set to
increase their share of the vote in the European elections, it is possible that,
on a turnout of 41 per cent, the two main parties combined will have the votes
of less than a fifth of the electorate.

Findings this weekend suggest that Labour is heading for a meltdown in both sets
of elections. The party risks losing all the remaining county councils in its
control, as well as seeing much of its activist base in the South disappear and
losing several MEPs.

Although all main parties have been hit by the expenses scandal, Labour has
borne the brunt, while the Tories are unexpectedly faring less badly than the
Liberal Democrats.

The findings back hunches at local level that UKIP, which did remarkably well in
the 2004 European elections, will do even better this time and could add several
seats to the 12 it gained five years ago.

The BNP, which has no MEPs currently, has been saying that it will win six seats
in the European elections but pundits suggest that it will probably capture only
one, in the North West, where Nick Griffin, the party leader, is standing.

The Greens, who are also doing well in the polls, could pick up a couple of
seats, possibly in the East, the North West or the South East.

The Conservatives are predicted to pick up three or four seats on top of the 27
they hold and Labour, which now has 19, could lose up to six.

The Liberal Democrats will find it hard to cling on to the 12 they have and
could end up with fewer MEPs than UKIP.

The overall number of Britsh seats in the European Parliament is down from 78 to
72 because of changes across the European Union.

In the council elections, Labour looks set to lose more than 200 seats - it is
defending 493 - while the Tories are likely to gain at least 200. The Liberal
Democrats, always hard to predict, could win or lose 50.

UKIP, the Greens and the BNP may also pick up a smattering of extra councillors.
This year the BNP is fielding candidates for all 75 of the seats being contested
in Essex.

David Cameron is pinning his hopes on his party taking control of at least three
of the four remaining county councils under Labour control. The Conservatives
are now almost certain to take Staffordshire, Nottinghamshire and Lancashire.
Labour is set to lose Derbyshire and the Tories could conceivably get the 12 per
cent swing needed to take that council.

A number of county councils in the South, including Surrey, Buckinghamshire,
Cornwall, and Dorset, and North Yorkshire, could lose all their Labour
councillors.

If the Liberal Democrats have a bad night they could lose one or two of the
three counties they hold in the South West - Cornwall, Devon and Somerset.

Thursday's local elections will cover 27 county councils plus seven unitary
authorities many of which have been recently restructured. The seven are
Bedford, Central Bedfordshire, Bristol, Wiltshire, Cornwall, Shropshire and the
Isle of Wight. Town hall mayors will face re-election in Hartlepool, Doncaster
and North Tyneside. No council elections are being held in London. William
Rees-Mogg, page 23

The battlegrounds Europe, prime targets for a protest vote Targeted by ... How
they stand Total number of seats 2009 72 Scotland 2004 result: C 2, Lab 2, SNP
2, LD 1 2009 seats: 6 (minus one) North East 2004: C 1, Lab 1, LD 1 2009 seats:
3 (no change) Northern Ireland 2004: DUP 1, SF 1, UUP 1 North West 2004: C 3,
Lab 3, LD 2, UKIP 1 2009 seats: 8 (minus 1) Yorkshire & the Humber 2004: C 2,
Lab 2, LD 1, UKIP 1 2009 seats: 6 (no change) East Midlands 2004: C 2, UKIP 2,
Lab 1, LD 1 2009 seats: 5 (minus 1) West Midlands 2004: C 3, Lab 2, UKIP 1, LD 1
2009 seats: 6 (minus 1) Wales 2004: Lab 2, PC 1, C 1 2009 seats: 4 (same)
Eastern 2004: C 3, UKIP 2, Lab 1, LD 1 2009 seats: 7 (no change) South West
2004: C 3, UKIP 2, Lab 1, LD 1 2009 seats: 6 (minus 1) London 2004: C 3, Lab 3,
LD 1, UKIP 1, Green 1 2009 seats: 8 (minus 1) South East 2004: C 4, UKIP 2, LD
2, Lab 1, Green 1 2009 seats: 10 (same) 2004 share of the vote Other 4.6% SSP
0.4% Conservative 26.7% Plaid Cymru 1% SNP 1.4% Respect 1.5% Labour 22.6% BNP
4.9% Green 6.3% Lib Dem 14.9% UKIP 16.1% Ten councils to watch Cumbria CC
Derbyshire CC Controlled Targeted Controlled Targeted Tories only need a 4 per
cent swing to topple the Labour minority administration Labour's safest county
needs a 5 per cent swing to go blue Nottinghamshire CC Lancashire CC Controlled
Targeted Controlled Targeted A 5 per cent swing would give the Tories control
Labour since 1981, the Tories need a 7 per cent swing to take control
Staffordshire CC Controlled Targeted A 1 per cent swing will throw the council
to no overall control; 3 per cent and the Conservatives take power Warwickshire
CC Bristol City Council Controlled Targeted Controlled Targeted Liberal
Democrats have an outside chance. Tories need good showing to challenge for
Bristol North West in general election In 2005 the Conservatives were the
largest party and need only five gains across the shire to take control of the
council Somerset CC Controlled Targeted The Liberal Democrats have just one seat
defending their control here Devon CC Cornwall Council Controlled Targeted
Recent local controversies over unitary authorities may test the strength of
this council Controlled Targeted This could be much closer than 2005 after
boundary changes. Tories will field candidate in every seat for the first time

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
