
                               1 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

New law may give asylum to 22,500 refugees

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 454  words


THOUSANDS more asylum seekers will be given the right to live, work and claim
benefits in Britain.

Controversial plans will require the UK to accept one in eight of all migrants
who set foot in any of the 27 European Union countries and demand refugee
status.

It could mean an estimated 22,500 more people coming to Britain.

Taxpayers will be expected to foot the bill for their food, accommodation and
clothing, plus legal fees while they apply for international protection.

Asylum seekers must also be given the right to work within six months of their
arrival, enabling them to claim thousands of pounds in benefits if they cannot
find a job. Their children must also be found school places.

Migrants can only be detained as a last resort and must not be held in secure
accommodation more than 72 hours without a judge's approval.

The proposals, supported by Labour MEPs, are part of the EU's Common European
Asylum System and will be put to the European Parliament in Strasbourg for
approval.

Last night Conservative MEP Philip Bradbourn said: "Economic migrants posing as
asylum seekers would have an easy ride under these plans.

"Once again, the EU thinks the only answer to justified immigration concerns is
to take control of asylum policy. Controlling our borders is one of the most
important roles of government.

"For more than a decade, Labour has been unable to form a coherent immigration
policy, but that should not justify handing it to Brussels."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Brussels will soon be dictating
who has the right to live and work in Britain. The EU is pushing for a common
asylum and immigration policy but it is being pushed through without proper
thought."

EU member states will be forced to take refugees or face huge fines under the
proposals outlined on Monday.

Migrants will be rehoused from states "confronted with a large number of asylum
applications" such as Malta, Greece, Italy and Spain's Canary Islands to larger
countries such as the UK - a reversal of the rule that requires applicants to
seek sanctuary in the first safe country.

Member states would be compelled to accept a percentage of applicants in
accordance with their population.

This would mean the UK taking in 13 per cent of all refugees arriving in the EU
- or 22,500 of the 322,000 average arrivals over the last 10 years.

A Home Office spokeswoman said last night: "The UK operates a firm but fair
asylum system that is delivering faster decisions to help those who need our
protection.

"We would not agree to any proposal that limits the UK's abilities to control
our borders, which is why we have decided not to opt in to measures that propose
allowing asylum seekers to work.

"If that changes, we'll reconsider."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: We need to wake up and tackle BNP poison head on: This racist
party stands on the brink of electoral breakthrough. We must fight them as we
did the National Front in the 70s

BYLINE: Peter Hain

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 779 words


Unless the rest of us get our act together, the British National party could
easily win three seats - and quite possibly six or more - in June's European
elections. To win in the north-west it needs just 8% of the vote, barely 1.5%
more than it got in 2004 - the days of near full employment and before the
credit crunch; in the West Midlands only an extra 1.6%; and in Yorkshire and the
Humber just 4.3% more. Recently the party has won council seats in byelections,
polling - according to the BBC - an average of 14% in 60 wards: close to the
threshold necessary to get a seat in almost every European constituency in
Britain.

Electorally the BNP has become the most successful fascist party in Britain,
gaining 800,000 votes in the 2004 European elections and 238,000 votes in the
2006 local elections - up from 3,022 six years earlier. And last year it won its
first seat in the London assembly, doubling its support to 130,000 votes. And
now the BNP is looking to benefit from a collapsing Ukip vote; in 2004 the
combined BNP-Ukip vote stood at 21%.

Winning European seats would secure an unprecedented platform, and entitle the
BNP to draw hundreds of thousands of euros from Brussels indirectly to buttress
its full-time personnel and organisation. At the moment, apparently, the BNP's
sole London member has to spend much of his time building up support for the
party outside London.

It would also be able to work with other far-right and fascist parties in
Europe, as Jean-Marie Le Pen's party has done from its base in France since
winning 10 European seats in 1984.

With unemployment and job insecurity rising, some major construction sites
appearing to bar local unionised labour, and affordable housing in short supply,
there are classic conditions for the BNP's racist and fascist politics to
thrive.

Thirty years ago rising unemployment and economic decline under Labour saw the
BNP's predecessor, the National Front, also do worryingly well in elections. I
helped to found the Anti-Nazi League in 1977 to target the National Front, and a
mass campaign helped to put it out of business a few years later. Anti-Nazi
League supporters developed their own initiatives, from Miners Against the Nazis
to Skinheads Against the Nazis. There was even a Skateboarders Against the
Nazis. With its sister group Rock Against Racism, the ANL organised huge
national carnivals and local gigs, as rock music culture reaching millions was
successfully fused with radical politics that traditionally had reached only
thousands.

The lesson of the Anti-Nazi League's success is that the BNP needs to be
confronted wherever its supporters march or appear in public; and they must also
be denied platforms to spread their hate. This was the lesson of the 1930s when
Blackshirts led by Oswald Mosley targeting Jewish communities in London's East
End were physically stopped in Cable Street in October 1936.

But the BNP leaders are more sophisticated than the old National Front. They
wear suits rather than openly flirt with nazism. They sound smooth and plausible
on radio or TV. They are exploiting alienation from Westminster politics,
particularly among the white working class.

Yet their politics are fundamentally similar: the scapegoating of black people,
Muslims, Jews, foreigners, gays and lesbians for social and economic problems.
Whenever they are ascendant locally, racial violence and racial hatred are
barely beneath the surface.

Although desperate to conceal its fascist and racist instincts, the BNP is the
National Front reincarnated - albeit using modern spin and the internet, coupled
with a community-based politics that thrives on grievances about "British jobs
for British workers".

To confront the BNP's threat, the priority must be grassroots campaigning.
Labour must win back trust by fielding candidates rooted in their communities
and pledged to deliver on local issues. That was successful in Tameside,
Keighley and Telford, for example - but sadly not in Sevenoaks last February,
where the BNP took a "safe" Labour ward.

All the main parties, Labour especially, must shake off their complacency and
take on the BNP directly. Its poison should be combated on the doorstep, through
leafleting and campaigning. Labour candidates and campaigners should work with
those from Unite Against Fascism (www.uaf.org.uk) and Stop the BNP
(www.stopthebnp.org.uk). Both organisations are mobilising a new generation of
activists and concerned people from trade unions, churches and other
organisations.

The aim should be simple but clear: to stop the BNP gaining seats anywhere in
Britain, but especially in Europe on June 4.

Peter Hain is the Labour MP for Neath

hainp@parliament.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday

The odd thing about West's bet

BYLINE: Tim Walker Edited by Laura Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Mandrake; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 136  words


After our story that Lord West of Spithead placed a bet that the Labour Party
would lose the next election, Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon, tells
Mandrake that he is more concerned about discovering which bookmaker offered the
Security Minister 66-1 that Labour would form a coalition with the Liberal
Democrats.

Wheeler, 74, who was expelled by the Conservatives last month after making a
pounds 100,000 donation to Ukip, tells me: "It is the most absurd price. Even if
Labour was doing well in the polls in 2007 it wouldn't be put at that level. I
hope that was a bet with a friend. If you put on a bet now for the Tories to win
it's about 2-1 against.''

Wheeler's own views are perhaps a little more complex. "I have placed some
political bets recently but I am not prepared to discuss them,'' he admits.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Euro MP denial on £36k con

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 109 words


A BRITISH Euro MP yesterday denied fiddling thousands in taxpayerfunded
expenses.

Accused Tom Wise, 60, appeared in court on charges of money laundering and false
accounting.

Wise, a Member of the European Parliament since 2004, is said to have pocketed
£36,000 he claimed for a researcher.

The former UKIP member, now an independent MEP for the East of England,
allegedly bought a car and fine wines.

Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, spoke only to confirm his name and address and
plead not guilty at London's City of Westminster Magistrates Court.

His assistant Lindsay Jenkins, 62, of Fulham, West London, denied the same
charges. Both were bailed until June..

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 36 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 26, 2009, Sunday

SCRAP OF COMFORT;
 3 MILLION DRIVERS ARE LIKELY TO BUY A NEW CAR THANKS TO £2K

BYLINE: NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1894 words

HIGHLIGHT: INCENTIVE: Drivers can get new cars


THREE million motorists say they are likely to dump their old bangers to claim
the £2,000 discount on new cars offered in last week's Budget.

And two million people will now consider moving home - enough to kickstart the
stalled housing market - thanks to Alistair Darling's extension of the stamp
duty holiday.

The findings for the Chancellor come in the results of an exclusive YouGov
survey in The People today.

The poll gives Mr Darling the thumbsup for stinging the rich with 50 per cent
top-rate tax on incomes above £150,000.

It shows more than six out of ten voters believe high earners should pay more to
get Britain out of recession.

But that's the only good news for Mr Darling as the nation gives its damning
verdict on his doom-and-gloom Budget.

Nearly a quarter of uncommitted voters say they are now LESS likely to vote for
Labour because of the Budget.

Borrowing That gives the Tories a thumping 18-point lead, which means David
Cameron would swan into Downing Street with a majority of 150.

Only nine per cent of voters believe Mr Darling's forecast that recovery will
begin before Christmas, while 46 per cent reckon it will be 2011 or even later
before the economy improves.

And 65 per cent of people expect UK borrowing to be higher than the £700billion
the Chancellor predicts. That means we are running up a bigger debt than the
First and Second World Wars and Napoleonic Wars combined.

A third of those questioned for our survey now blame the Government for the
financial mess Britain is in.

But in a major surprise voters BACK a hike in booze taxes on health grounds
which puts an extra 1p on a pint of beer and 13p on a bottle of spirits.

An overwhelming 66 per cent of those questioned think it is the right thing to
do while 82 per cent support putting cigarettes up 7p a pack.

But three-quarters oppose another increase in petrol prices, even if that would
help cut pollution.

As first predicted by The People, the Chancellor used his Budget to turn car
salesman as he announced his £2,000 scrappage scheme on motors more than ten
years old.

And his decision to extend the stamp duty holiday on homes worth up to £175,000
will prove a success if the six per cent who told our pollsters they are more
likely to move house actually end up doing so.

We Say: Page 14 nigel.nelson@ people.co.uk

BOOZE DUTY STEVE

HUTCHINSON, below, a 44-year-old engineer of Sheffield, South Yorks, enjoys a
drink most nights.

But he says he is happy to fork out a few more pence a pint - as long as it
helps beat the recession.

He said: "Lots of people at my local were moaning about being stung by the
Budget.

"But I told them things can't be that bad if they can afford to be down the pub
enjoying a pint. It really isn't that big an increase."

DON SHENKER, boss of Alcohol Concern, also backed the Government's move.

He said: "Over the past 20 years successive governments stood by as alcohol
became progressively more af fordable.

"The end result is that we now drink far more than our parents ever did and have
seen a dramatic increase in alcohol-related deaths.

"Increasing tax on alcohol would be a positive first step."

HOMES BOOST

GRAEME MILES, 25, below, and girlfriend CLARA STAUNTON, 25, are trying to buy
their own home so they were delighted the stamp duty holiday was extended.

Graeme, an environmental consultant, from Leeds, said: "With house prices
crashing any help from the government like this could make it just about
affordable for us to buy a place.

" But I know it's a problem in London because it only to houses under £175,000."
CHRIS CUMMINGS, of the Association of Mortgage Intermediaries, says he can
already see signs that the stamp duty holiday is having an effect.

He said: "Extending it is a welcomed move by the Chancellor.

"It's keeping the fragile housing market going. We're seeing a lot more interest
from potential buyers - specially younger ones. But it's a lot more in the North
than the South- East."

CAR TRADE-IN MARTIN

McTAGUE, 52, below, welcomed the car-scrappage scheme.

The businessman from Darlington, Co Durham, said: "We've had our car for about
10 years.

"But I didn't think it would make much so I never got round to selling it. Now
we'll get £2,000 for it we'll definitely offload it.

"It's great news as far as we're concerned. That's two grand we wouldn't have
had before. And that can't be bad." SUE ROBINSON, of the Retail Motor Industry
Federation said the scheme will get the car industry moving.

She said: "We lobbied for this and we hope and believe it will kickstart the UK
motor industry.

"It's had a massive effect in Germany. And, while our markets are different, we
know there's a lot of pent up demand out there.

"Dealers are telling us they're getting plenty of calls."

TAX ON RICH PAUL

CASSON, 50, an electrician from Lancaster, below, said: "I agree in principle
with the 50 per cent tax on top earners.

"They can afford it and they should contribute a bit more.

"If I was on £150,000 a year I wouldn't begrudge paying a little extra.But
that's been offset by the rise in petrol tax.

"That'll hit everyone hard. Petrol costs a fortune as it is and they're just
using the motorist to raise money..

SUNDER KATWALA, general secretary of left-wing think tank the Fabian Society,
backed the government's stance to tax the super rich.

He said: "The public support the government's 50p top-rate tax because there's a
realisation that we're all going to have to contribute more. It's only fair the
richest contribute the most.

"And people are also aware that it's the richest in society who have caused this
mess."

Voting Intention Con..............................................45
Lab...............................................27 Lib
Dem.......................................17
Other..........................................12 Other Parties Voting Intention
SNP/PCY.......................................3 UKIP.
............................................3
BNP..............................................3
Green............................................2
Respect.........................................0
Other............................................1 Non Voters Would Not
Vote...........................8 Don't know................................13
QHas this week's Budget made you more likely or less likely to vote Labour, or
has it made no difference? More likely to vote Labour..........5 Less
likely..................................23 No difference. I would have voted
Labour anyway...............18 No difference. I would NOT have voted Labour
anyway.................43 Don't know....................................11
QAlistair Darling the Chancellor of the Exchequer says Britain's economy will
start growing again by the end of the year. What do you expect? Britain's
economy is likely to start growing again later this year
....................................................9 Britain's economy is
likely to start growing again next year
...................................................31 Britain's economy will not
start to grow again until 2011 or later
..................................................46 Don't
know..................................13 QMr Darling announced increases in the
duties on tobacco and alcohol, partly on health grounds, and on petrol, partly
on environmental grounds.

Assuming that if he did not announce THESE increases, the Chancellor would have
had to increase OTHER taxes, do you think he was right or wrong to raise these
taxes? Increases in tobacco duties
Right...........................................82
Wrong.........................................14 Don't
know...................................4 Increases in alcohol duties
Right...........................................66
Wrong..........................................29 Don't
know...................................5 Increases in petrol duties
Right...........................................20
Wrong.........................................75 Don't
know...................................5 QMr Darling also announced that people
who own cars more than ten years old will receive £2,000 if they scrap their old
car and buy a new one within the next 12 months. How likely are you to take
advantage of this offer? Not applicable. I don't own a
car...............................................16 Not applicable. My car(s)
is/are less than ten years old
..................................................38 Very
likely...................................2 Fairly
likely.................................6 TOTAL LIKELY........................8
Not very likely.............................9 Not at all
likely..........................26 THE CRUNCH QUESTIONS

QDo you support or oppose the new 50 per cent top rate of tax on incomes of more
than £150,000 a year? Support........................................64
Oppose........................................22 Don't
know.................................13 QAlistair Darling predicts that the
Government will borrow £700billion over the next five years to plug the gap
between taxes and public spending.

Assuming no further tax rises or cuts are made to public spending than those
announced, do you think the true borrowing figure over the next five years will
be higher or lower than this, or is this prediction about right? Higher. The
true borrowing figure will be higher than
£700billion................................................

65 About the same. The borrowing figure will be about £700 billion
...................................................16 Lower. The true borrowing
figure will be less than £700billion
....................................................2 Don't
know...................................17 QIf the public sector finances get
even worse than the Government predicts and it had to choose between increasing
the basic rate of income tax and cutting the money spent on schools and
hospitals which should thegovernment do? Increase the basic rate of income
tax..................................................59 Cut spending on schools
and hospitals......................................23 Don't
know..................................18 TOTAL UNLIKELY.................35 Don't
know..................................3 QAnd are you more likely to consider
moving house or buying your first home because the stamp duty holiday on homes
worth up to £175,000 has been extended to the end of this year? Yes I am more
likely to do so.................................................6 No I am
not.................................67 Not applicable - I don't own a home and
have no plans to own one in the near future.............23 Don't
know...................................5 QWhich one of these do you blame most
for Britain's current economic problems? Britain's bankers......42 Britain's
government..................

33 Bankers in other countries..........15 Governments in other countries........

3 Don't know...8 All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc.
Total sample size was 1,855 adults.

Fieldwork was undertaken between 23rd - 24th April 2009.

The survey was carried out online.

The figures have been weighted and are representative of all GB adults (aged
18)..

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                               6 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday

Blair's despair over 50p tax rate

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce and Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717  words


TONY BLAIR believes that the 50 per cent top rate of income tax introduced by
Gordon Brown is a "terrible mistake'', The Daily Telegraph has

learnt.

The former prime minister has privately expressed his despair at the Labour
Government's decision to target the better off in the Budget.

Some of New Labour's leading architects have also savaged the move, which they
believe will cost the party any hope of winning the general election. The
disclosure that Mr Blair has indicated his opposition to the headline tax rate
for people earning more than  pounds 150,000 will cause consternation in Downing
Street.

No 10 was rattled by yesterday's poll in The Daily Telegraph that gave the
Tories an 18 point lead over Labour.

One friend of Mr Blair said: "Tony thought the original proposal to raise the
top rate to 45 pence was just about saleable in the current economic
circumstances.

"But he believes taking 50 per cent is not acceptable. He thinks it's a terrible
mistake.'' One of Mr Blair's closest allies said yesterday: "The 50p tax move is
a disaster. Blair would have cut taxes, not increased them.''

The hostile public reaction to the Budget, which signalled a return to the
politics of class warfare, has intensified speculation that the Prime Minister
could face a leadership challenge.

The mood of despair among Labour MPs deepened after figures published yesterday
suggested that the economy contracted far more sharply in the first quarter than
Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, predicted in his Budget statement only two
days earlier.

The gross domestic product shrank by 1.9 per cent between January and March,
official statistics indicated.

Labour MPs fear that Mr Brown's fate may be sealed by the European and county
council elections on June 4 amid polling evidence that the party is facing
disaster and could trail in fourth behind the Lib Dems and the UK Independence
Party.

A senior Labour figure, who helped create New Labour, said the election was
already lost but the party could not replace another leader without calling a
general election.

"There is no way back,'' he said. "People want a man with a plan, and no one
would believe Labour if they changed leader now.''

The gloom in Labour was underlined by Alastair Campbell, who was Mr Blair's
communications chief.

He wrote in his blog: "I confess to being a bit down after the Budget. Not for
nothing, I guess, is a grim economic situation described as a depression.''

Lord Mandelson, in an interview today, warns the party against shifting from its
agenda.

"If we imagine, as some argue, that the antidote to Cameron is Left-wing
socialism, that the dividing line between us and David Cameron should be to make
him a Right-winger and us the Left-wingers, that will lead to defeat,'' he says.

"There are not enough people [in the Labour Party] to man the barricades to keep
us in the winning position we had before.''

Speculation about Mr Brown's future resumed before the Budget because of

the controversy over Damian McBride, the Downing Street aide whose emails
smeared senior Tories. Mr Brown's authority will be further weakened if his
proposal for a daily attendance rate, to end the row over MPs' expenses, is
rejected by his own side.

Charles Clarke, the former Home Secretary, said: "MPs haven't reacted to the
Budget with the belief that the problems with the economy have been sorted out.
People were appalled by the emails.'' On expenses, he said: "Gordon has got off
on the wrong foot on this.''

Several former ministers said the party would go into meltdown if Labour came
fourth in the June 4 elections.

"If we are in fourth place he is in real trouble,'' he said. "I'm not sure we
could wait until the party conference to replace him. He would have to go by the
summer.''

Another said it was "not an unreasonable conclusion to draw'' that the 50p tax
meant "the death of New Labour''. He said he would "not be surprised'' if MPs
were planning to move against Mr Brown if the polls went badly.

The Labour Whips are planning to enforce party discipline by contacting some of
Mr Brown's opponents to warn before the polls against going public with any
calls for a change at the top.

A spokesman for Mr Blair declined to be drawn on the 50p tax rate, but said:
"Tony Blair continues to support Gordon Brown and the Labour Government.''

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Labour's secret weapon - Prezza

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 200 words


JOHN PRESCOTT, whose tour of Britain in a battle bus enlivened the 1997 general
election, is going back on the road, but this time he's using a minibus.

The former Deputy Prime Minister, now a backbench MP for Hull East, will tour
the north of England to persuade Labour voters to turn out for the European
Parliament elections in June.

Mr Prescott was the public face of traditional Labour when Tony Blair invented
New Labour. Since leaving government, he has taken to the internet with the
gusto of a teenager, tweeting and blogging almost daily.

His bank holiday week campaign to rescue Labour from electoral oblivion will
therefore be a mix of the old-fashioned and the new. One minute, he will be on
the doorstep; the next on Facebook. In an email yesterday, he said: "It's vital
we continue fighting for social justice and stop the hate-filled BNP."

The tour will begin in Liverpool on 1 May, finishing up in Hull on Bank Holiday
Monday. Elections to the European Parliament are conducted on a proportional
system, and so there is a real prospect that the BNP could win its first seat on
4 June. Other small parties, including the Greens and UKIP, already have seats
in the Strasbourg assembly.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 24, 2009 Friday

Attack on the high earners is a desperate gamble;
attempt to shore up support

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Budget 2009; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 409  words


THE Prime Minister yesterday woke up to headlines speaking of a return to the
Old Labour politics of class war.

But Gordon Brown used a breakfast meeting to argue that the new 50 per cent top
rate of tax was not taxation for its own sake, but "tax for a purpose''. That
purpose was tackling the recession, he argued. But in truth it was far more
about trying to shore up Labour's support.

Today's Telegraph/YouGov poll shows that most people like the idea of taxing the
wealthy. Little surprise there. It is why Mr Brown insisted on the new rate of
higher tax in the Budget.

Looming on the horizon is Gordon Brown's 2009 electoral test - on June 4 the
country votes in European and council elections. Polling has indicated that
Labour faces a barely imaginable humiliation.

David Cameron will be the main beneficiary as he road-tests his election tactics
while the other parties, including the minority UKIP and BNP, will expect to
make an impact with perhaps the first BNP MEP. Labour is fighting hard not to
repeat last year's third place in the town hall elections, which came as they
also lost key by-elections and London to the Tories.

Those losses set in train a summer of in-fighting and pressure on Mr Brown's
leadership. The Prime Minister might not survive another such summer and has
been forced to bring in a policy designed to appeal to the grassroots in the
short term.

Judging by today's 18-point Tory lead - Labour support is now just nine points
ahead of the Liberal Democrats - that is desperately needed.

There is little doubt that Mr Brown has long thought about taking the 50 per
cent idea off the shelf, dusting it off and implementing it. He has also long
been driven by establishing "dividing lines'' with the Conservatives. Tempting
the Tories to oppose the new top rate, as many MPs want, was one way to do it.

One of Mr Brown's key supporters in Cabinet on the issue was Harriet Harman.
Labour's deputy leader will have been delighted that the Left-wing could finally
go back to their constituencies and claim the rich were

now paying more of their share.

But there is unease among Blairites in the Cabinet. There is a view among some
that more should have been done to pay debt in the good years at the start of
the century.

Whatever their objections, it is the wealthy who will suffer as Mr Brown
attempts to motivate the core Labour vote. Whether that will be enough to save
him from national humiliation next year is far from certain.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN HERE WE COME;
France makes it easier for migrants to reach UK

BYLINE: By Peter Allen in Paris and Anil Dawar In London

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 664  words


FRANCE wants Britain to sign a deal allowin g thousands of migrants to flood
into the UK.

Calais mayor Natacha Bouchart's controversial plan to scrap passport controls
was announced as migrants in the port staged an angry demo yesterday, waving
placards written in flawless English.

The banners expose how Britain's open-door asylum system and benefits culture
are a magnet for Afghans, Kurds and Eritreans. Exasperated by the sight of
migrants sleeping rough as they try to board England-bound trains and lorries
illegally, Mrs Bouchart outlined her scheme to rid Calais of the blight to
French Immigration Minister Eric Besson.

"It's necessary to speed up negotiations with the British because at the moment
we're ready to charter a boat to dump them over there, " she said.

She said all Britain had to do was sign up to the Schengen Agreement, which
allows anybody to travel between EU states without passports or visas.

Mr Besson challenged Britain to share responsibility for France's problem by
asking why migrants from places such as Iran, Somalia and Sudan travel across
the world to reach the UK.

"Britain should step up its controls and take on more of this burden, " he said.

"Britain should also question why migrants and the traffi ckers in migrants
believe that the British illegal job market is a golden opportunity."

Mrs Bouchart welcomed a plan to bring in the army to destroy a notorious shanty
town called The Jungle where a London journalism student was raped last year.

The two politicians, both tough-talking members of the ruling UMP party, were
taking part in a meeting aimed at "cleaning up" a problem fi rmly blamed on
Britain's benefi ts culture.

The French believe it encourages foreigners from all over the world to use their
country as a base to get to the UK, where they receive generous welfare payments
as asylum seekers or disappear into the black economy.

While Mr Besson favours the use of military force to tear down the squatter
camps, he knows that removing passport controls from Calais would cause outrage
on the other side of the Channel.

Instead he would prefer to see a series of "mini" welcome centres set up along
the French coast, offering food, showers and information.

He denied that they would be like the Sangatte centre, which acted as a magnet
to thousands of migrants to the UK before being shut down in 2002.

If the UK did sign up to Schengen, then all the Calais migrants could fl ock to
Dover unchallenged.

Earlier this week Mrs Bouchart said: "With some 800 migrants in the town the
situation is becoming unmanageable.

"Calais is hostage to Britain, which refuses to ratify Schengen.

I will ask the minister to restart negotiations with Britain."

Mrs Bouchart said if Britain signed up to Schengen, then the migrants could make
their way direct to the UK to claim asylum, rather than using France as a
platform to get there illegally.

There are some 2,000 migrants sleeping rough in the Pas de Calais area, playing
a nightly game of cat and mouse with frontier police as they try to board
lorries and trains to Britain.

Referring to The Jungle, Mrs Bouchart said: "It's not a camp, it's a village.
The municipal workers cannot clean it up, they're not up to it. It needs an
intervention by the army. There are more than 80 shelters, a mosque and shop."

She said thousands of pounds of equipment had been stolen to build makeshift
homes, some of it recovered during police raids on Tuesday. Around 200 people
were arrested but almost all have since been released.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said the new mini centres
would act as a magnet for asylum seekers trying to get into Britain.

"Bulldozing The Jungle is welcome but setting up new structures is just a ploy
to shift their problem on to us."

Responding to the plan to make Calais a passport-free zone, Immigration Minister
Phil Woolas said: "UK policy is to not sign up to the Schengen Agreement.

Weakening our controls will only play into the hands of the traffi ckers."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALAIS YESTERDAY: Afghans, Kurds and Eritreans waving banners written
in flawless English demonstrate their determination to get across the Channel to
cash in on Britain's benefits culture
A migrant protesting yesterday at the threat to close the Calais squatter camp
holds a sign in English calling for political asylum as French riot police look
on
Asylum seekers stage a sit-in yesterday after police bar them from Calais city
centre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Brown overreaction to expenses row would drive good MPs from politics

LENGTH: 1012 words

ABSTRACT

Daily allowance and transparency of outside earnings are inadequate solutions to
expenses problem and the latter could drain us of talent

FULL TEXT

Since MPs returned to Westminster I've seen several carrying bulky plastic bags
around. They could contain a sweater or a week's supply of sandwiches, but are
actually full of past expense chits, part of the 1mwhich have had to be
reprocessed to reform politicians' running costs.

Each MP is expected to go through them all and confirm their accuracy before
they are published in July. Time-consuming and annoying, the honest ones suspect
they'll be the ones most pilloried when the great day comes. It is the ticking
time-bomb which drives the current agenda and prompted Gordon Brown's initiative
yesterday.

The striking thing about Brown's move to cleanse the running sore of MPs'
expenses is that he acted with speed and decisiveness - not normally his style.
Less surprising was the partisan and secretive way in which the prime minister
drew up his replacement formula, and announced them.

So it is the substance of Brown's remarks and the fact that he made them via
YouTube, not in a statement to the Commons, that should be the focus of comment,
not the wearily familiar fact that he looks a bit nerdy on these occasions. The
dignity of his office - and of parliament - would have been better served by a
decision to speak at the dispatch box.

You can easily see why he didn't. David Cameron and Nick Clegg, with whom he was
supposed to be in negotiation (they all meet later today), would have been
cross. So would backbenchers for different reasons. It would have been unseemly
- again - as pay-and-expense negotiations usually are on the shop floor and in
the boardroom.

Several bits of the Brown Plan strike me as moves in the right direction: staff
employed by the Commons instead of by MPs themselves (thus avoiding unsuitable
family employment); a tighter receipts regime; no allowances for ministers
occupying grace-and-favour homes (usually on security grounds); above all, an
end to the additional costs allowance (ACA) which funded these troublesome
London flats.

It was Mrs Thatcher who first bought off trouble by allowing the rule change
that enabled MPs to charge for mortgages instead of rental costs, since when
property prices went through the roof (and back again). It is never a good time
to raise MPs' pay, and expenses were a softer option which has gone horribly
wrong.

But Brown's daily allowance proposal will only cause more grief, bringing the
undignified "Brussels gravy train" to Westminster, as ex-MEP Clegg was quick to
point out. Actually, it's a gravy queue, the sight of MEPs queuing to clock in
on Friday - bag in hand - before flying home.

German MPs get a flat monthly expenses allowance of just over £3,000 and are not
required to submit receipts. France is more generous - no surprise there - to
its political elite, £5,000 a month plus subsidised mortgage loans. The Swedes,
admirable but dull as ever, are more austere. A flat-rate, not tied to
attendance, strikes me as more honest.

Brown's cheap shot (says me) is to propose that all MPs declare any outside
earnings, the implication being that virtuous Labour MPs - most of them - regard
being an elected representative as a full-time job and it's only those wicked
Tories who moonlight.

That makes several assumptions that highlight the narrowness of Brown's view of
human nature on occasion. Probably it will be amended to create earnings bands -
rather like some company annual reports do - as a compromise. That's what the
Register of Members Interests already does in part.

If voted through next week - a result hard to predict - the Brown version won't
just affect Tories because not all Labour MPs are either virtuous or
unemployable: Patricia Hewitt and Alan Milburn, to take two health secretaries
at random, have outside earners, but probably remain excellent local MPs. Ditto
John Reid, chairman of Celtic. Also conscientious is Frank Dobson (a fourth
health secretary); he just happens to be the kind of jolly puritan who doesn't
take on extra work. It makes Frank neither better nor worse in my book.

Does anyone think William Hague is lazy, greedy or incompetent in his role as MP
for Richmond - or as shadow foreign secretary - simply because he is willing and
able to make up to £1m a year on the side through books, speaking engagements
(he's VERY funny) or directorships?

I hope not. There aren't enough Hagues in modern politics. As it happens, brainy
Hague's shoulders are broad enough (actually they're huge) to carry the attacks.
Ken Clarke (who grew up quite poor) would probably relish being forced to
declare his earnings, cigars included.

But not everyone is so robust. The danger of the present public anger against
expenses - a lot of it justified - is that it will make able people in all
parties disinclined to risk running for elective office, something which is
already happening.

"The quality-of-life balance has tipped me towards retirement," an able Labour
minister with a safe seat confided the other day. He'll not stand again. You can
laugh and go back to the PlayStation 2 but someone has to do the heavy lifting
of politics. Charges recently pressed against a UKIP MEP - an ex-copper too -
suggest there are no easy solutions.

I imagine such thoughts lie behind Brown's sad self-pitying remark on YouTube
that young people he meets "rarely want to be an MP" any more. Too gloomy, I
suspect. But the problem of how to finance honest politics and honest
politicians is universal and always has been. Ours still score pretty well.
Honest, they do.

But before you reach for the keyboard to comment, let's not overlook the
contributions to public hypocrisy on this topic which come routinely from the
unaccountable media - and from voters.

If we want MPs who are talented, honest and in touch with ordinary folk, working
a responsive and efficient system, how do we organise and pay for it with this
sort of unseemly scrum? Sensible answers please. My expectations are on the
modest end of the scale.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

BRITISH MEP IS CHARGED WITH FIDDLING HIS STAFF ALLOWANCES

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY POLITICAL REPORTER

LENGTH: 314 words


A BRITISH Euro MP was last night charged with fiddling thousands of pounds of
taxpayer-funded expenses.

Former UKIP politician Tom Wise is accused of false accounting and money
laundering following accusations that he fiddled his generous Brussels staff
allowances.

He is thought to be the first MEP to face criminal charges over the use of
Parliamentary perks.

Wise, 60, a former policeman, was arrested in June last year after it was
revealed that he had allegedly siphoned off nearly 640,000 of public money by
claiming it was for a researcher's salary.

Detectives investigated after it was claimed Wise only passed on some of the
cash and banked the rest. He allegedly spent 66,500 on a Peugeot 406. He was
alleged to have pretended that his own bank account was that of his then
researcher Lindsay Jenkins which is against EU rules. He is alleged to have
channelled 639,100 into it, from which he paid Jenkins 613,555.

Jenkins, 62, was also charged with one count of false accounting and one count
of money laundering.

Wise and Jenkins were jointly charged following a nine-month police probe. They
pair were released on bail and will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court
next Monday.

The 662,000-a-year MEP faces a maximum 14 years in jail if found guilty of money
laundering. The maximum term for false accounting is seven years.

Wise now sits as an independent MEP for East Anglia after being dismissed from
the Rightwing party.

News of the criminal charges will once again turn the spotlight on the Brussels
gravy train.

Wise's lawyer, Stephen Welfare, said: 'Mr Wise denies any intent to deceive or
any unlawful wrongdoing whatsoever and he will be fighting the allegations in
court.'

He said neither Wise nor his family had profited and said there had been no loss
to the European Parliament.

He added: 'It is frankly scandalous that Mr Wise has been charged with criminal
offences.'

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Even France blames our benefits for migrant flood

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 530  words


BRITAIN's lax asylum system and benefits culture is directly to blame for the
thousands of migrants who try to sneak into the country from France, the mayor
of Calais has claimed.

In a blistering attack on Labour's open-door immigration and asylum policies
Mayor Natacha Bouchart accused Britain of turning the port into a staging post
for illegal immigration and demanded millions of pounds in compensation.

And Mrs Bouchart, who is a member of President Nicolas Sarkozy's ruling UMP
party, said she was so disgusted by Britain's failure to deal with the crisis
she refused to meet government representatives. She said: "Calais is a hostage
to the British."

Last night the mayor received widespread backing in Britain.

Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "The Mayor of Calais is right
that the long-term chaos in our immigration system, from badly p rotected
borders to the Home Office not sending an officer to many appeal hearings,
encourages people to try their luck. "The answer for Britain and the people of
Calais is a well-run immigration system with a proper Border Police Force."

Former Home Office Minister Ann Widdecombe said: "She is quite right.

It's undeniable that our immigration system is lax and our asylum system has
collapsed. Until we start to house asylum seekers in secure accommodation until
their applications are processed there will always be an incentive to try to get
to Britain - that is what the situation in Calais is all about."

There are an estimated 2,000 British-bound migrants in the Channel region, with
around 800 in Calais, refugee charities claim.

Mrs Bouchart said Calais was paying GBP 12million a year to secure the busy port
from illegal immigrants.

But she claimed Britain's immigration system was the main reason why migrants
from Africa, Asia and the Middle East try to clamber on lorries and trains in
Calais to get to Britain.

She said: "Requesting asylum is easier with the British than in France.

The asylum seeker is given accommodation and receives GBP 31 to GBP 40 a week
according to their case, when the annual salary of the average Eritrean is less
than GBP 140. That seems enormous and it is attractive."

The mayor claimed Britain's opt-out of the Schengen agreement - which allows
passport-free travel throughout Europe - benefited the UK as France has a duty
to stop illegal immigrants from crossing the Channel.

Last night Immigration Minister Phil Woolas said: "The illegal migrants in
Calais are not queuing to get into Britain - they have been locked out by one of
the toughest border crossings in the world."

The mayor's comments came as more details emerged of the controversial EU Common
Asylum Policy to let migrants claim asylum for Britain while in another member
state.

Proposals include creating a European Immigration Service, bringing refugees to
the UK to claim asylum and setting up a "resettlement agency" to help them move
around the EU.

Last night, the plans discussed at an EU summit in Brussels today, were
condemned. UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "These proposals will allow any illegal
immigrant who reaches the EU to be transferred to British shores where taxpayers
will be expected to support them."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

'FRAUD' DATE FOR EURO MP;
COURT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 74 words


A BRITISH MEP was yesterday charged with fiddling taxpayers' cash.

Tom Wise, 60, now an independent, and his former researcher Lindsay Jenkins, 62,
have been accused of false accounting and money laundering.

The alleged offences, took place between 2004 and 2005, when the MEP was
representing UKIP.

Ex-police officer Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, and Jenkins, from London,
were both bailed to appear at Westminster magistrates court on April 27..

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Feature - Fronting up to fascism;
Anti-racism activists have a new weapon in their arsenal. Paddy McGuffin reports

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

LENGTH: 840 words


Hope Not Hate, the anti-racist campaign group, faces perhaps its toughest
challenge to date in its bid to prevent the fascist BNP gaining seats in the
coming European elections.

The elections are a key goal for the BNP and provide its best hope of making
significant electoral gain. The traditionally low turnout for EU elections
coupled with the use of the d'Hondt system of proportional representation
favours small parties such as the BNP if they are able to mobilise their
supporters.

The demise of the UK Independence Party and the current economic situation,
which is seeing more and more disenfranchised voters casting around for an
alternative to the mainstream parties, could also play into the fascists hands.

But according to one of Hope Not Hate's key organisers, the anti-nazi campaign
has garnered more support than ever from diverse quarters including the Church
of England and trade unionists.

The campaign to defeat the fascists at the ballot box has even received
transatlantic backing.

Blue State Digital the campaign group credited with invigorating the Obama
presidential campaign, has joined with Hope Not Hate and the partnership is
already reaping dividends.

A spokesman for Blue State says: "Blue State Digital's strategy and production
teams are supporting Searchlight's Hope Not Hate campaign in the UK to stop the
fascist British National Party winning a seat in June's European election.

"BSD will be working closely with Searchlight - developing messaging, email and
fundraising campaigns to help supporters organise and mobilise - and then fight
back against the BNP message of racism, intolerance and hate."

While mainstream politicians, with a few honourable exceptions, are only
belatedly waking up to the growing threat of the extremist right-wing BNP, Hope
Not Hate has been consistent in highlighting and exposing the hypocrisy and
insidious racism of the BNP and other far-right groups.

Nick Lowles of Hope Not Hate explains how the alliance with Blue State came
about and also why he feels the European election campaign is not a lost cause.

"The alliance with Blue State came about in two ways," says Lowles.

"The person who set up the European arm of the company is a friend of mine and
we both worked on John Cruddas's campaign.

"Secondly, last October we took a delegation of trade unionists to the US and
met up with Blue State while we were there. They agreed to work with us on this
important issue as they see our cause as a positive campaign which they wished
to be involved with."

What has the partnership meant for Hope not Hate and its campaigning?

"It has provided us with an organising tool which allows us to build up a much
larger network of supporters," explains Lowles.

"In the last two months we have built up a database of 28,000 people and we are
only really starting - we hope to increase that to around 60,000 to 80,000.

"Trade unionists have huge email lists, but now we have a huge number of people
actively joining us.

"We have already seen a phenomenal response. We helped get the BNP march in
Liverpool stopped and we will soon be unveiling our online campaign.

"We will be providing materials for people to organise events and opposition to
the BNP themselves in their local areas."

Hope Not hate has also made major inroads into the Church of England.

Until recently, the church has, at least publicly, distanced itself from
politics.

But in recent months, key figures in the Anglican faith have put their heads
above the parapet to condemn the BNP as hatemongers and cynical opportunists
whose beliefs are anathema to Christian teachings.

Bishop of Manchester Nigel McCulloch recently addressed the city council on the
perils of ignoring the growing fascist threat and urged support for the Hope Not
Hate campaign.

The BNP recently polled 23 per cent of the vote in the Moston council elections
in north Manchester and have polled similarly elsewhere in the area.

Addressing Manchester city council, the bishop said the BNP would "seek
political success in this year's European elections by preaching a message of
division and hatred.

"They will use racism and other prejudice to challenge the very diversity which
strengthens our city. They will exploit the difficult times which presently face
our country, trying to turn one community against the other.

"They will use difference as a scapegoat because they have nothing else to offer
in response to the issues we face."

Bishop of Bradford David James has also spoken out on the issue, saying that BNP
policies were incompatible with the church.

Commenting on the church's response, Lowles said: "What we are seeing is a
concerted effort within the church and among all other faith groups.

"We are also now seeing cross-party support for our campaign. We are facing a
big threat, but I think our campaign will be far bigger than it has in the past.

"I would urge people not to be despondent about the Moston vote. In the
north-west alone we have got 9,000 people who have joined our campaign online
who are all determined to help tackle the threat."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Brit MEP in 'fiddle' charged

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 71 words


A BRIT MEP was yesterday charged over claims he fiddled taxpayers' cash.

Tom Wise, 60 - an ex-UKIP member - allegedly claimed tens of thousands of pounds
for his assistant's salary.

But he is said to have paid Lindsay Jenkins, 62, just a sixth of the cash.

The ex-cop, of Linslade, Beds, and Jenkins, of Fulham, West London, will appear
before Westminster JPs on Monday charged with false accounting and acquiring
criminal property..

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ex-cop ... Tom Wise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

MEP charged with accounts fiddle and money laundering over payments to
researcher

BYLINE: David Charter; Frances Gibb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 581 words


A Member of the European Parliament and his assistant have both been charged
with false accounting and money laundering after an investigation into claims
that they misused thousands of pounds of expenses.

Tom Wise, 60, who was hoping to stand for re-election in June, was elected for
the UK Independence Party but now sits as an independent after being expelled
from the party.

He and Lindsay Jenkins, his researcher, could face lengthy jail terms if found
guilty.

The charges against Mr Wise, an MEP for the East of England, come less than two
months before European elections for which an EU-wide survey has forecast a
record low turnout.

They follow a series of claims about the misuse of the generous expenses on
offer in Brussels, including the Conservative Chief Whip Den Dover being
required to pay back £445,000 in "unaccountable expenditure".

It is the second time that a former UKIP MEP has faced criminal charges during
the current parliamentary session.

Ashley Mote, 73, who represents South East England as an independent, was found
guilty of falsely claiming benefits of more than £65,000 and given a nine-month
sentence in 2007.

Mr Mote served his sentence and, because it was less than 12 months, was able to
return as an MEP.

Mr Wise is alleged to have pretended that his own bank account was actually that
of Ms Jenkins, his researcher, against EU rules. From November 2004 until
October 2005, he is alleged to have channelled £39,100 into his own account,
from which he paid Ms Jenkins £13,555. When the allegations surfaced, Mr Wise
began repaying £25,530. He had the party whip withdrawn in 2007 after UKIP
learnt that he was being investigated by Olaf, the EU's anti-fraud office. The
claims were first made in a Sunday newspaper in 2005.

Derek Frame, a reviewing lawyer for the Crown Prosecution Service's special
crime division, said: "Following the publication of a news article in October
2005 relating to Mr Wise and Ms Jenkins, the European Anti-Fraud Office (Olaf)
began an investigation into Mr Wise's use of allowances. Olaf subsequently
passed the investigation to Bedfordshire Police Economic Crime Unit for
investigation.

"These charges relate to alleged offences committed between October 2004 and
September 2005. At the time Mr Wise was a MEP representing the United Kingdom
Independence Party and Ms Jenkins was employed by him as a researcher." Mr Wise
and Ms Jenkins will appear at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court on April
27.

The maximum sentence for false accounting is seven years. For money laundering
it is 14 years.

Stephen Welfare, Mr Wise's lawyer, said that the MEP denied any intent to
deceive or any unlawful wrongdoing and would fight the allegations.

"Mr Wise repaid to the EU all excess money received but not accounted for," said
Mr Welfare.

"It is frankly scandalous that Mr Wise has been charged with criminal offences
when MEPs and MPs from the major political parties have and continue to make
bogus claims for expenses for thousands of pounds on any number of pretexts.
Will we now see high-profile government ministers and leading politicians being
charged?" Mr Wise's expulsion from UKIP left the party down to nine MEPs from
the 12 seats it won in 2004 with 16.8 per cent of the vote, the second-highest
share behind the Conservatives and ahead of Labour.

UKIP also suffered the departure of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former broadcaster
and Labour MP, who left in 2005 to set up his own party, Veritas.

He then became an independent..

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tom Wise, an independent MEP expelled from UKIP, could face a jail term

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 20, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU to let illegals into Britain from France

BYLINE: From Nick Fagge in Calais

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 221  words


MIGRANTS trying to cross the Channel illegally will soon be able to claim asylum
in Britain while still in France under a controversial EU plan.

Brussels intends to create a purposebuilt "asylum support office" in Calais and
alter the Dublin Convention to allow refugees to demand sanctuary in one country
while in another.

EU Vice-President Jacques Barrot says Britain has a duty to "share the burden"
of illegal migrants and must play its part in a "European plan for resettlement
of refugees within the EU". However, last night the plan was condemned as
"absurd".

Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatchUK, said: "To allow claims from people who
have not even got into Britain would turn Calais into a honeypot for bogus
asylum seekers." And UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Mr Barrot is rewriting the
international rules to suit the French and stuff the British."

Mr Barrot has discussed his plan with Home Secretary Jacqui Smith and hopes to
have the system in operation by next year.

He said: "We have recently proposed to modify the rule on asylum applications in
order to allow a transfer of the file from France to Great Britain.

"A reception centre for asylum seekers in Calais, as in Dover, should be
envisaged."

Last night the Home Office said they would not agree to anything that limits the
UK's ability to control our borders.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday

I WANT YOU TO VOTE TORY - BY ALABOUR MINISTER...

BYLINE: BY PHIL WOOLAS IMMIGRATION MINISTER

LENGTH: 750 words


You wouldn't normally expect a Labour Minister to ask you to vote Conservative
or Liberal Democrat or even Green. But this year I am doing just that. Don't
worry, I have told the Chief Whip about my intentions and I am not going mad. I
am very serious.

At the European elections on June 4, I would prefer you vote Labour. Indeed, I
will be tramping the streets getting our supporters out to vote and trying to
persuade others to follow suit.

But if you are not supporting Labour then please, please go out and vote for one
of the other main parties. If you don't, the UK will have Euro-MPs from the
far-Right BNP and they will be joining forces with the likes of the Italian
Forza Nuova, the French National Front and Hungary's Jobbik Party.

Having BNP Euro-MPs would be disastrous. For a start, they would be entitled to
61million of taxpayers' money to form a political grouping in Brussels.

The threat of a BNP candidate being elected is very real indeed. In fact, if the
turnout doesn't increase in June compared with the last Euro polls held in 2004,
it's inevitable. That is because elections to Brussels, unlike those for
Westminster, are run on a system of proportional representation.

Put crudely, MEPs are elected in regional blocks. If there are ten places up for
grabs, a candidate needs just over a tenth of the vote to win. I know it's
slightly more complicated than that, but the fact is the BNP's leader, Nick
Griffin, is set to become a Euro MP unless you go out and vote for another party
to get the turnout up.

Because of the proportional representation system, the bigger the population in
a region, the less of the vote a candidate needs to get elected. In the North
East of England, for example, there are three MEPs. To win you need about a
third of the vote. In my region, the North West, where Griffin is standing,
there are nine MEPs. So, if the BNP polls around one-ninth of the vote, he will
win a coveted seat in the European Parliament.

In London there are also nine seats up for grabs. A similar voting system used
in the London Assembly elections last year saw a BNP member elected in the
capital.

In the South East there are ten MEPs, which means about ten per cent of the vote
is enough to gain victory. In stark terms, assuming a 40 per cent turnout, 1 in
25 people voting BNP will secure the party a seat in Brussels.

In the North West, based on 2004's turnout, the BNP would need only around
200,000 votes from an electorate of more than five million. Apathy, this time,
will be very costly.

The other threat is that the far Right are trying to jump into the shoes of the
United Kingdom Independence Party. UKIP did well in 2004, getting 13 Euro MPs
elected. This time the BNP is desperate to shed its extremist image - the
campaign leaflets don't mention race and ethnicity but concentrate instead on
the EU. Whatever your views on that august body - and there are many in the
Labour Party who are Eurosceptical - the danger of the BNP stealing votes is
very real.

This is not an idle or dull threat. As each year passes from the Second World
War and the defeat of the Nazis, it gets more difficult to persuade people that
the dangers of the far Right are very real.

If it is true that 'by their friends ye shall know them', then the BNP is bad
company indeed. Its candidate for the West Midlands last week attended a rally
in Milan with Forza Nuova, whose members include Mussolini's granddaughter.

The French MEP, Bruno Gollnisch, says the Nazi Holocaust never happened. The
Jobbik Party members are as unsavoury a bunch as you can imagine.

In the past I have been accused of scare-mongering. I reject that. Those who say
we should not mention the BNP are naive and in denial. In my own town of Oldham,
we have taken on the BNP and defeated it. Mainstream politicians can't pretend
it doesn't exist. By hiding its true beliefs and adopting populist issues, the
BNP is trying to hoodwink voters.

The economic situation is also playing into BNP hands. Already we are seeing
speeches attacking international conspiracies and 'usury' as the culprits in the
economic downturn. For 'usury' read Jews - language that borders very carefully
on the anti-Semitic hatred of the past.

In my lifetime, it's never been more difficult to fight the far Right. And
although I disagree passionately with the policies of my Conservative and
Lib-Dem opponents, I would far sooner see them in the Euro Parliament than the
BNP.

So please, if you can't vote for my party, get out and vote against me!

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN WELCOMES MILLION MOLDOVANS

BYLINE: by JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 265 words


BRITAIN is set to be swamped by up to a million Moldovans after crazy European
laws opened up a back-door route for them.

Romania will give citizenship to a quarter of the impoverished state's citizens
- making them part of the European Union.

The move will give the former Moldovans the right to live anywhere in the EU,
including the UK.

The plan was announced by Romanian president Traian Basescu, who will give
passports to Moldovans with family ties to his country.

Attacking the decision last night, UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "I can't vote
for the President of Romania and nor can you.

"So how can he decide who comes to our country?

"The EU takes away the most basic power, that of we British being able to decide
who shares our island nation with us."

Moldova is the poorest country in Europe and has been gripped by economic
problems, ethnic clashes and a split between supporters of Europe and Russia.

The turmoil has been exploited by peopletrafficking gangs who have transported
thousands of people into the UK.

Last May police broke up a gang smuggling hundreds of immigrants into Ireland
after selling them fake Romanian passports.

In January 2007 another Moldovan gang was caught using sailing boats and a
speedboat to bring human cargo across the Channel.

A Home Office spokesman said: "We are determined to ensure that migration
benefits the British people.

"It's essential that only those we need can come here and work."

He added: "We have already suspended tier three of the points-based system to
stop low skilled migrants from outside the European Economic Area entering the
UK."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PASSPORT MOVE: Basescu will give Moldovans EU citizenship

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

One million of Europe's poor of fered way into UK

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 469  words


FEARS were growing last night that a fresh wave of migrants was on the way here
after up to a million eastern Europeans were offered a back door route into
Britain.

Citizens from Moldova - the continent's poorest country - are expected to arrive
in search of work after they were offered the right to travel across the
European Union visa-free.

The move follows a disputed election in the tiny former Soviet Republic. Its
communist leaders, said to have rigged the result, accused neighbouring Romania
- an EU member since 2007 - of trying to stage a coup.

Romanian President Traian Basescu reacted by pledging to speed applications for
Romanian passports from Moldovan citizens, who are already entitled to live and
work in his country. Romanian passport holders do not need a visa to travel to
the UK.

Last night there was growing alarm at the prospect of another "invasion" from
the east.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "I didn't vote for the
president of Romania and nor did you, so how on earth can he decide who can come
to our country?

"We've simply got to get out of the European Union so that once again it will be
Britons who decide what will happen in, who can come to, Britain."

Sir Andrew Green from MigrationWatchUK said: "This is another gaping hole in the
EU's border controls and therefore our own.

"If EU passports are handed out like confetti we can expect a significant number
of migrants to come to Britain looking for work."

Up to 80 per cent of Moldovans live on less than GBP 1 a day and 90 per cent of
young people there say they want to leave, according to a UN report. A quarter
of the four million population already live and work abroad, with the money they
send home often their families' only source of income.

More than a million eastern Europeans came here after Britain opened its doors
to citizens from Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Czech Republic,
Hungary and Slovenia in 2004. Tens of thousands more came when Romania and
Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007.

The Home Offi ce has placed a restriction on the number of unskilled workers
allowed into Britain but there is no limit on the number of Romanians allowed in
as self-employed workers, students or tourists.

Last night the Home Office claimed only skilled workers would be let in.

A spokesman said: "It's essential that only those we need can come here and
work, which is why we decided to continue restricting the work Bulgarians and
Romanians can do."

Cristina Narcisa, press attache at the Romanian embassy in London, said: "We
have issued 100,000 Romanian passports to Moldovan citizens and they did not all
go to Britain. They are more likely to look for work in Italy, Spain or
Portugal."

She added: "It is unfortunate that this announcement to speed up passport
applications has come out now."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Moldovan protests sparked passport move by Traian Basescu, above left,
that was condemned by Nigel Farage, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 17, 2009 Friday 4:04 PM GMT

80% of British MEPs get publicly funded second pension

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 282 words


Good to see that at least 62, or 80 per cent, of Britain's 78 MEPs will get a
publicly funded second pension when they retire.

MEPs, because they're worth it

The leaders of all the political parties, Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrat
and Ukip are represented.

Fair enough, they are entitled to it and they must be worth it.

Hat tip to Open Europe for publishing the list (which is not exhaustive) - click
here.

Just to remind you how this scheme works.

Two thirds of this extra pension is paid for in supplementary payments by the
taxpayer.

MEPs pay £1052(1,194 euros) a month into the scheme. That cash is added to with
a publicly funded payment of £2104 (2388 euros).

But and it is a big BUT, at present the MEP's contribution is automatically
deducted from his or her office expenses.

There are no checks to ensure that it is paid back.

I am sure that all 62 British MEPs play by the rules.

No one would want wish to imply that any of Britain's representatives to the
European Parliament play fast and loose with any allowances or benefits.

MEPs, on reaching retirement age and leaving the parliament, can expect an extra
pension benefit, on top the same national scheme for Westminster MPs, worth an
annual £14,736 for every five year term of office.

An MEP, like Den Dover, benefiting from the perk can net a combined pension of
around £35,000 after just 10 years in office.

After the next European elections in June, no new MEP entrants will allowed to
sign up for the scheme under a new improved pay and perks package for Euro-MPs.

But all British incumbents, if re-elected, will continue to benefit from the
scheme. Life on the gravy train will carry on.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

TIM BRINTON;
ITN newsreader and TV personality who became a Conservative MP

BYLINE: Mary Barnes

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 918 words


Tim Brinton was a familiar face to many who watched him as one of the presenters
of Independent Television News between 1959 and 1962. His rugged good looks and
bright, breezy manner made him a popular figure, but his desire to broaden the
kind of television work available to him took him into documentaries, sports
broadcasts and Come Dancing (as popular then as Strictly Come Dancing is today).

One highlight of his broadcasting career was an interview with the Shah of Iran;
another, embarrassing at the time, but remembered with affection, was an
unintentional shot of Brinton plunging naked into a pool after a telecast from a
Turkish bath. In 1971 he returned to regular employment as the anchorman on
Southern Television's Scene South-East, but soon returned to freelancing. An
advertisement that he fronted in 1972, which dealt with the Heath government's
Housing Finance Act, was pulled by the Independent Broadcasting Authority after
Labour complained about its inaccuracy.

Brinton also appeared as an actor in various films, mainly cast as a news
presenter. Among them were Allez France (1964), Bunny Lake Is Missing (1965) Man
At The Top (1973) and Carry On Emmanuelle (1978). He also appeared in television
series, including Dixon Of Dock Green, The Power Game and The Avengers. However,
and perhaps to his own surprise, his most lasting fame came from a spoof
documentary, originally made as an April Fool's Day joke, which suggested that
scientists from this country were being shipped to the planet Mars. Alternative
Three, first screened in 1977, has become cult viewing.

Always a Conservative, although too professional to let it show, Brinton
embarked on a political career as a Kent county councillor in 1973, first in
shadow capacity, and in actuality from 1974 until 1981. Soon afterwards, he was
adopted as the prospective Conservative candidate for the highly marginal seat
of Gravesend. He gained the seat in 1979, won it again on revised boundaries in
1987, but stood down after only two terms for "personal and business reasons".
He became a broadcasting consultant, providing valuable training to businessmen
and politicians in how to handle interviews on television and radio. An
inveterate Eurosceptic, he had a brief flirtation with Sir James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party, but returned to the fold in 1996, certain that a Conservative
vote was the only way to secure a referendum and a proper decision on Europe.
That did not prevent him from becoming a supporter of UKIP in 2003.

Latterly, Brinton made headlines of a very different sort, when he disappeared
briefly from his home in Folkestone. It was revealed that he had been suffering
from Alzheimer's disease for five years. His wife and his daughter used the
episode to call for improvements in the way in which dementia was handled in
Britain.

Timothy Denis Brinton was born on 24 December 1929 at St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington. His father, Dr Denis Brinton, was a distinguished neurologist who
had married Joan Hood. Educated at Summer Fields, Eton and the University of
Geneva, Brinton did his national service with the Royal Scots and then studied
acting and production at the Central School of Speech and Drama. After failing
to secure an Equity card, he joined the BBC as a radio announcer in 1951 and was
seconded to Radio Hong Kong as head of English language programmes in 1957.
After returning to the BBC in London, he joined ITN in 1959. His career as a
freelancer began in 1962, but suffered a setback after his highly publicised
split with his wife Jane-Mari, the daughter of Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur
Coningham. The couple divorced, and in 1965 he married Jeanne Frances Wedge, who
shared his political interests and later served with him on Kent County Council.
Brinton's principal contribution to his political colleagues was the training he
offered them in the techniques to be used on television, but he also took an
active interest in education, backing Kent's successful attempt to keep its
grammar schools, and serving on the parliamentary select committee for education
from 1980-83. Given his views, it was surprising to find him backing the
abolition of O-Levels and the CSE in favour of a new examination, the GCSE.

Behind the scenes, Brinton was active in establishing a scheme for media
training at Conservative Central Office, and he did his best to persuade often
reluctant parliamentary colleagues to exploit the media opportunities open to
them. He served briefly as vice-chairman of the Conservative backbench education
committee in 1983, and was successively vice-chairman, and from 1983, chairman
of the Conservative backbench broadcasting committee.

Brinton was firmly against the commercialisation of the BBC, to the point where
he opposed an increase in the licence fee, claiming in 1984 that "the best thing
for the BBC to do is to stop trying to compete with the commercial boys and
abandon the bid for high ratings".

After he left the Commons to resume his business career, Brinton was made
chairman of the Dartford and Gravesham Health Authority from 1988-90. He served
on the Court (1979-95) and Council (1995-98) of the University of London and was
a governor of Wye College from 1989-97. He spent his last weeks in hospital and
died on 24 March 2009.

Timothy Denis Brinton, broadcaster and politician: born London, 24 December
1929; married 1954 Jane-Mari Coningham (marriage dissolved, one son, three
daughters), 1965 Jeanne Frances Wedge (two daughters); died Kent, 24 March 2009.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

FLYING OFF TO HOLS 'BAD AS DOING KNIFING';
TOURISM

BYLINE: AIDAN MCGURRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 163 words


THE Green Party's Euro leader yesterday caused outrage by claiming jetting off
on holiday to the Costas was the same as stabbing someone in the street.

Caroline Lucas said in a TV interview "binge flying" was destroying the
environment.

But UKIP's David Campbell- Bannerman challenged her allegation that tourism was
driving the growth of air travel.

And when he asked if flying to Spain was as bad as knifing a person in the
street, the Green's European parliament chief said: "Yes - because they are
dying from climate change." After the exchange during a debate about a third
Heathrow runway, prospective Eastern Counties MEP Mr Campbell- Bannerman said:
"I was shocked.

"There's no excuse for using extremist language to describe ordinary people
going by plane to a well-earned holiday. Calling it binge flying is absurd." Ms
Lucas also cited Britain as "the dirty old man of Europe" for its poor air
quality - claiming that London levels are now so low they breach Euro
standards..

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AIR RAGE Green Party's Lucas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

'Air travel is bad as stabbing'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


BRITS who fly to Spain on holiday are as bad as thugs who STAB people, claims
the leader of the Green Party.

Caroline Lucas made her outburst during a TV debate on plans for Heathrow's
third runway.

Asked if flying is as bad as knifing someone, the Euro MP said: "Yes.

People are dying from climate change. It's incredibly irresponsible." Ms Lucas
also hit out at "binge flying" and those who travel by air to second homes
abroad.

UK Independence Party MEP David Campbell- Bannerman, who also appeared on ITV's
Leaders of Europe, accused her of showing "fascist tendencies".

The Green Party said the comments were taken out of context..

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outburst ... Lucas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2

' Air travel is bad as stabbing'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


BRITS who fly to Spain on holiday are as bad as thugs who STAB people, claims
the leader of the Green Party.

Caroline Lucas made her outburst during a TV debate on plans for Heathrow's
third runway.

Asked if flying is as bad as knifing someone, the Euro MP said: "Yes.

People are dying from climate change. It's incredibly irresponsible." Ms Lucas
also hit out at " binge flying" and those who travel by air to second homes
abroad.

UK Independence Party MEP David Campbell- Bannerman, who also appeared on ITV's
Leaders of Europe, accused her of showing " fascist tendencies".

The Green Party said the comments were taken out of context..

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outburst ... Lucas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 12, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Privacy or safety: it's your choice;
THINK TANK NEW IDEAS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY The liberty lobby conveniently forgets
that the state needs our data to protect us, writes David Goodhart

BYLINE: David Goodhart

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 844 words


We are not living in a police state. Not even a remotely authoritarian one. In
fact we, all of us, have never enjoyed so much liberty - personal, political and
legal. Yet to assert this view sets one at odds with a large part of liberal
opinion in Britain.

In the run-up to the Convention on Modern Liberty in February, the liberal press
was filled with cries of anguish from leading writers and intellectuals - Philip
Pullman evoked "sleeping Albion" as new laws supposedly strangled old freedoms;
Anthony Barnett talked about a "system crisis"; Henry Porter claimed we had only
"two years" before it would be too late.

When I read the litany of complaint against the government, I felt unmoved: 42
days' detention without charge and control orders (which apply to just 15
people)? True, 42 days (rejected by parliament) is a long time, but suspects are
under constant judicial review - and both measures were a response to a real
threat, something that never seems to feature in the liberty lobby discourse.

Then there is the surveillance state - CCTV cameras and DNA databases.

Nowhere have I heard of innocent people suffering injustice as a result of
either technology and, as the father of four children who often travel on their
own around London, I find the cameras reassuring (on some estimates half of all
British transport police convictions are won thanks to CCTV evidence).

These are not normal times: the combination of new technology and the
ever-rising expectations that the public have of state services means that we
are unavoidably living in a new era of the database state and a cool,
technocratic debate is required to establish its parameters. The shrill
politicisation of the liberty lobby makes this harder.

We are moving from a world of privacy by default to one in which privacy must be
designed into our systems. The modern social democratic state needs lots of data
about us in order to fulfil the demands we make on it; not just trivial things
like our bank account details to pay in pensions or tax credits but more
personal things like health records - to make sure we get the right treatment at
the right time.

If there is too much suspicion of the state and too many data protection rules,
the state cannot give us what we want.

Equally, if there are inadequate rules to protect the sensitive information
about citizens, there is the potential for abuse, accidentally or intentionally.
At present we risk getting the worst of both worlds.

There are countless examples of good public-service ideas that are falling foul
of unnecessary restrictions. In Southwark, south London, for example, there has
been a successful experiment with a "one-stop shop" bereavement service that
helps (often old) people deal with all the bureaucratic complications when a
close relative dies. It was hoped this would be extended to the whole country,
but as different rules govern various national databases, they cannot share
information with one another. Jack Straw, the justice secretary, tried to change
this but had to scrap the idea after coming under pressure from civil liberties
groups.

There are challenges ahead - such as who should be on the DNA database and how
the new database to monitor web use should be overseen - and the government has
not set out clear and principled positions on these or many other aspects of the
database state. It is also true that parts of the state, in particular the
police and local authorities, sometimes take a cavalier attitude to the existing
protections.

Nonetheless, the liberty lobby is unimaginatively one-sided. People want privacy
where it matters, but they are also prepared to trade it off for other things -
such as safety from terrorism, or to stop tragedies like Baby P. In fact, people
happily give up their privacy every day to private or public bodies in return
for the smallest convenience. Take Google's new Latitude website. It allows you
to register your mobile phone. If you do this, and your friends do too, you can
see where everyone is on a map, located by the chips in the phones. On a night
out in central London, or in downtown New York, this could be useful: has
everyone got to the party or are they already moving on? Latitude has caused a
minor storm among the privacy lobby - but it will be popular.

It might be useful if we started to see our data as similar to tax, something we
willingly surrender to the authorities in return for various benefits, but over
which there is also a political negotiation about how much to surrender. The
liberty lobby, in this analogy, becomes the TaxPayers' Alliance of the database
state - wanting individuals to hoard their data and leave the state powerless to
serve citizens as it could.

By turning these complex debates into a story of noble defenders of liberty
versus power-grabbing tyrants (whether politicians or officials), the liberty
lobby reinforces the lazy anti-politics of the age - a sort of UK Independence
party for the chattering classes.

David Goodhart is the editor of Prospect, in which a longer version of this
article appears

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 11, 2009 Saturday

BNP HAS NEVER BEEN STRONGER SAYS HARMAN

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL LEA

LENGTH: 431 words


THE British National Party poses its biggest electoral threat yet as anger over
job cuts and immigration grows, Harriet Harman warned yesterday.

She raised the alarm as the far-Right party snatched a surprise second place in
a council byelection in one of its main target areas for the forthcoming polls
for the European Parliament.

The BNP is almost certain to win two or three seats in the European elections,
which are fought under a proportional representation system based on huge
regional constituencies.

And Labour Party chairman and deputy leader Miss Harman admitted: 'It is a
worry. Certainly they are a bigger threat than they have been before.'

She delivered her warning after a campaign visit to the North West, one of the
areas where the BNP is strongest and where its leader, Nick Griffin, is hopeful
of becoming an MEP.

The BNP also has a strong presence in Yorkshire and the Humber and the East and
West Midlands.

To counter the threat, Labour is mobilising at local level wherever there is a
sign of heavy BNP activity. It is also teaming up with anti-fascist groups and
sending in anti-BNP 'battlebuses'.

'Most people are not aware the BNP is standing,' said Miss Harman, who is
heading Labour's campaign for European and local elections on June 4.

'It is below the radar. There is very low public awareness of these elections.
For us, it is a question of pointing out the dangers of the BNP, which now wears
suits but whose ideology is as pernicious as ever.' Under the complex
proportional representation formula for European elections, the BNP could land
seats by winning between only 9 per cent and 12 per cent of the vote.

'The electoral system makes it more of a challenge for us,' Miss Harman told The
Independent newspaper. 'We are telling people to come out and vote or else they
will let the BNP in.'

Proof of the threat in the North West came this week when the BNP came from
nowhere to poll more than 23 per cent for a seat on Manchester City Council.

Although Labour held the Moston ward, the Tories slumped to fourth place in what
was their third best prospect of winning a seat on the authority.

Old Labour MPs fear the party will pay a price for neglecting white
working-class voters.

Greater concern, however, comes from the collapse in support for the UK
Independence Party since the last elections five years ago.

In 2004, the anti-Brussels party won 12 seats with 16 per cent of the vote.

Its supporters are now expected to switch either to the Tories or the BNP, which
has raised 6170,000 towards its 6220,000 target for its campaign fund for the
European elections.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 10, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

'The BNP are now a bigger threat than ever';
Labour fears the far right will win its first European seats in June, Harriet
Harman tells Andrew Grice

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1202 words


Labour is facing its biggest threat from the BNP, Harriet Harman admits today,
as the party gears up to prevent the far right group from winning its first
seats in nationwide elections this June for the European Parliament.

In an interview with The Independent Ms Harman, the Leader of the Commons, who
is heading Labour's election effort in in her role as the party's chairman and
deputy leader, said Labour was launching its biggest-ever campaign targeting the
BNP. "It is a worry," she said. "Certainly they [the BNP] are a bigger threat
than they have been before."

Labour fears the BNP could land two or three seats in the European elections,
which are fought under a proportional representation (PR) system based on huge
regional constituencies. Labour believes the BNP threat is greatest in the North
West, where its leader, Nick Griffin, is a candidate; Yorkshire and the Humber
and the East and West Midlands.

Labour is mobilising at local level wherever there is a sign of heavy BNP
activity. National funding has been provided for "Stop the BNP" leaflets, and
Labour uses a different slogan - "fairness not fear" - rather than its national
theme of "winning the fight for Britain's future". It is also linking up with
anti-fascist groups such as Searchlight and sending anti-BNP battlebuses into
areas targeted by the group.

However, Labour leaders have rejected calls from many of their own MPs to launch
a full-frontal national attack on the BNP, fearing that would merely play into
the party's hands by giving it "the oxygen of publicity".

Labour insists it is matching the BNP at its own game - by fighting it at local
level. "Most people are not aware the BNP is standing," Ms Harman said yesterday
after a campaign visit to the North West. "It is below the radar. There is very
low public awareness of these elections. For us, it is a question of pointing
out the dangers of the BNP, which now wears suits but whose ideology is as
pernicious as ever."

She said Labour's challenge was to persuade its supporters to vote even when
they thought their area was "safe Labour ". They will be told that would help
the BNP, which could land seats under the complex PR formula used by winning
between nine and 12 per cent of the votes. "The electoral system makes it more
of a challenge for us," she said. "We are telling people every vote counts, to
come out and vote or else they will let the BNP in."

Some Labour MPs fear the party will pay a price for neglecting white
working-class voters. Ms Harman is more diplomatic. "It is very important for
the party to be active, to say to people we are on your doorstep, on the phone,
on your side," she said. "The party is focused on the BNP in this election in a
way it hasn't been previously. But the solution is not just mobilising young
people or mobilising in a particular region."

She argued that the BNP had won council seats after an impressive campaign but
then been unseated at next election. "There is a pattern of them getting
elected, [and] not delivering what they said they would," she said.

Elections also take place in county councils in England on 4 June. The last
three times these seats were up for grabs, the poll coincided with a general
election - helping Labour, which traditionally benefits from a higher turnout.
Similarly, Labour's performance in the last European elections in 2004 was
helped by experiments with postal votes, which also raised turnout.

All parties play down expectations ahead of such elections, in the hope they can
claim on the night. they have performed better than expected. Labour officials
insist they have reason to fear a "double whammy" this year: an anti-government
protest vote due to the recession and a turnout which could easily drop to
around 30 per cent.

"There is always a danger of low turnouts in European elections," Ms Harman
admitted. "People know what their council and their government does for them.
They are not quite clear yet what the European Parliament means to them. A low
turnout does not help us."

Despite such fears, Ms Harman insisted that the elections provide "a real
opportunity" for Labour to spell out the dividing lines with the Conservative
Party. "We are not on the defensive; we are on the front foot," she said.

She believes the Tories' recent talk of a public spending squeeze to balance the
nation's books if they win power allows Labour to run campaigns about which
local services would be at risk. "It is a good opportunity to be highlighting
what the recent Tory pronouncements would mean," she said.

Because of the recession, Ms Harman conceded that the June polls would be
"challenging" for the Government, and acknowledged that it needed to explain how
Gordon Brown's strong leadership at last week's G20 summit would help them in
their daily lives.

Admitting people were "apprehensive" about the economy, she said: "People
understand the argument Gordon is making about the need to take action. They
have worries about how it will affect the future of public services. They have
seen the investment going in, and know the Tories would cut it."

Ms Harman told Labour MPs at a private meeting that the June elections would be
a "dry run" for the general election. In public, she played that down, knowing
commentators will be eager to say heavy Labour losses in June mean the party
cannot win a general election. She pointed out that Labour has done poorly in
local and European contests before, only to win the following general election.
"It is an opportunity to get our message across," she said."But it is a very
different kettle of fish because of the turnout issue." She admitted Labour's
budget would be tight - even though the party's treasurer, Jack Dromey, is her
husband. "We are mobilising human resources," she said.

The BNP said yesterday it had raised £170,000 towards its £220,000 target for
its campaign fund for the European elections. "This will be the day the people
of this country say, 'that's it ... enough is enough!' and will vote for the
British National Party in their millions," it said.

Election facts

* Elections take place on 4 June for the European Parliament and county
councils.

* In the last European elections in 2004, the Tories won 27 seats and 27 per
cent of the vote; Labour 19 seats (23 per cent); the UK Independence Party (Ukip
) 12 seats (16 per cent) and the Liberal Democrats 12 seats (15 per cent).

* Ukip's fortunes have declined since. Labour and the Tories suspect most voters
who switch from Ukip will go to the Tories, although Labour fears some could
back the BNP.

* Some 2,300 council seats in 34 English local authorities will be contested -
on 27 county councils and seven in all-purpose "unitary" authorities.

* There are no local elections in Scotland or Wales this year.

* The Tories, traditionally strong in the counties, are defending about 1,200
seats. Labour, which is defending about 490 seats, fears it will lose about half
and lose control of all its four counties - Staffordshire, Lancashire,
Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire. The Liberal Democrats are defending about 500
seats.

* Experts say the Tories need to win more than 40 per cent of the national vote
to show David Cameron is on track to win the general election.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday

Feature - New left openings?;
Generally Speaking. Why the People's Charter and NO2EU should be embraced

BYLINE: Robert Griffiths

LENGTH: 1314 words


Two recent political initiatives could open up new perspectives for left and
labour movement advance in Britain.

The launch of the People's Charter for Change has brought together a wide range
of democrats, progressives, trade unionists and socialists. Within a few months,
it has already gained the backing of union leaders in PCS, RMT, POA and FBU,
political organisations from the Labour Representation Committee to Respect and
the Communist Party, social movements such as Southall Black Sisters and the
Indian Workers Association (GB), plus prominent figures on the left such as Tony
Benn, MPs Alan Simpson, Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell, film-maker Ken Loach,
comedian Mark Steel and Plaid Cymru assembly member Leanne Wood.

An important aim of the campaign is to win up to a million signatures for the
charter by the next general election. Achieving this would involve levels of
activity that could politicise and mobilise large numbers of people around a
popular anti-monopoly, anti-militarist and green agenda.

It would help create the political climate in which maximum pressure could be
brought to bear on the manifestos, candidates and debates of the general
election.

At a time when many people feel a mixture of anger, despair and powerlessness,
the charter proposes a programme for struggle and throws down a challenge to
neoliberal policies and big-business power.

But in presenting its demands on the broadest possible basis, the People's
Charter movement has so far been shunned by elements of the far-left which
prefer radical rhetoric to mass engagement with the working class around a
radical agenda.

Some ultra-leftists even accuse the Communist Party of using its position in the
movement to bury the objective of replacing capitalism with socialism.

In fact, the contrary is the case. Only by winning widespread popular
understanding of the need for policies like those in the People's Charter will
we create the mass basis for a revolutionary challenge to capitalist state
power.

While the Communists and other socialists involved in the initiative will
continue to project their goals of working-class state power and socialism in
their own independent political work, the traditional vocabulary of the left is
not always the most effective language with which to address millions of workers
and their families.

For all the popular anger aimed at the bankers and Establishment politicians,
very few people in Britain today believe that "socialism" is the answer or even
understand what socialism is or could be. And still less are they committed to
the serious struggle and strategy required to achieve fundamental change.

That understanding will grow, of course, although not as the result of louder
shouting from the sidelines.

The self-exclusion of sectarian elements will not harm the People's Charter
campaign. More disturbing, and much more baffling, is the reluctance so far of
some trade union leaders to join it.

Only a high-powered microscope and micro-surgical tweezers could extract any
differences between the policies of the People's Charter and those of most of
Britain's biggest trade unions.

Some labour movement figures argue that the charter goes beyond their own union
policy by calling for public ownership of the financial sector and public
transport and by implication the airlines.

Well, we are already well on the way to public ownership of most of the banks.
Like the money markets, they are only being kept afloat by the £1,200 billion of
public funds that could not be found to keep open Remploy factories and post
offices, renationalise the railways or keep the profiteers out of the Royal
Mail, the NHS and our schools and prisons.

And which union is going to take its stand against the People's Charter on the
ground that British Airways should remain in the hands of union-bashing
strike-breakers?

There are also fears in some quarters that the People's Charter could be used to
embarrass the Labour Party in the run-up to the general election.

Embarrassing the Labour Party - nay, taking an axe to its roots and blighting
almost beyond cure its chances of forming the next government - is something new
Labour has already done without any help from the People's Charter.

Of course, the charter's policies, like those of the TUC and most of its
affiliated unions, oppose many aspects of the rotten, anti-working class,
authoritarian and warmongering record of new Labour. But they give no comfort to
the Tories or Liberal Democrats either.

A guilty silence about that record, or efforts to dress it up in brighter
clothes and contrast it to Tory bogeymen, will not fool a deeply disillusioned
working-class electorate.

A reinvigorated popular movement around left and progressive demands would, on
the other hand, at least give the Labour Party the opportunity to respond
positively to a more positive mood.

Whether it would take that opportunity depends, at least in part, on whether the
leaders of Labour-affiliated unions are prepared to put up more of a fight for
the many policies their unions already share with the People's Charter.

The second major initiative of recent months is the No2EU - Yes to Democracy
platform being put forward for the European Parliament elections on June 4.

Although wholly distinct from the People's Charter, this initiative broadly
shares the same popular democratic and anti-monopoly character.

But No2EU places greater emphasis on the additional threat posed to democratic
and workers' rights by the drive to a militarist, imperialist United State of
Europe.

It also offers a working-class and internationalist alternative to the
reactionary "anti-EU" politics of UKIP and the far-right BNP.

Indeed, anti-racist and anti-fascist campaigning will be one of the defining
features of the No2EU intervention in these elections.

So far, the platform has won support from the RMT union, the Communist Party,
the Socialist Party, the Indian Workers Association (GB), the Alliance for Green
Socialism, Scottish Solidarity, the anti-EU, anti-SDP Liberal Party and a range
of local Trades Councils and anti-EU groups.

A growing number of trade union activists at every level of the labour movement
are also coming out publicly in support of No2EU, although Labour Party
affiliation or lack of policy on the EU has restricted official backing from
other unions.

The usual ultra-left sectarian groups have, on other hand, attacked this
initiative and its platform for being "anti-socialist," "British nationalist,"
"popular frontist" and the like.

Yet No2EU will have the most consistent perspective for working-class and
popular struggle against new Labour and EU neoliberalism, against racism and the
BNP, for democratic and workers' rights, of any force in the forthcoming
elections.

As the campaign moves into action across Britain, it could also be building a
movement for the future which will contribute positively to the process of left
unity, based on mass struggle for left and anti-imperialist policies.

For this process to continue after June 4, it would be necessary to develop
wider unity in action - whether for the People's Charter, for jobs and public
services, against Trident and war - involving wide sections of the left in the
Labour Party, Labour-affiliated unions, the Greens, Plaid Cymru and the SNP that
are unwilling or unable to change their current electoral alignments.

That is why No2EU should not be seen as the mass electoral alternative to Labour
at the next general election but as an important stream feeding into a resurgent
left and labour movement.

This will be the best basis on which to resolve the current crisis of
working-class political representation.

In different ways, both the People's Charter and No2EU platform can help
regenerate the left in Britain. But both apologetics for new Labour on the one
side, and ultra-left posturing and impatience on the other, will have to be
resisted.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday

TOP BRITISH JUDGE ACCUSES HUMAN RIGHTS COURT OF CREATING 'FEDERAL LAW OF EUROPE'

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN PETRE AND SIMON MCGEE

LENGTH: 732 words


ONE of Britain's most senior judges has launched a fierce attack on the European
Court of Human Rights, accusing it of straying beyond its role and seeking to
create a 'federal law of Europe'.

Lord Hoffmann, the second most senior Law Lord, said he supported the adoption
of human rights legislation by Britain but stressed that it should be for this
country's courts to apply it, not judges in Strasbourg.

The judge, no stranger to controversy, said European rulings that reversed
domestic decisions were 'teaching grandmothers to suck eggs'.

He stressed that detailed rulings concerning the British legal system should be
made in London.

In comments that were praised by critics of the Human Rights Court, Lord
Hoffmann said it had 'been unable to resist the temptation to aggrandise its
jurisdiction and impose uniform rules on member states'.

He told the Judicial Studies Board: 'It considers itself the equivalent of the
Supreme Court of the United States, laying down a federal law of Europe.'

The judge added that the court, which was set up in 1959 to consider cases
brought against countries bound by the European Convention on Human Rights,
risked being 'overwhelmed' by a backlog of 100,000 cases.

Individuals can appeal to the court if they feel they have been denied justice
in their own countries after they have exhausted their own judicial processes.

Lord Hoffmann, regarded as one of the cleverest judges of his generation, said
the court had intervened on issues such as the right to silence, the use of
hearsay evidence and even night flights at Heathrow Airport, which he said
sounded 'about as far from human rights as you can get'.

He referred to one case in which a doctor was charged with indecent assault on
two patients, one of them committing suicide after making a statement to the
police. The doctor was convicted after the judge had admitted the dead woman's
statement, and the conviction was upheld by the Court of Appeal but overturned
by the Strasbourg court, a decision Lord Hoffmann described as 'quite
extraordinary'.

Lord Hoffmann also questioned the court's 'constitutional legitimacy', saying
its judges were elected by a committee chaired by a Latvian politician (Boriss
Cilevics) and whose British representatives were 'a Labour politician with a
trade union background and no legal qualifications' (Lord Tomlinson) and 'a
Conservative politician who was called to the Bar in 1972 but so far as I know
never practised' (Christopher Chope MP).

South African-born Lord Hoffmann, who is soon to retire, denied he was engaged
in ' populist Euroscepticism' as he was not questioning the existence of the
court but rather its scope and the 'wisdom or even correctness' of some
decisions.

'We remain an independent nation with its own legal system, evolved over
centuries of constitutional struggle and pragmatic change,' he said. 'I do not
suggest that the United Kingdom's legal system is perfect but I do argue that
detailed decisions about how it could be improved should be made in London,
either by our democratic institutions or by judicial bodies which, like the
Supreme Court of the United States, are integral with our own society and
respected as such.'

Critics of the court said Lord Hoffmann's comments echoed their own
reservations. The former Labour Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer told BBC Radio 4:
'It may be doing what it conceives to be its job but there are dangers if you
start to deal too much in the detail.

'Focus on the important big issues, not trying to say "I think the law should be
a little bit like this or a little bit like that . . ."'

Shadow Justice Secretary Dominic Grieve said: 'It is interesting that concerns
we have about the operation of the European Court of Human Rights are shared by
one of the most senior members of the judiciary.'

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'EU leaders are creating a
single conception of justice which demolishes our common law that has served
freedom well for 1,000 years.'

But Labour MEP Richard Corbett said: 'His claim that the court represents a
"federal law of Europe" simply isn't true.'

And the director of the pressure group Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, said that if
Strasbourg was fallible, it was even more important to resist calls to scrap the
controversial Human Rights Act, which was introduced by the Labour Government in
1998 and allowed British judges to rules on such issues.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday

Reality dawns for struggling Labour

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Commentary; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 459  words


CABINET ministers hoping that Gordon Brown would enjoy a lie-in after his
exertions at the G20 the night before were disappointed yesterday morning.

They were woken for a Downing Street conference call at an hour one minister
described as "far too early for me''.

Several were immediately given the task of chasing down the British commitments
tied to the final communiqué from the London summit.

One crumb of comfort that the sleep-deprived ministers may wish to gather is Mr
Brown's promise to take a few days off next week and return to Scotland while
Parliament is in recess.

However, it is unlikely that his mind will stray far from what he faces in the
next few weeks.

The Prime Minister has to help guide a Budget process that can deliver a
financial statement on April 22 that somehow avoids being seen as one of the
gloomiest and depressing in a generation.

While Mr Brown championed the G20 deal, there was one notable omission from its
conclusion. The world did not agree a second fiscal stimulus.

And last week Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England, poured cold
water on any idea that Britain could afford more tax-cutting due to the parlous
state of the public finances.

Until then, the assumption had been that Mr Brown would enthusiastically pursue
a second round of tax cuts in the Budget to follow the

VAT cut introduced last autumn.

But, after being brought up short by both Mr King and the G20, the PM's sights
have been reset. In place of wide-ranging tax cuts there will be targeted
measures. It means that there will be help for certain industries.

There will also be the now familiar nod towards helping green technologies.
Those just below pensioner age who fear that they might lose their jobs and not
get another one are also the subject of much thought in the Treasury.

But no one expects the Budget story to be anything other than a bad one for the
Government.

With no money for big giveaways, Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, will revise
growth forecasts and raise borrowing to even more apocalyptic levels.

The Tories will focus almost solely on the debt issue, while the Chancellor will
hope that his number crunchers can come up with figures that might show how the
situation would have been even worse without the first fiscal stimulus.

As spring becomes summer the European elections in June are likely to be very
bad for Labour. Both the BNP and UKIP are hoping to channel the public anger
simmering over a range of issues.

But the Prime Minister still hopes that the darkest days could be over and by
late autumn there may be creeping signs of optimism.

David Cameron will continue to be characterised by Labour as a lightweight.
However, the reality remains that the next election is the Conservative leader's
to lose.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday

Secret Britain: Hundreds of hidden things to see and do: Kids' stuff: Amazing
geography: Islands: Many of our tiniest and least-known islands thrive with rare
species

BYLINE: Jessica Cargill-Thompson, Nick Maes, Christopher Somerville, Carlene
Thomas-Bailey

SECTION: GUARDIAN MAGAZINE SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 500 words


Isle of May, Scotland

A tapering silhouette in the Firth of Forth, the Isle of May is uninhabited save
for scientists and seabirds. From April to September, though, it can be visited
in a day trip by ferry from the Fife mainland. Just 1.5km long and half a
kilometre wide, the isle is home to the ruins of a 12th-century monastery, the
oldest lighthouse in Scotland, built in 1636, and the UK's biggest puffin
colony: spot them between April and August. Fulmars, shags, oystercatchers,
gulls, terns and guillemots thrive too, and grey seals breed in the offshore
reefs.

Boats sail once a day from Anstruther harbour, Fife; 01333 310103,
isleofmayferry.com,

snh.org.uk

Canvey island, Essex

Canvey Island is different. It is different for its commitment to all things
Canvey, from the unremarkable football club to the pub-rock band Dr Feelgood,
which local fans insist is better than the Stones. Its population has an
unerring attraction to "independent" politics, so elects a majority of
"independent" councillors and has a UKIP MP.

The most modern thing about the island, Dr Feelgood notwithstanding, is the
Labworth Cafe, the only architectural work of the engineer Ove Arup. He built it
in 1932-3, in the era when architects believed that the purity of the modern
movement could save the world and Canvey Islanders thought they could make it as
a seaside resort.

canveyisland.co.uk

Isle of Walney, Cumbria

Nestled between the Duddon estuary and Morcambe Bay, and connected to the
mainland by a bridge is the Isle of Walney with a population of 12-13,000.
Norsemen inhabited the island during the ninth century, then the plague wiped
out many inhabitants in the 1600s.

It's a pretty place of bays and saltmarshes, two nature reserves, where you can
spot kestrels and dunlins, butterflies and natterjack toads.

Bus services to Walney Island from Barrow-in-Furness or follow the A590.
Barrow-in-Furness tourist information centre: 01229 876 505 CTB

Piel Island, Cumbria

Get out to 20-acre Piel Island, off the coast of Barrow-in-Furness, by boat or
on foot. The landlord of the island's pub is known as the "king" and he'll
knight anyone who sits in his oak chair and takes part in a ceremony. The pub is
currently closed for renovation but you can stroll along the beautiful empty
beach.

07516453784, OS map ref: SD 234639 CS

Machair, Hebrides

This beautiful phenomenon of wildflower meadows is unique to the remote shores
of the Outer Hebrides, Orkney and Ireland.

One of the rarest habitats in Europe, it is famed among botanists for its rare
orchids, and the riot of colour created by eyebrights, wild carrot, marsh
marigolds, silverweed and more.

The machair soil is unusually fertile, being composed of 90% crushed shells,
blown inland over the peaty soil, held together by tough maram grass. Among the
flowers hop wetland birds such as corncrake and ringed plover.

It's under threat from storms, rising sea levels, and tourists, so tread
lightly.

On South Harris, head for Seilebost, Horgabost, or Taobh Tuath JCT

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 3, 2009 Friday

Byelection results show next election may not be Tory walkover

LENGTH: 441 words

ABSTRACT

David Hencke: Results in local council polls show complex picture

FULL TEXT

While the polls are pointing to an inevitable Labour defeat at next year's
general election, a more complex picture is emerging from the way people are
actually voting in local council byelections.

Of course, low turnout and local issues might be equally distorting the picture
and Gordon Brown may be doomed to a defeat that will compete with John Major's
demise, but the trend in the last month has suggested that support for the
Tories is not as solid as it should be, and the Liberal Democrats are punching
above their national opinion poll weight.

And some of the smaller parties are attracting more support - particularly the
British National party, but also Ukip and independent groupings.

Labour did badly in last night's byelections, down in all four seats it fought
in Arun, Calderdale, Camden and Leeds. But two results in Redditch last week,
where Labour gained a seat from the Tories on a 12.4% swing in home secretary
Jacqui Smith's marginal constituency, went the other way. In March large numbers
of voters turned out in Stafford to support Labour and halve the Tory majority
in a safe Tory seat. Why bother?

In the rest of England, a 2% swing back to Labour from the Conservatives,
compared to the last local elections, is recorded in byelections in Oxford and
Norwich - admittedly the latter in a seat the Tories gained and held this month.

The Tories did do well last week in Newham, where they nearly gained a seat from
Labour in the Royal Docks with a 7% swing. But nearly 100 votes there went to an
independent group, the Christian People's Alliance, depriving the Tories of a
gain.

The Liberal Democrats are still doing well in Devon, with one gain in Honiton
from the Tories and one in North Devon from an independent.

The BNP managed 370 votes in North East Lincolnshire, not far from where the
Total refinery demonstrations took place over "British jobs for British
workers". The Conservative vote fell slightly, the Labour vote held up, and the
Liberal Democrats, who held the seat, got more votes than they did a year ago.
In Melton in Rutland the BNP polled 120 votes, pushing Labour into fourth place.
The Tory vote fell compared to 2007. The Tories gained Temple Newsam in Leeds
last night from Labour and the BNP came second.

Ukip is also recording over 100 votes where it stands. Yesterday it came close
in Huntingdonshire, coming just 106 votes behind the Tories and pushing the Lib
Dems into third place.

All this may be nothing or it may be straws in the wind that the next general
election will not be a guaranteed walkover for the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Post hero MEP bid

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 69 words


THE postmaster sacked for refusing to serve non- English speakers is set to
stand as a Euro MP.

Sri Lankan-born Deva Kumarasiri, 40, is running for the UK Independence Party in
June's election after talks with leader Nick Farage.

Father-of-two Deva, of Nottingham, said: "I'll campaign for newcomers to Britain
to learn English and seek to persuade them that integration is absolutely vital
to the country's future."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday

I haven't read EU treaty, says Minister for Europe

BYLINE: Rosa Prince Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371  words


CAROLINE FLINT, the Minister for Europe, has admitted that she has not read the
Lisbon Treaty, the controversial document which codifies the rules of the
European Union.

In a surprise confession during a House of Commons debate, she told MPs that she
had been "briefed'' on parts of the treaty, which replaced but resembles the
failed EU constitution.

Her declaration, which led to gasps from MPs, came after Miss Flint was asked
during the debate if she had read the elements of the treaty that related to
defence. She replied: "I have read some of it but not all of it.''

Critics described her admission as "extraordinary'' and "unbelievable'',
particularly given that her responsibilities include overseeing the introduction
of the treaty.

Mark Francois, the Tory Europe spokesman, said: "It is not every day that
someone will admit they haven't read the most important document for their job.

"Her astonishing admission does leave some questions. How does she know if the
treaty is good for Britain if she hasn't read it?''

The treaty was due to be ratified by all of the EU's 27 member states by the end
of last year, but its fate is in the balance after it was rejected by the Irish
in a referendum.

The Government's refusal to grant the public a vote on the treaty has proved
controversial.

Lorraine Mullally, director of the anti-EU think-tank Open Europe, said: "This
is an unbelievable admission. It is extremely worrying that the minister
responsible for promoting the treaty has no idea what it actually says.

"Perhaps this explains why she is against giving the British people the vote on
it they were promised - she simply has no idea how important it is.''

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, added: "A minister being in
this position of simply not being bothered is staggeringly insulting to the
people she is supposed to represent.

"She joins a long list of politicians who have urged us to vote for or accept
such EU treaties without straining their intellects by reading or understanding
them.''

Ken Clarke, the shadow business secretary, admitted that he had not read the
1992 Maastricht Treaty, which created the EU, despite leading the pro-Europe
camp of the Conservative party throughout the 1990s.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GREAT BRIT DE VA TO STAND A S MP

BYLINE: by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; 12

LENGTH: 239 words


THE Great Brit postmaster sacked after banning customers who could not speak
English is standing as an MEP.

Deva Kumarasiri, 40, will be a candidate in June's Euro-elections for the United
Kingdom Independence Party.

He won the Daily Star's first ever Great Brit award last month after barring
immigrants who have not bothered to learn the lingo from a Post Office in
Sneinton, Nottingham.

The dad-of-two, who came here from Sri Lanka 18 years ago, was asked to stand by
UKIP leader Nigel Farage.

Deva said: "Nigel got in touch and invited me to London for a chat and we very
quickly found that we had lots in common.

"I had no hesitation in joining UKIP and agreeing to stand for them in the Euro
elections, because I want to get elected and speak up for Britain. There are
only nine weeks before voting, so there's a lot of work to be done.

"My priorities will be to save the pound and to push for British jobs for
British workers.

"I'll campaign for newcomers to Britain to learn English and seek to persuade
them that integration is absolutely vital to the country's future." Deva
admitted he faced a "daunting task" to win one of six East Midlands seats.

But he said: "It's a great opportunity to get my message across."

Mr Farage said: "Deva is someone who has passion, belief and patriotism.

"This may be his first blooding in national politics, but he has struck a chord
with many people in this country and is a guy who is going places."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EURO STAR: Deva

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
