
                               1 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday

Why Irish ayes are smiling over the Lisbon Treaty vote

BYLINE: Sarah Carey Dublin

SECTION: FEATURES; WORLD STAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 819  words


Friday the 13th June 2008, Ireland. How appropriate. Shocked broadcasters
reporting live from count centres tell us that the referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty will be defeated. My sister drops in looking shifty. "I was just making a
statement. I didn't know everyone else was going to make one too.'' Later, a
friend is defensive and shrill, "Look, I'll vote 'yes' the next time, but I was
so sick of them getting their own way all the time.'' For we knew, before the
official result had even been declared, that there would be a next time. When
asked the question, there was only one right answer.

Who did we think we were, voting the wrong way? Hadn't the entire political
establishment (well, except for Sinn Fein, and they hardly count) insisted that
only a Yes would do? But the people begged to differ.

The people were angry. Although a recession had yet to be formally announced;
although Lehman's had yet to fall; although the quiet redundancies had yet to
make the headlines, we knew in our bones that it had all gone horribly wrong.
Our economy was a train wreck in the making and when we looked to the
government, what did we see?

In April, the Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, had finally resigned after months of
embarrassing disclosures to a tribunal of inquiry into his personal finances. In
May, his successor Brian Cowen was elected and revelled in the celebrations.
Just four weeks before the vote, he was on the back of a trailer in his home
town of Clara, Co Offaly, belting out an Irish ballad.

In a climate of disgust at such self-indulgent behaviour, the No lobby seized
the opportunity and ran a colourful and effective campaign that attacked the
treaty from all sides.

Lisbon would introduce abortion, immigrants, gay marriage and conscription to an
EU army. We'd lose a commissioner, control of tax policy and, in one
particularly bizarre claim, the EU would detain three-year-olds (although we
were never quite clear why they might want to do this). The most convincing
argument was the simplest - "If you don't know, vote No''. And who knew?

The Lisbon Treaty is a complex series of hundreds of amendments to existing
treaties. We were told that it would enable an enlarged Union to function more
effectively and even transparently. But hardly anyone understands the text and a
casual admission from the new Taoiseach that he hadn't read the document did not
serve to build confidence. Our EU Commissioner, Charlie McCreevy, confessed that
not only had he not read the treaty, but "would not expect any sane person to do
so''.

The Noes included Socialists, Shinners, shrieking Greens, UKIP and conservative
anti-abortion campaigners. Not the sort with whom well-behaved middle-class
liberals would normally associate. They needed someone presentable who could
intelligently articulate the anger that they were being taken for granted by a
lazy political establishment willing to sign the dotted line without reading the
small print.

From apparently nowhere Declan Ganley, a Galway businessman, emerged as the
respectable face of No. Politicians and even the media questioned his right to
take part in the debate.

What was up with that English accent? How was he funding his new political
organisation Libertas?

His telecommunications company won contracts from the US Department of Defense
for deployment in Iraq, implying he was a stalking horse for US neo-cons who
feared a strong European Union. The attacks wouldn't stick and Ganley stuck to
his argument - Lisbon created a fundamental democratic deficit in which
unelected officials in Brussels would control Ireland against its better
interests. It was the excuse the electorate needed.

But as the inevitable second campaign has kicked into gear over the past few
months, all has changed utterly. If confusion defeated Lisbon I then
clarification would help to pass Lisbon II. A list of "guarantees'' aimed at
dismissing the more outlandish claims of the No side was secured from the
Commission and sold as a triumph. The government even secured a promise that
Ireland will retain a permanent commissioner.

Although the Taoiseach now claims to have read the treaty, he and his unpopular
ministers have stood back from the Yes campaign, which is being led by respected
academics, business leaders and retired statesmen. The barrister Frank Clarke,
chairman of the neutral Referendum Commission, explained the technicalities of
qualified majority voting.

But the real change is to the economy. Since Lisbon I, we Irish are quite clear
on which side our bread is buttered. The difference between Ireland and Iceland
is not one letter, but four: E-U-R-O. The European Central Bank is paying the
bills and recapitalising our insolvent banks - we know who our friends are. No
one cares about the democratic deficit any more. Government from Brussels? Well,
they could hardly do a worse job than the crowd in Dublin.

Sarah Carey writes for the Irish Times

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday

EU staff demand 'green' travel perk

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Dublin

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 476  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats have been accused of demanding taxpayer subsidies for
travelling on public transport.

EU officials have asked national governments to hand over an extra  pounds 4.1
million a year in sweeteners to tempt civil servants on to buses, trams, trains
and the metro.

The new perk, expected to be introduced next year, will benefit 31,380 EU civil
servants, many of whom already gain from low tax rates, high salaries, pensions
and a job for life. An internal European Commission document outlining the plans
says: "The main initial action will be the partial - up to 50 per cent -
reimbursement of public transport season tickets to staff in order to further
reduce CO2 emissions and contribute to the reduction of traffic congestion in
Brussels.''

It said the reimbursement was a "small but crucial tool to confirm the EU
institutions' commitment in reducing their own CO2 emissions, in line with
agreed climate change objectives''.

The demand for a green travel subsidy has been signed by the commission, Council
of the EU, European Parliament, Committee of the Regions and the little-known
Economic and Social Committee.

The commission has defended the new staff benefit, even against the background
of economic crisis for private sector workers and employees in national public
sector jobs.

"Even in times of crisis, the fight against climate change is a priority of this
commission,'' a spokesman said. "We cannot be at the forefront in fighting
climate change while at the same time neglecting to take small steps that have
been shown to make a real difference.

"Why should the commission neglect any additional tool to promote sustainable
means of transport while reducing its overall impact on the environment?''

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said: "This is a cynical ploy to green the
gravy train. EU officials are in jobs for life, pay the lowest tax rates in
Europe, and now they want the taxpayer to pay their bills so that they can claim
the moral high ground over us. If you want to go green, great, but use your own
money.''

The new perk for EU officials has angered "No'' campaigners as Ireland's second
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty looms on Friday.

Declan Ganley, the leader of Libertas, said: "The willingness of these people to
shrug off a recession and to stick their hands ever deeper into our pockets
simply beggars belief.''

Many commission civil servants oppose the subsidy. Peter Whitten, a research
official, wrote on the letters page of the commission's newsletter: "Every day
throughout the EU there are thousands of people losing their jobs. We only think
of ourselves!

"I'd have great difficulty explaining to them why I need this indirect pay
increase. I am all for encouraging people to take public transport but I really
don't think that we need to be reimbursed for doing so, especially in these
economic times.''

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 29, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EUROPE SPIES ON YOUR PAY AND SAVINGS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 740  words


EU SNOOPERS are pressing for sinister new powers to spy on every taxpayer in
Britain, the Daily Express can reveal today.

Brussels wants European Union countries to allow its bureaucrats the right to
delve into millions of people's personal financial details.

The wide-ranging powers would allow faceless officials across all 27 EU member
states to access highly sensitive information right down to bank account
transactions.

It means offi ials from the likes of Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia and Slovakia
would be able to view the salary details, spending habits and savings of
50million British taxpayers without their knowledge.

Politicians and pressure groups reacted with outrage yesterday at the latest
move towards an EU-wide surveillance state, describing the proposal as "a
powergrab" by Brussels. They fear the move would create an all-powerful and
unaccountable bureaucracy, adding to the threat of personal and fi nancial
information falling into criminal hands.

Bill Cash MP, chairman of the European Foundation think-tank, said: "This new
shift in EU legislation is a real threat to every UK taxpayer.

"It is a true mark of how British citizens have come to live under Britain's
undemocratic surveillance state where their personal data is shared across
Europe, without their consent or knowledge." The scheme is the brainchild of the
EU taxation commissioner Laszlo Kovacs, who tabled the proposal in August
calling on member states to agree to give each other access to tax data to
counter VAT fraud.

The Hungarian socialist wants to set up a new body of snoopers called Eurofi sc
to collect financial details across the EU to tackle fraudsters.

But Mr Cash said: "The personal data will enable the immediate European-wide
access to taxpayers' identities, activity and turnover data.

That is completely unacceptable.

"This makes a mockery of Labour's data protection legislation which does not
protect people and it demonstrates the futility of so-called human rights
legislative protection."

Campaign group the TaxPayers' Alliance warned the move would increase the risk
of people's personal data being misused.

Mark Wallace, campaign director, said: "The EU is always trying to gather yet
more excessive powers to itself, and giving them copies of all taxpayers'
personal records would be a disaster.

"If Revenue and Customs can't keep this information secure it will be infi
nitely more exposed once it is shared with incompetent Eurocrats."

A report by EU reform campaigners the European Foundation urged Britons to "take
action to demand that their data is not shared across Europe under this Brussels
power-grab".

And the prospect of Eurocrats being granted the power to probe UK businesses
could even hinder Britain's economic growth, according to the Federation of
Small Businesses.

Spokesman Stephen Alambritis said: "We're very concerned that once it gets out
that Brussels will be snooping on businesses, it will further encourage people
to stay out of the VAT system.

"The knock-on effect is that businesses will stay small and growth will be
restricted. We urge the British authorities to demand a re-think."

Kay Swinburne, a Tory member of the European Parliament and spokesman for the
European Conservatives and Reformists Group, said: "Of course cross-border fraud
needs to be dealt with by European cooperation but the EU is once again turning
the principle of data-sharing on its head.

"We already grant other EU governments access to our fi ngerprint and DNA
database and extending access to commercial information like this will only
increase our vulnerability."

Godfrey Bloom, an MEP for the UK Independence Party, said: "The ide a that the
Government is prepared to hand over personal data to Brussels is chilling. Time
and time again the state seems to think the answer to every problem is a new
database. Then they lose or give away our data."

A spokesman for Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs said: "Tacklin g VAT fraud is
in the interests of all honest business and taxpayers.

"The proposal - if adopted - would improve the speed at which data necessary to
the fight against fraud becomes available.

"The data referred to is already exchanged between authorised officials and the
proposed change would simply accelerate the process, making fraud harder."

The Kovacs proposal is set to be debated in European Council workin g groups but
a unanimous vote will be needed among the 27 member states for the agreement to
be enacted.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 29, 2009 Tuesday

We need a better choice than AV

BYLINE: Lewis Bastonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1063 words

ABSTRACT

Lewis Baston: Conference season 09: Gordon Brown's manifesto commitment to a
referendum on the Alternative Vote is too little, too late for electoral
reformers

FULL TEXT

Labour retains some shreds of its constitutional reform programme that was part
of its appeal in 1997, and  featured . We have the most detail on the
longstanding policy of ending the absurdity of hereditary peers and introducing
an elected second chamber. Another, the ability of electors to "recall" erring
MPs by forcing an election, has also been trailed but is a minor and possibly
dangerous concession to populism.

The other announcement is a genuine surprise. The 2010 Labour manifesto will
contain a promise to have a referendum early in the next parliament on one form
of electoral reform, the Alternative Vote (AV). This is welcome, but can only be
greeted by constitutional reformers with the very thinnest of smiles. AV is a
weak reform, and the promise at this stage of something in the Labour manifesto
reminds one of  of a candidate making promises "like a farmer with terminal
cancer bargaining for a loan on next year's crop". Even if Labour's malaise
enters spontaneous remission and Brown is still Prime Minister a year from now,
this is pretty mild fare.

The Alternative Vote (AV), which Gordon Brown has come to support, is a simple
reform. The current system asks voters to mark an X by a single candidate
(implicitly saying that the voter opposes the other candidates in equal
measure). Under AV, voters choose their favourite candidate with a 1, next
favourite with 2 and so on. If no candidate gets a majority of 1 votes, the 2
votes for the lowest-placed candidate are taken into account, and so on until
someone gets to 50%. Nothing else changes - constituencies will be exactly the
same.

AV is simply an accommodation of the present system to circumstances where two
thirds of MPs are there despite a majority of their local voters having voted
against them. The electorate clearly no longer believes that a choice of two
parties is adequate. AV broadens political choice a bit, makes tactical voting
much less significant, and encourages a more honest and pluralistic relationship
between large and small parties. To win marginal seats under AV, a party will
need to build bridges with supporters of local minority parties and not pretend
to have all the answers.

Additionally, AV is probably the most extremist-proof electoral system ever
devised, as - other than people who support the party - most voters will make
sure the BNP is ranked last on their ballot.

AV is not perfect by any means. By the same token, it is still poor at including
minority points of view (Australia has AV and a very rigid two-party system) and
means almost as many safe seats as first past the post (FPTP). But overall, ,
the Alternative Vote is better than FPTP, and introducing it would be a big step
forward.

A promise to legislate for AV would have been solid progress. A referendum on AV
is a different, and much worse, proposition.

In principle, a referendum should offer a choice between two fundamentally
different options. AV is another, rather better, species of majoritarian system
that preserves safe seats and the monopoly on local representation enjoyed by
each MP. It is only worth going to the people with a real choice - between a
majoritarian system and one based on the idea of proportional representation and
extending electoral choice.

This is, after all, what Labour offered in 1997 and what the Jenkins Commission
came up with in 1998. In itself, the change from voting with an X to voting by
ranking candidates 1, 2, 3 is a very small shift; and voters could be forgiven
for asking why it's necessary bother with a referendum.

Perhaps worse, the practical difficulties of winning an AV referendum look
prohibitive. It is an arithmetical fact that to win a referendum needs 50% plus
one vote. Under our current ridiculous system, a party only needs around 35% of
the vote to form a majority government. Even in 1997, Labour did not have
anything approaching 50%.

The party, in good pluralist fashion, realised that compromise was necessary to
build referendum-winning alliances for devolution in Scotland and Wales. Where
might the Labour party - or that part of it which likes the policy - find allies
to win a referendum for AV in the face of predictable vitriol from the
Conservatives and most of the media?

The Liberal Democrats will probably end up recommending a "Yes" vote, but will
tick the "no publicity" box and avoid appearing on platforms with Labour
ministers; the Greens and electoral reform campaigners will be dismissive, and
civil society groups will not help. It could be made to seem like a Labour fix
without actually helping the party much - a perverse outcome if ever there was
one.

UKIP might be on-side, but they may be the only allies out there. "Vote yes,
because Gordon Brown and Nigel Farage want you to" is not a compelling slogan.
The risk is that, even if Labour scrape back in again, an AV referendum will
fail, and take down with it any alternative to Tory hegemony that might be based
on the support of only one potential elector in five.

There is still an opportunity to get something better. A referendum bill will
need to go through parliament. The Liberal Democrats, if there were to be a hung
parliament, would be in a position to press for a better outcome than AV -
either adopting a proportional system, or handing the job of design of the
system to a democratic Citizens' Assembly rather than keeping it in Whitehall.

By calling for an AV referendum, Brown has at last gestured in the direction of
a new politics and that is welcome, both for Labour and for reformers. It is
more than the Conservatives will ever do and does establish a clear difference
between the two big parties on democratising Westminster. But Brown would have
better to offer a radical reform straight away and gain the credit for bold
leadership and pluralism, rather than a messy compromise or a half-measure. The
more radical option is also more likely to mobilise broad support and win the
referendum. An AV referendum may smell like a win for constitutional reformers,
but victory itself is still a long way further on from here.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 29, 2009 Tuesday 5:49 PM GMT

Nominate your 2009 parliamentarian of the year

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 324 words


The Spectator is seeking nominations for its annualParliamentarian of the Year
Award. Now I'm biased - the chap's my co-author,my friend and godfather to my
daughter - but surely it's a no-brainer. The most telling blow struck on behalf
of Parliament in 2009 was the ousting of Michael Martin as Speaker. And the man
who struck that blow was Douglas Carswell, a parliamentarian to his fingertips.

When Douglas first criticised Speaker Martin, his was a lonely voice. Other MPs
privately shared his concerns, but were reluctant to say so and risk never again
being called to speak. Still, Douglas stuck at it - and Martin, to be fair, was
meticulously fair about recognising him - until two years later, when a majority
ofthe Househad come round to his point of view.

Douglas didn't simply bring down an incompetent, partisan and obstructionist
Speaker. That battle was part of a much wider campaign that he is waging to
restore honour and dignity to the House of Commons, and to make ministers
answerable once again to the legislature. In three weeks' time, for example,
Douglas will move a Bill to facilitate open primaries - the single most
important way to break the power of the Whips and make MPs independent. In
voting for Douglas, you would be voting for a sovereign Parliament.

On which subject, let me put in a plug for Lord Pearson of Rannoch in the peers
category. Pearson, who left my party for UK Independence Party a couple of years
ago, is now standing for the UKIPleadership. People going for such jobs often
feign reluctance, but rarely feel it. Malcolm Pearson, though,is genuinely
actuated by patriotism: there are plenty of other things he'd rather be
doing.Although in his late 60s, Malcolm goes about everything with the energy
and enthusiasm of a twenty-something first time candidate, and I defy anyone to
spend ten minutes in his company without liking him.

Go ahead: you can nominate your candidate here.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 29, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Revolt waiting in the wings as the Gordon Brown show looks set for brutal
finale;

BYLINE: MARTIN BARROW

SECTION: BRITAIN;FEATURES; Pg. 1,2,3,4

LENGTH: 4037 words


THE TEMPTATION TO WALK AWAY FROM IT ALL MUST BE GREAT, BUT SOMEHOW YOU KNOW THAT
GORDON bROWN WILL REMAIN AS PRIME mINISTER UNTIL THE BITTER END. tHERE HE IS,
HOPELESSLY BEHIND IN THE POLLS, THE LEADER OF A PARTY THAT IS IN OPEN REVOLT,
PRESIDING OVER AN ECONOMY MIRED IN RECESSION, THE CHIEF STRATEGIST IN A WAR IN
WHICH bRITAIN HAS SUFFERED APPALLING CASUALTIES. tHIS WEEK HE STANDS BEFORE THE
lABOUR PARTY PROMISING DEEP CUTS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICES THAT HE HOLDS SO DEAR.

The temptation to walk away from it all must be great, but somehow you know that
Gordon Brown will remain as Prime Minister until the bitter end. There he is,
hopelessly behind in the polls, the leader of a party that is in open revolt,
presiding over an economy mired in recession, the chief strategist in a war in
which Britain has suffered appalling casualties. This week he stands before the
Labour Party promising deep cuts in the public services that he holds so dear.

Can it possibly get any worse? Well, yes, it can. The parliamentary session that
begins this month, the last before the next election, promises to be brutal for
the Prime Minister as many Labour MPs face up to the fact that they only have a
few months left in the job. Clamour for change will grow louder if opinion polls
continue to show such a decisive lead for David Cameron's Conservatives.

Mr Brown will struggle to maintain party unity as he seeks support for cuts in
spending that will inevitably lead to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in
the public sector, angering Labour's paymasters in the unions. In November the
Pre-Budget Report will set out for the first time where the government axe will
fall. Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, must hope that he will be able, at the
very least, to suggest that the worst of the recession is over to soften what
will otherwise be a most sombre report.

Then there is the small matter of expenses. The row over MPs' claims, which
caused mayhem in Westminster before the summer recess, is set to reignite when
Sir Christopher Kelly puts forward a new system of expenses that is certain to
leave politicians worse off. This is to be followed by the outcome of an
investigation led by Sir Thomas Legg into claims made by MPs over the past four
years. Many will have to repay large sums of money. For some, possibly dozens of
MPs, and particularly for Labour stalwarts now contemplating life on the
opposition benches, it will be the last straw as they call it a day on their
Westminster careers. And so the future of the Government remains precariously
balanced, and exposed to unexpected developments, such as a highprofile
resignation from the Cabinet, or further setbacks in Afghanistan.

At some point over the next two months Mr Brown must decide whether to send more
troops, possibly between 500 and 1,000, to back up the 9,000 already serving in
Helmand province, hoping to bolster the British position in a deeply unpopular
war. Even an uptick in the economy may not be enough to alter the balance of
public opinion.

Amid this parliamentary turmoil, a major constitutional reform brings further
change to Westminster. The new Supreme Court opens in October, bringing to an
end the role of the judicial arm of the House of Lords as the highest court in
the land. The inauguration separates the judiciary from the legislature. Instead
of law lords there will be 12 Supreme Court justices who will sit in a newly
refurbished court in Parliament Square. It is a far-reaching change and has
given rise to concerns that judges will seek to assert their new-found
authority, challenging the Government on legislation that they believe poses a
risk to civil liberties.

Will swine flu prove to be the calamitous pandemic that many feared it would
become after the first outbreak? The number of cases is rising again as people
return from the summer holidays and the weather turns cooler and damp. The peak
in cases is expected around mid-October, by which time a vaccine should be
licensed and offered to more than 13 million people considered to be at risk and
to health workers. The Government's "worst-case scenario" planning assumptions
suggest that up to 30 per cent of the population may fall ill with the virus. By
the time that Andy Burnham, the Health Secretary, addresses the annual
conference of the NHS Alliance in Manchester on October 19, the scale of the
impact of the pandemic in the UK should be clear.

In the build-up to the December climate change summit in Copenhagen there will
be frenzied activity by politicians and business seeking to influence the
outcome of a final agreement. The Independent Committee on Climate Change
publishes its first annual report on the UK's progress in meeting the
Government's own target to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 per cent by 2050.
Ed Miliband, the Energy Secretary, will host an international meeting on carbon
capture.

The final day of Antony Gormley's exhibition on the Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar
Square. is on October 14. By the time it finishes more than 34,000 people will
have taken part in the live artwork, one person every hour, 24 hours for 100
days. Some did it for a laugh, others to promote a serious cause. A few wanted
simply to ask for a job. So far there were no MPs among them. But the curtain
has yet to come down on this particular show.

October

1 Parliament

In October or early November Sir Christopher Kelly, chairman of the Committee on
Standards in Public Life, will publish his proposals for reforming MPs'
expenses.

Politics

The Labour Party conference, this year in Brighton, ends. Harriet Harman will
give the closing address.

Courts

The Supreme Court opens, ending the role of the House of Lords as the highest
court in the land and separating the judiciary at its apex from the legislature.
The first case will be heard on October 5.

Health

The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act comes into force. It regulates the
fertility industry and medical research involving embryos and other tissue.

Politics

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, is due to make a guest appearance on the BBC
soap opera, EastEnders.

4

Politics

Members of the Conservative Party gather in Manchester for their last conference
The event starts officially on October 5. To October 8

Education

The Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference holds its annual conference in
Liverpool. To October 7

Literature

The publication of Return to the Hundred Acre Wood, the first new
Winnie-the-Pooh book for 80 years.

Security

The official history of MI5, by Professor Christopher Andrew, is published.

Entertainment

40th anniversary of the first broadcast of Monty Python's Flying Circus on BBC
One. The comedy show, starring John Cleese, ran for 45 episodes over four
seasons.

6

Prisons

Prison Governors' Association conference in Buxton, Derbys. Jack Straw, Justice
Secretary, will speak. Governors are concerned that cuts will lead to less work
to help prisoners to gain skills and tackle issues behind their offending.

Courts

Trial starts at Birmingham Crown Court of four men accused of murdering the
sub-postmaster's son Craig Hodson-Walker at the family-run post office in the
Worcestershire village of Fairfield in January.

7

Courts

Sharon Shoesmith, the social work chief involved in the Baby P case, goes to the
High Court to seek a judicial review of her sacking by Ed Balls, Education
Secretary.

Military

General Sir Richard Dannatt, the outgoing head of the British Army, is
officially installed as Constable of Her Majesty's Palace and Fortress, the
Tower of London.

8

Postal service

The result is expected from the national ballot of postal 8 workers on strike
action over cuts in jobs and services .

Policing

A performance assessment of the 43 police forces in England and Wales is
published. Inspectors have been posing as ordinary citizens to gauge how police
treat the public.

9

Military

Members of the Royal Family attend a thanksgiving service 9 at St Pauls
Cathedral for all those who have served in Iraq.

Courts

Commander Ali Dizaei, of the Metropolitan Police, appears at Southwark Crown
Court on charges of misconduct in public office and perverting the course of
justice.

12

Parliament

Parliament returns to work after the summer recess.

Terrorism

25th anniversary of the IRA bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton, during the
Tory party conference. A memorial ceremony is planned.

Environment

The Independent Committee on Climate Change publishes its report on progress
towards the Government's ambition of cutting CO2 emissions by 80 per cent by
2050.

Social affairs

Vetting and barring scheme begins. All 11.3 million adults who work with
children will need to be registered and have a criminal record check by the end
of the five-year roll-out.

14

Money

40th anniversary of the introduction of the seven-sided 50p piece to replace the
old ten shilling note.

Public arts The final day of Antony Gormley's exhibition on the Fourth Plinth,
in Trafalgar Square. By the time it is finished, more than 34,000 people will
have participated.

15

Defence

Defence policy debate in the House of Commons. Topics 15 include Afghanistan and
the replacement of Trident.

Health

The Care Quality Commission, the new health and social care regulator, publishes
its annual review of the perfomance of health trusts. It replaces the Healthcare
Commission's Annual Health Check of previous years.

Politics

The Scottish National Party holds its annual conference at the Eden Court
Theatre, Inverness. To October 18

19

Courts

The former Official Harpist to the Prince of Wales, Jemima Phillips, who played
at the wedding reception of Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall, stands trial at
Gloucester Crown Court accused of three charges of burglary.

20

Terrorism

Jack Straw, Justice Secretary, is questioned by MPs on the Justice Committee
about the return of Abdul Baset Ali al-Megrahi, the Lockerbie bomber, to Libya.

Military

Publication of Commons Public Accounts Committee report on Service families'
accommodation.

22

Crime

Crime statistics for England and Wales April-June 2009 published. The figures
will indicate whether the recession has led to an increase in burglary, theft
and fraud.

24

Politics

Ulster Unionist Party conference held in Belfast as the party begins the process
of choosing joint candidates with the Conservative Party for the general
election.

25

Time

British Summer Time ends. Moving the clocks back one hour will bring protests
over after-school safety.

28

Arts

100th anniversary of the birth of Irish-born painter Francis Bacon who died in
April 1992. In May last year his piece Triptych, 1976, became the most expensive
contemporary artwork sold at auction when it went to an anonymous bidder for £44
million .

30

Health

The Fertility Show opens in London. The event, which is supported by the charity
Infertility Network UK, will feature specialist fertility doctors discussing
contemporary issues in IVF. To October 31

November

1

Politics

In November, the Chancellor Alistair Darling will publish his Pre-Budget Report,
which will be dominated by the need for big cuts in public spending .

Parliament

Sir Thomas Legg's report on the individual expenses claims of MPs over the past
four years is likely to be published this month. Some MPs will have to pay back
large sums .

Security

Sir John Sawers takes over as head of the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, from
Sir John Scarlett. Sir John's previous job was as UK Ambassador to the United
Nations.

2

Courts

Tom Wise, a former UKIP Member of the European Parliament, and his researcher
Lindsay Jenkins appear at Southwark Crown Court accused of false accounting.

3

Retail

Christmas lights in Oxford Street, Regent Street and Bond Street will be
simultaneously turned on for the first time .

Jails

The Commons Public Accounts Committee publishes a report into a new IT system
for the Prison and Probation Service, which is three years late, twice over
budget and dubbed as a "spectacular failure".

5

Education

The Admissions to Higher Education Conference starts in London. Delegates will
look at how widening access to university has affected the sector.

7

Law

The Bar Conference is held in London. The annual meeting barristers will be
dominated by the Government's proposed reforms to the legal aid system.

Education

The National Governors Association annual general meeting in Birmingham.
Christine Gilbert, Chief Inspector of Schools, will give the keynote speech.

Local councils

Councillors and chief executives from London's 32 boroughs and the City of
London gather for the London Councils Summit at the QE2 Conference Centre.

8

Military

The Queen attends the National Remembrance Day service at the Cenotaph.

11

Military

Commemorative service at Westminster Abbey to mark the end of the First World
War.

12

Politics

The expected date of the Glasgow North East by-election, which was caused by
Speaker Michael Martin standing down during the MPs' expenses controversy.

16

Education

The Girls Schools Association holds its annual conference in Harrogate.
Discussions will centre on the dominance of single-sex schools in the league
tables. The pressures of the recession will also feature. To October 18

17

Education

The Higher Education Funding Council holds its annual meeting in London. It will
discuss the challenges facing higher education, including the debates over
raising tuition fees and cuts to funding.

Education

Lord Mandelson, Ed Balls, Nick Clegg and David Willetts speak at the Association
of Colleges conference in Birmingham.

Courts

Three men are due to appear at Manchester Crown Court over an alleged
assassination plot against Gordon Brown .

18

Parliament

The Queen opens a new session of Parliament, which will include a financial
stability Bill.

21

Politics

The annual conference of the Democratic Unionist Party starts amid growing
strains in the power-sharing agreement with Sinn Féin.

24

Education

Ofsted, the school inpectorate, publishes its annual report after the new
inspection framework was put into action this term giving parents greater powers
to instigate inspections and to influence their outcomes.

25

Olympics

International Olympic Committee inspectors are due to visit London to get a
six-monthly update on the progress of the 2012 Games preparation s.

26

Health

The Royal College of Midwives annual conference starts in Manchester. Andy
Burnham, the Health Secretary, is due to speak. To November 27

30

Science

The Royal Society details celebrations for the 350th anniversary of its founding
in 1660 at Gresham College by 12 "natural philosophers" after a lecture by
Christopher Wren

December

1

Education

In mid-December the University of Oxford publishes its annual admission figures
with a breakdown of applicants from public and state schools.

2

Health

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence holds its annual
conference in Manchester .

3

Policing

The Metropolitan Police hosts a conference on public order policing in the wake
of the controversy over the handling of the G20 protests.

4

Education

Universities UK, the body representing vice-chancellors, publishes its annual
report .

7

Courts

Helen Lawson, a 61-year-old clay pigeon shooter, appears at Winchester Crown
Court accused of murdering her husband, Geoffrey, at their home on the Isle of
Wight.

Courts

Two brothers, aged 10 and 12, are sentenced at Sheffield Crown Court after
admitting grievous bodily harm with intent over an attack on two young boys at
Edlington.

8

Environment

The Committee on Climate Change reports on the future of UK aviation and whether
more flights are possible in view of new CO2 targets.

Courts

Ben Vogelenzang, a Christian hotelier, and his wife, Sharon, face magistrates in
Liverpool accused of using threatening, abusive or insulting words towards a
Muslim guest.

14

Courts

Peter Tobin faces trial at Chelmsford Crown Court. He is accused of murdering
Dinah

McNicol, 18, whose body was found in the garden of a house in Margate.

18

Media 18 Terry Wogan hosts the last edition of his Radio 2 show Wake Up to Wogan
before handing over to Chris Evans.

20

Entertainment

The Official Charts Company reveals the Christmas No 1 record.

Window on Britain

1696

The year the Quorn Hunt was founded. They, like the other 317 hound packs in
England and Wales, will be out over the weekend of October 31, the official
opening of the hunting season

Santon Bridge

Hosts the World's Biggest Liar Competition on November 19. The tradition goes
back to a Cumbrian publican in the 19th century renowned for his fibbing.
Entrants (politicians and lawyers excluded) must talk plausibly for two to five
minutes. Past winners include the actor James Mason... but that of course might
be a lie

12,000

People worked at the Bletchley Park code-breaking centre at Milton Keynes during
the Second World War. The Churchill Weekend Festival is held there on October
3-4

£61million

Cost of refurbishing the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, which is the oldest in
Britain. It reopens on November 7 with twice the gallery space

1767

Year when 11-year-old Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart produced his first opera, La Finta
Semplice, in Vienna. Mozart buffs gather on November 13 for the Bath Mozartfest
at various venues around the town

St Ives

UK debut of the artist Damien Hirst's unicorn in formaldehyde in his work The
Child's Dream 2008. October 10

193.6miles

Length of the M1. The first stretch was opened by theTransport Minister Ernest
Marples on November 2, 50 years ago

12 inches

Length of string contestants are allowed to use in the World Conker
Championships held in Oundle, Northamptonshire, on October 11. There are an
estimated 470,000 horse chestnut trees in Britain

Soham

Venue on October 10 for the British National Ploughing Championships; 150,000
visitors will watch 250 ploughmen battle it out in Cambridgeshire with tractors
and horsedrawn ploughs

£350.21

Average monthly council house rent in London. All 32 of London's councils and
the City of London will gather at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre on November 7
for a summit conference

2,000

Digits in a number that contestants in the World Memory Championships in London
on November 12 have to remember to stand any chance of winning. They will also
have to memorise a list of 500 words and the order of 12 packs of cards

In-tray

Transport

Plans for Britain's first 200mph rail line - from London to the West Midlands -
will be submitted to ministers on December 31 by High Speed Two, the company
created by the Government to investigate the feasibility of the project. The
report, which will be confidential to avoid blighting thousands of homes, will
recommend locations for stations and the preferred route. The initial line is
likely to cost at least £10 billion, with an additional £10 billion if it is
extended later to Manchester. Funding is likely to be a major stumbling block,
but the Conservatives were the first party to publish firm proposals for
building the line and have promised to make it their flagship transport project.

Health

Swine flu is not predicted to peak until mid-October, by which time a vaccine
should be on offer to more than 13 million people in at-risk groups and health
workers. Though most people who get the illness may be expected to recover
quickly, the Government's "worst-case scenario" suggests that up to 19,000
Britons could die before the end of the pandemic. The message that "coughs and
sneezes spread diseases" has never been so pertinent.

Home affairs

Tackling antisocial behaviour will dominate the Home Office's autumn offensive
as Alan Johnson seeks to revive a Blairite policy that fell into disfavour after
Gordon Brown became Prime Minister .

Johnson believes that too many families on estates still suffer from yobbish
behaviour that diminishes their quality of life and that many feel ignored by
the authorities who do not take their concerns seriously.

Education

The long-awaited higher education tuition fee review begins this month. A panel
of experts, soon to be named by the Government, will spend at least eight months
deciding whether the fee cap should rise from its current rate of £3,140 a year.

Universities pushing for this to happen are expected to begin lobbying
vociferously once the review is underway.

At the other end of the age spectrum, the national results of primary school Key
Stage 2 tests (formerly known as SATS) are expected in December. The tests,
taken by 11-year-olds, will be the subject of intense scrutiny and controversy;
many teachers want them abolished and intend to boycott them next May, meaning
this year's results could be the last.

Social services

The Social Work Taskforce, led by Moira Gibb, chief executive of Camden Council,
will report in November on how the recruitment crisis can be addressed and
morale of the profession raised in the light of the public outcry after Baby P's
death. Earlier, the controversial vetting and barring scheme, a key
recommendation after the Soham murders, will begin amid public alarm that it is
a step too far.

Five to watch

Ben Jupp

The Director of Public Services Strategy and Innnovation in the Cabinet Office
is tipped in Whitehall as one to watch over the coming months as departments are
forced to cut spending and make billions of pounds of efficiency savings. Mr
Jupp, 38, is responsible for drawing up proposals to deliver public services
such as health, education, and police services more effectively and at less
cost. Working closely with the Treasury the former researcher for Demos, the
left-of-centre think-tank, will have the tricky task of trying to persuade
ministers to save money by sharing new ideas and resources across services and
devolving power to teachers, doctors and police chiefs who deliver services.
Cabinet ministers are notorious for refusing to co-operate with each other and
grabbing every penny for themselves, so he will have an uphill task. The role of
liaising with trade unions over job cuts and pay restraint will be another
challenge.

Christopher Graham

The former BBC journalist has a hard act to follow after taking over from
Richard Thomas as Information Commissioner. Mr Thomas , who retired in June,
caught the public mood with his warning that Britain was in danger of
"sleepwalking into a surveillance society". Mr Graham, 59, a previous
director-general of the Advertising Standards Authority, will be at the
forefront of debates on the security of personal information and the growing
extent of surveillance in the run-up to the general election.

Priti Patel

The Tory candidate for the new seat of Witham in Essex is tipped to become the
party's first female Asian MP and is central to the party's attempt to present a
diverse image. The London-born mother of one is a straight-talker, an outspoken
supporter of the death penalty and staunchly anti-euro. She has spent most of
her working career in politics and communications, including a stint as William
Hague's deputy press secretary. Expect a high-profile appearance during the
party conference in Manchester .

Lord Neuberger

At 61, the new Master of the Rolls and head of the civil justice system is one
of Britain's youngest senior judges. He decided to take the job, where he is top
dog, rather than go with the other law lords to the new Supreme Court. It is a
critical time: Lord Justice Jackson, a Court of Appeal judge, will report soon
on how to cut the costs and delays of the civil justice system. Lord Neuberger
chaired a report for the Bar on access to the profession and wants to ensure
that it does not become a bastion for the privileged.

Andrew Hamilton

Professor Hamilton takes the helm at the University of Oxford at the start of
this month. The new Vice-Chancellor has experience of leadership at a top
university - he comes straight from Yale, where he was provost since 2004. The
55-year-old, the first Vice-Chancellor of Oxford never to have been either a
student or an academic at the university, replaces Dr John Hood, who held the
post at Oxford for five years. Professor Hamilton was born in Guildford, Surrey,
and read chemistry at the University of Exeter. He studied for a masters degree
at the University of British Columbia, received a PhD from the University of
Cambridge in 1980, and has held posts at Princeton and Pittsburgh universities.
At Yale, he oversaw the acquisition of a new research campus, re-established the
School of Engineering and Applied Science, and developed an interdisciplinary
teaching and research programme in the humanities.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 28, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Riddle of the ubiquitous brand that disappears

BYLINE: Sathnam Sanghera

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1013 words


Vittorio Colao, Vodafone's chief executive, last week announced plans to
overhaul the telecoms company's £600 million-a-year marketing programme for the
first time in four years, a development to which there is only one possible
response: about time. For too long, the mobile phone company has been to global
advertising what Nick Clegg is to global democracy. But before we get on to why,
a caveat: corporate image-making ain't easy.

There's a common view that working in advertising requires little more than
having nice hair, being able to carry off wearing a T-shirt with a blazer,
driving an Audi and coming up with an idea every three or four years. But a
brief glance at marketing literature reveals that it is actually highly complex:
great advertising campaigns do not necessarily result in increased sales (I was
surprised to read in a trade magazine, for example, that Dove's acclaimed
"Campaign for Real Beauty" was considered a disappointment by Unilever because
it didn't shift enough soap bars); terrible campaigns sometimes result in
booming sales (the only possible explanation for the longevity of those grating
"Chicken Tonight" adverts); companies do not advertise for ages but then
suddenly find they can't survive without it (M&S); companies don't advertise for
ages, try it and find it makes no real difference (PizzaExpress); and other
companies manage to thrive with very little advertising (Lush, Pret a Manger).

In short, the relationship between advertising and sales is impenetrable and,
given the amount of money involved, working in marketing is more stressful than
a stroll through Afghanistan's Uruzgan province. Frankly, no number of Gucci
suits could persuade me to give it a twirl, but, having said that, it seems
obvious even to me that Vodafone keeps on making the same basic mistakes, the
first of which is spending too much on advertising.

Which may sound counterintuitive. Surely, more posters and logos means more
sales. But, as Matthew Gwyther put it on a Management Today blog last week, "the
problem with Vodafone marketing is that it's utterly ubiquitous. And, like the
air that you breathe, you just stop noticing it after a while."

There are, of course, worse examples than Vodafone. ING and Allianz plaster
their logo everywhere, without actually explaining what they do. I couldn't
describe a single Microsoft advert and yet one probably flashes past my eyes
every five minutes. Lord knows why Visa even bothers advertising, given most
people choose credit cards according to bank brands, not whether they are
endorsed by "Mastercard" or "Visa". But less would certainly be more in
Vodafone's case.

The other mistake that the mobile phone company keeps repeating is also a
consequence of having too much money to spend: its use of celebrity endorsement.
It is inevitable that, when a large corporation picks a famous face to represent
its brand, it picks a big name, because it can afford to do so. But the problem
with very famous faces is that their fame outstrips any positive association the
company may be able to establish with the brand. Think of Beckham, a former
Vodafone ambassador, and you think of a million things - tattoos, silly hair,
Rebecca Loos - before you think "Vodafone". The other problem with very famous
faces, especially international sportsmen like Michael Schumacher and Lewis
Hamilton, both one-time Vodafone endorsers, is that they attract more
sponsorship than the Olympics, and pouring money into them is about as
productive as voting for UKIP.

Although, once again, there are companies that make even more of a hash of it
than Vodafone. A couple of years ago, Garnier tried to break free from uniform
international advertising campaigns dubbed into different languages, and,
looking for a "local" celebrity to front the UK effort for Garnier Nutrisse hair
colouring, it chose Davina McCall, the presenter of the reality television
series Big Brother. All very well, except a few years earlier McCall had fronted
a campaign for another hair colour product: Wella Viva Long Lasting. Durr.

It seems that even when corporations realise they are unimaginative and try to
do something to rectify it, they are pathologically incapable of doing so. Which
leads us to the biggest problem with all global advertising: blandness. Faced
with the challenge of making advertising travel across borders, too often
international companies go for the lowest common denominator, to such a degree
that you could probably switch the photography, slogans and film footage used by
international brands such as Evian and Visa and Coke without anyone noticing.

For the majority of such companies, advertising essentially involves
broadcasting pictures of attractive people smiling, laughing, tossing their
glossy hair around next to a life-affirming slogans like: "Live it" or "See what
you can do" or "Just do it" or Vodafone's last slogan "Make the most of now".

Although this mindless positivity has been replaced by a new form of blandness:
the blandness of interactivity. A staggering number of corporations seem to have
simultaneously decided that it is not up to them to decide what their brand
offers consumers, but it is up to consumers to decide what they want the brand
to be. So, after "Your M&S", we have Vodafone's new slogan "Power to you" and I
couldn't help noticing that just a matter of days after Vittorio Colao explained
this to The Sunday Times, - "it is not the brand talking any more and telling
the customer what to do, it is the customer who will decide" - we heard that
Yahoo! was seeking to relaunch itself with a $100 million international
marketing campaign "designed to place the company at the centre of consumers'
online lives".

Apparently, Yahoo! will launch a global brand campaign over the next 15 months
under the slogan "It's Y!ou", featuring the familiar Yahoo! exclamation mark.
Other slogans in the new campaign will include "The internet is under new
management: Yours" and "The internet has a new personality: Yours". Not that you
will remember a single one of them.

sathnam@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Beckham and Vodafone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               September 27, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

It's murder on the dancefloor;
BUSHELL ON THE BOX

BYLINE: GARRY BUSHELL

SECTION: COLUMNS; 26

LENGTH: 369 words


BBC1 dragged out Strictly for 135 minutes last night.

Even Colonel Gaddafi said it went on a bit.

But siren voices are already asking why stop there? Why not expand the Saturday
edition to three hours or four?

Obviously the longer it's on air, the more we'd see the cracks (easy, Ola).

Even Bruce's supply of corn, acquired over three long centuries in the game,
might dry up in a 240-minute show.

And it'd leave Alesha Dixon woefully exposed.

Poor Alesha. She's a woman of exquisite beauty but she knows less about dancing
than Stephen Hawking. If she went to the ballet, she'd probably bet on the swan
to live.

But what if the BBC employed an expert to tell her what to say over an earpiece?
Think about it: Lionel Blair, hasn't got much on these days. They could bung him
a few bob to sit off-camera and reel off technical phrases over the mic.

If it was good enough for George Bush it's good enough for Alesha.

And Rory Bremner, suitably disguised with a prosthetic chin, could sub for
Brucie while the great man curled up for a mid-show nap.

Some experts fear that even Craig Revel Horrid couldn't stay unaccountably
pleased with himself for four whole hours. But a series of concealed mirrors and
a lady-boy under the desk would surely do the trick.

My only fear is that hot-headed BBC1 hardliners, aware that Strictly is their
only entertainment hit this decade, would then push to expand ballroom right
through the schedules BBC Breakfast is unwatched. What harm could it do to make
it an all-dancing affair? Kate Silverton looks like she'd be up for an early
morning rumba and few fellas could resist a flash of Sian's fandango.

Similarly, Question Time - a tame and joyless experience - would be brightened
up no end by David Starkey in sequins doing the mambo with the dark Lord
Mandelson.

(Problems would only arise if UKIP refused to take part in any fancy foreign
footwork and insisted instead on trad British choreography such as the Highland
fl ing or the pogo. ) Lord Reith said the BBC's purpose was to educate, inform
and entertain.

But he's yesterday. It's the 21st Century now and the Corporation's only
remaining role is to dance.

Scheduling clash. BBC1: Strictly Come Dancing. ITV: Strictly dumb, can't sing.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: YOLK'S ON US: Laila and Bobby
BLAIR SWITCH PROJECT: Lionel advies the under-fire new judge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 27, 2009

Denis MacShane

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 80 words


Build a progressive alliance to bring in fixed-term, four-year parliaments, 15%
of laws promoted by cross-party backbenchers and no more than two terms as a PM
or minister. Tory xenophobia on Europe is little better than Ukip. So Labour
should think strategically but vote tactically. Bring in democratic funding of
politics before Lord Ashcroft buys up every media source and uses money power to
install rightist Europobes as Tory MPs.

Denis MacShane is a former Minister for Europe


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 27, 2009

Focus: Labour Conference: HOW CAN LABOUR WIN THE NEXT ELECTION?

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 80 words


Build a progressive alliance to bring in fixed-term, four-year parliaments, 15%
of laws promoted by cross-party backbenchers and no more than two terms as a PM
or minister. Tory xenophobia on Europe is little better than Ukip. So Labour
should think strategically but vote tactically. Bring in democratic funding of
politics before Lord Ashcroft buys up every media source and uses money power to
install rightist Europobes as Tory MPs.

Denis MacShane is a former Minister for Europe


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 27, 2009

Focus: Labour Conference: Brown prepares his last desperate roll of the dice:
The birthplace of New Labour could prove its final rallying point, as party
delegates gather in Brighton with the spectre looming of electoral defeat next
spring. The prime minister will urge followers to focus on those voters hit
worst by recession - ironically, the very people Labour is expected to help -
who are suffering most. But his enemies are becoming impatient

BYLINE: GABY HINSLIFF, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2187 words


It is a short walk from the white wedding cake facade of Brighton's Grand Hotel
to the stage where Gordon Brown will deliver perhaps his last conference speech
as Labour's leader. But the way is lined with ghosts.

For many politicians, this town symbolises resurrection: it is forever
associated with Margaret Thatcher's declaration that "the Lady's not for
turning", and with the courage of those who survived the IRA bombing of the
Grand Hotel during the Conservative party conference in 1984.

But for New Labour, Brighton means something more. For this is the seaside town
where it was born, at the 1994 party conference which abolished Clause Four and
set the seal on the British left's most successful incarnation.

"What we need again is that degree of ambition, that degree of courage, that
degree of willingness to take an argument to the country," says the cabinet
minister Tessa Jowell, who will try to recall the spirit of 1994 at tonight's
rally organised by the think-tank Progress.

But Brighton can also be where it ends. It was here that Neil Kinnock tripped on
the beach, a potent image of his unelectability, and here that Jim Callaghan
spurned an early election that might have spared him the catastrophic defeat of
1979. Now, once again, Labour faces the threat of a lost decade.

Today's calls to arms from Jowell, Alistair Darling, Jack Straw, Peter Hain and
Ed Balls reflect Peter Mandelson's blunt instructions to the cabinet last month
to get up off the floor and fight. But in private ministers now talk frankly
about their career plans post-defeat, while backbenchers are distancing
themselves from the leadership for survival.

"Gordon is a loser: he's neither liked nor respected," says one MP who, despite
a majority of more than 10,000, deems his seat marginal. "All you can do now is
dig in, keep it local - and any rebellions where you've opposed the government,
flag them up for all you're worth."

While political parties traditionally enjoy a poll bounce from their
conferences, nobody here is holding their breath. "There's always supposedly
going to be something that gives us a lift - G20, the conference, the budget,
whatever - but I don't think it works like that," says one cabinet minister
bluntly. "We're in a bad way."

It is not just that unemployment is back to 1997 levels, or that the Tories are
now more trusted on healthcare, or that party membership is down by 60%. Neither
is it even just that the Labour party is 17 points behind in the polls, with
Middle England voters deserting in droves. The critical factor is that those who
are now breaking faith are the core vote, whose defection threatens Labour's
very survival.

Chris is 49, separated from his wife but stuck in their old home because he
can't afford to move out. He holds down two jobs and is looking for a third, but
wages are so low he can't afford to buy the children's shoes. He doesn't even
want to think about what the future holds.

Julie is an agency carer: she doesn't like the rented flat she shares with her
partner but has too little left over after all the bills to consider moving.
She's been on a council waiting lists for five years and fears that her landlord
may force them out.

In a report to be debated on the Brighton fringe this week, the Resolution
Foundation think-tank identifies Chris and Julie - and another 13.7 million low
earners like them - as the hidden casualties of the recession.

They are what Brown will call in his conference speech the "squeezed middle" -
not poor enough for maximum state help, not rich enough to survive a crisis on
their own - and they will be at the heart of his election campaign.

This group were stretched before and are now uniquely "squeezed, exposed and
overlooked", according to the foundation: unlike benefit claimants, whose income
remains at least stable, their earnings shrink in tough times - many are
self-employed - yet, unlike the affluent, they have no savings to fall back on.
They are too poor to get on the property ladder, not poor enough to get top
priority for council housing: theirs is the worst of all worlds.

And while people such as Chris and Julie used to be the backbone of the Labour
party, they are no longer.

Polling shown to the political cabinet revealed that while the Tories are seen
as being for the rich, Labour are for "immigrants and the poor" - at a time
when, according to Fabian Society research, many of the traditional poor now
define themselves as "in the middle".

"We seem to have lost it with the people we have helped: that's one of the
paradoxes," says David Blunkett, the former home secretary, who will speak at
the foundation's fringe meeting.

"We have lost it with people working in education and health, when we have put
more money in and created more jobs; we have lost among those in retirement; we
have been hit very hard [among] women, when actually we have done more than any
government.

"We seem to have taken measures that have been resented by those who didn't
benefit, and set aside by those who did."

Brown's plan to woo the squeezed middle includes highlighting "Tory cuts", since
polling shows that C1 and C2 voters rely heavily on public services and strongly
fear cutbacks.

Communities secretary John Denham will also target them this week with
controversial new plans tackling rights to council housing and fears that
immigration depresses wages for British nationals.

Yet a campaign targeting White Van Man is not without risks. "I was really
irritated to hear John Prescott talking about Harriet Harman [spending too much
time on] the dinner tables of Islington," says Emily Thornberry, whose highly
marginal Islington South and Finsbury seat includes both millionaires and
deprived council tenants.

"It makes me really mad that people think inner London doesn't have a
working-class vote. We also have a multiracial vote, and I am very concerned
that we don't in any way pander to fears of an increase in the BNP vote."

Jowell echoes her argument that the heartland vote is not just "people who are
poor" but the broader coalition underpinning New Labour.

But even if Brown merely targets his "squeezed middle", winning them back is no
longer as simple as fighting the Tories: 14% of those polled by the Resolution
Foundation back Ukip, confounding suggestions that the Eurosceptic party largely
hurts the Tories. What threatens Labour next year is a political earthquake.

To understand the threat, Labour delegates need merely to wander out of the
conference centre. The Brighton Pavilion seat is the Green party's best shot at
a parliamentary seat in 2010 and it has draped the seafront in cheeky slogans
promoting its candidate.

Now Labour is fighting not just the Tories but the Greens in Brighton and
Norwich, the SNP in Scotland, the BNP in east London and parts of the Potteries,
and the Liberal Democrats in a handful of urban seats from Islington to
Edinburgh South. "We didn't have a Lib Dem strategy last time and we still
haven't really got one now," admits one Labour aide.

The power of independent candidates to exploit anger over Commons expenses will
also be tested in November's by-election for the Glasgow seat vacated by former
Speaker Michael Martin. Last week John Smeaton - an airport baggage handler
turned local hero after confronting the Glasgow airport bombers - announced that
he would stand here in the first trial of the power of Jury Team, an
organisation set up to support independents.

In an article for the Institute of Public Policy Research Journal to be
published this week, local government expert Tony Travers argues that the lurch
to fringe parties during last June's elections was no temporary blip: "People
appear to be gradually moving away from the old two-party system, and to some
extent from other incumbent or establishment parties as well. This fact was
established before the expenses scandal."

What saved all three parties from worse pain in June, he points out, was the
first-past-the-post voting system for local elections. The cabinet is still
arguing over whether to promise a referendum on PR at the same time as the next
election - several senior ministers are warning Brown that it would distract
from the campaign and split the cabinet - but he still wants to be able to
promise some major constitutional reforms in his platform speech.

Which leaves Labour still seeking what the Fabian Society's Sunder Katwala calls
its "hand grenade", an idea big enough to capture the public imagination once
again.

Last year all eyes were on his brother, until he blew it by posing for
photographs with a banana. This year it is the turn of Ed Miliband - younger
brother of David, manifesto author, Peter Mandelson protege and, some think, a
future leader. He will urge delegates in his speech today to think big, adding:
"Safety first won't win this election: business as usual won't win the election.
The way we will win is with boldness."

Boldness, however costs money: one leading candidate for the pre-manifesto
document to be published this week, "A Choice for Britain", would have been the
campaign for a high-speed rail net work to be launched today by transport
secretary Lord Adonis, but the word in Whitehall is that the Treasury has not
yet worked out how to fund it.

Instead Brown will showcase plans to fund long-term care for the elderly by
asking the middle classes to stump up more, get rid of remaining hereditary
peers, speed up cancer treatment, and boost nursery places for two-year-olds.

He will also signal an autumn battle over police reform, warning that the police
response to anti-social behaviour still falls far short of what many Britons -
particularly those in the squeezed middle - wants.

On the conference fringe, there will be similarly bold calls for tax rises and
for cuts to middle class welfare: Blunkett will become the first senior Labour
figure to call for an end to universal child benefit by taxing it, arguing that
the left can no longer afford a "tax-free handout" for the richest.

Yet genuinely big ideas require a nerve that Brown seems to lack. "It's all a
bit 'yeah but no, but yeah but no'," says one Labour aide, describing his habit
of advancing in incremental steps and retreating when criticised. "Now it's
about leadership, and only he can provide that," says a cabinet colleague.

Brown's one consolation is that he looks unlikely to face a coup in Brighton.
Instead, the pre-budget report in November - the last big chance to shift the
polls - is viewed as the turning point. Rumours swirl that many big names backed
Brown during his leadership crisis only on condition that he could transform
Labour's fortunes by the new year: if he can't, will there one be last push? "He
will get their support at conference. The time to watch will be in January or
February, when it will hit people that they have matter of weeks left," concedes
Brown's former leadership campaign manager, Chris Leslie.

A cabinet minister says there is no active plot, but the situation is fluid:
"One or two people are saying that by November if the polls are the same, then
something spectacular will happen."

More common however is a mood another cabinet minister describes simply as
"bloody frustrated", both with Brown and with lethargic colleagues.

As Alan Johnson has found, however, any minister who shines too brightly risks
being accused of a leadership bid.

Harriet Harman rules herself out of the running this weekend, telling Observer
Woman magazine that she would refuse even if begged to stand: "I'm happy to be
categoric, and show people beyond any doubt."

The children's secretary, Ed Balls, has fewer qualms, telling the Times : "I
don't think you could honestly say you wouldn't like to have a go."

But a leadership contest will not be the only consequence of defeat. Driving
through her south London constituency last week, Jowell recalls being oddly
moved by the sight of a middle-aged woman helping an older West Indian man along
the road. "She was obviously a carer, and I just thought: these people will be
small change for a Tory government. They are not going to give a toss about
people like these," she says, arguing that Labour has a moral duty to fight for
them.

The slogan Brown used at the TUC conference, telling delegates not to "risk the
recovery" by rejecting Labour, previewed one of his main themes: that if Labour
loses, the nation suffers.

Its closest echo is the 1992 campaign - organised for John Major by his then
strategist Shaun Woodward, now a member of Brown's cabinet - appealing to voters
to stick to the devil they knew. Welsh secretary Peter Hain will deliberately
echo that in his platform speech today, arguing that next spring's election
"will be decided at the very last moment" - as it was in 1992, when Labour was
still in the lead on polling day and some voters lost their nerve only in the
voting booth.

It is a tacit admission that there is little hope now of reversing the Tories'
lead before polling day, leaving everything resting on the final weeks of
intensive campaigning. Pinning hopes on a last- minute miracle is, admittedly, a
desperate gamble. But a gamble may now be Brown's last hope.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 27, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Every loser wins;
Dodgy politicians, rash bankers - they'd all come up trumps if the new version
of Monopoly had a few tweaks, write Mark Keenan and Niall Toner

BYLINE: Mark Keenan ;Niall Toner

SECTION: HOME;FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1055 words


As property prices collapse around the globe, Monopoly, the board game made by
Hasbro of Waterford, is celebrating its 75th birthday. Since September 9, a new
online versioof the game has beerunning live, allowing players to buy real Irish
streets once they are viewable oGoogle Maps. And a boxed City edition, featuring
22 of the world-s most popular urbacentres, has also beelaunched.

Just as ithe real world, the old rule book has beethrowout of the window.

Ithe new board game, property prices don-t remaistatic - they carise and fall -
and players canow build skycrapers, sewerage works, sports stadiums, wind farms
and schools iadditioto hotels and houses.

The City edition-s Chance cards include directions to dodge tax and steal
property from your opponent.

Anthony Redmond, the reigning Irish Monopoly champiowho is ranked fourth ithe
world, has givethe updated editiohis approval. "Although there-s a whole new
range of quirky details to consider, like how to sabotage your opponents and
keep your property safe, the rules are simple and the new board is easy to
navigate. With the new 3D aspects, such as skyscrapers and tower blocks, I-d
advise you to roll the dice ia bowl!" Meanwhile, we at Home Ireland have
produced our owupdated versioof Monopoly to reflect the problems being
experienced ithe Irish property market. We call our versioNamapoly. Here-s how
it works.

Contents

Instead of the old player markers (dog, iron, boot, etc), we have a tightened
belt, a crashed Dublibus, a mothballed helicopter, a headless chickeand a pup.
We have, however, retained the rotund cat from our previous Tiger and Soft
Landing editions.

Namapoly introduces Bailout cards, giveat the start of the game to the player
icharge of the bank.

Chance cards have beerenamed Chancer cards.

All properties othe new board have had their prices cut by half since the Tiger
and Soft Landing editions.

The Jail and Free Parking squares are now marked No Jail and Limo Parking.

The rules A fundamental change to the game sees the bank starting with no money
at all. Instead, the bank is issued with all the game-s Bailout Cards. Every
time the bank plays a Bailout card, it collects (EURO)27,000 from each player.

Although the bank cannot lend any cash, the player icharge of it must convince
the other players that it is still opefor business. Failure to do so sees the
bank forfeit its Bailout cards.

Players who are civil servants receive 25% more cash at the outset.

Players who owmore thaone hotel are automatically declared bankrupt.

Players trying to sell properties oAilesbury or Shrewsbury Road automatically
lose half their property-s value during each turthat the properties remaiunsold.

No player may sell a house without obtaining a BER rating (cost (EURO)300).

Players who owmore thaone property must pay (EURO)200 for every extra property
they owwhethey pass Go!

Players now require a re-zoning decisioto build otheir properties. Success or
failure is determined by taking a Chancer card. If the player is a local Fianna
Fail councillor, the decisiois automatically positive.

Whoever owns the Bus Statiomust pay (EURO)40,000 every turto cover
compensatiofor crashes.

New Community Chest cards A UKIP canvasser calls at your door - miss a turn.

Your estate agent returns a phone call - advance two spaces.

Your estate agency has closed dow- go back two spaces.

You receive planning permissiofor aoutrageously gauche house simply because the
council is broke and needs all the development contributions it caget - collect
(EURO)10,000.

You need to build a new kitcheextensio- pay (EURO)15,000 (dowfrom (EURO)90,000
ithe Tiger edition).

You need a new "for sale" sig(the old one has rotted away) - pay (EURO)200.

Your house is repossessed - if your assets are worth less tha(EURO)500,000, miss
three turns. If you are worth more tha(EURO)10m, take a Bailout card.

The Electric Company - raise your bills by 30% per turn.

The Gas Company - (EURO)400 for household heating iJuly and August, please!

If you owGraftoStreet, lose 23% of your rents each turn.

The government and banks have ruined the country - pay (EURO)5,000 extra iannual
tax.

You inherit (EURO)100 - pay 25% itax.

Annuity matures - collect nothing.

Chancer cards

You are the only politiciathat the Standards iPublic Office Commissiohas managed
to prosecute successfully over its entire eight years of existence - receive a
slap othe wrist, pay a fine of (EURO)5,000 and receive a free holiday ia top
Killarney hotel.

You are a councillor who has beecaught dodging income tax - pay the tax plus a
fine and receive a slap othe wrist.

You wisecond prize ia beauty contest - collect (EURO)100 and next time get your
dad onto the judging panel.

You owa bank and have beecaught massaging the books to deceive shareholders
about its true market value - collect a massive pensioand a Bailout card.

You have wasted (EURO)60m oe-voting machines that don-t work - take a
(EURO)68,000 junket to Beijing.

You have beeappointed chairmaof the CommissiooTaxatioto sort out sweeping
cutbacks across the whole economy and impose a range of new taxes - receive
(EURO)1,000 a day.

You discover gas off the coast but siga deal with the exploratiocompany that
means the price of household gas remains exactly the same. Take another Chancer
card.

Move forward one space - if you are a government minister, receive (EURO)450 for
the limousine to take you there.

The building society you ruis worth nothing - retire and collect a massive
pension.

The bank pays you a dividend - of nothing.

Hints ohow to play

Follow the Skyscraper Index - this is the economic rule that market crashes are
usually flagged by the constructioof numerous monumental buildings. So as sooas
you see plenty of 20-storey towers going up, it-s time to cash iyour chips.

Bluff. Remember, ithe property game it doesn-t matter how much you are actually
worth or how feasible a development scheme really is. It-s all about the size of
your cojones, the whoosh of your golf swing and the irrational behaviour of your
banker.

Up-end the board - just like the real thing, Namapoly is only a game. If
everything goes belly-up ithe property world, what the hell? Just flip the board
over and let someone else cleaup the mess. It isn-t your fault, because you were
the guy with the guts to take risks ithe first place.

"YOUR ESTATE AGENT RETURNS A CALL - ADVANCE TWO SPACES"

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How the tweaked game might look; inset, the taoiseach, Brian Cowen
Thousands of Irish protesters march in the streets against Nama
Why would there be a square marked Jail? So many to blame over the crisis have
escaped it
Fergal Phillips

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 27, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

OBITUARIES

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 475 words


Piers Merchant A former Tory MP who was dogged by sexual misfortunes Piers
Merchant, who has died of cancer aged 58, was a Conservative MP catapulted out
of relative obscurity by being photographed in a passionate embrace with a
blonde "hostess" at the height of the 1997 general election campaign. The
photograph, taken in broad daylight in a park in the married MP's Beckenham
constituency, represented a nadir in the party's fortunes. The Sun, which had
switched allegiance from the Conservatives to Labour, published the photograph
on its front page and accused Merchant of indulging in "an open-air sex romp".
It identified the object of his affections as being Anna Cox, a 17-year-old who
had worked at a nightclub in Soho.

The errant MP was dubbed "sleaze Merchant". His parliamentary colleagues, among
whom he was almost universally well-respected, privately wondered how he could
have been so stupid. The hapless Merchant protested that he had been set up.

Despite the uproar, Merchant held Beckenham at the election. The matter might
have ended there. But Merchant, determined to get to the bottom of the episode,
befriended Cox by employing her as a researcher to work on a book he was writing
about parliamentary sex scandals. Cox revealed, he said, that she had been
recruited straight out of Soho to act as a "honey trap". Years later, Merchant
told friends, this was confirmed by Stuart Higgins, who had been editor of The
Sun at the time of the exposé.

But the tale had another twist. By the time Merchant had extracted the
information from Cox, the pair had embarked on an affair. He took her to the
Tory conference in Blackpool and afterwards for a two-night break in York at a
flat owned by his former researcher, Anthony Gilberthorpe. He was about to fall
victim to another tabloid sting. Gilberthorpe had been paid £25,000 by the
Sunday Mirror, whose journalists had wired the flat with concealed video
recorders to capture the couple's cavortings.

Merchant resigned his seat but was unfailingly good-humoured about being derided
as a figure of fun by the Westminster village. He became chief executive of the
United Kingdom Independence party in 2004 and was put in charge of running its
campaign in the Hartlepool by-election that year. When the party's star turn,
Robert Kilroy-Silk, came to campaign in the constituency, Merchant arranged for
his Jaguar to be met outside the town by a huge convoy of party and media
vehicles.

The former television presenter could not have been more feted by the locals if
he had been the Pope. Merchant, who had orchestrated events from beginning to
end, let on to nobody that Kilroy had sent him a handwritten note the day
before. "Please do not stand within 10 yards of me," it read. "Because I'm sure
you'll understand that I do not wish to be photographed alongside you."

- The Daily Telegaph

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Merchant: 'open-air romp'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 27, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

WHO SCARES WINS;
With just five days to go to the Lisbon referendum, the Yes side are ahead, but
No campaigners still think they can win, writes Sarah McInerney

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1517 words


Darkness was descending on the Drumalee estate in Dublin's inner north on
Wednesday night as a young man zipped up his leather jacket and headed for the
door. As he did so, the doorbell rang.

Brian Hickey, an activist with Coir, the anti-Lisbon group, stood outside the
porch, his arms full of leaflets. "Hello," he said politely. "I wonder if you
might consider voting No in the Lisbon treaty?" The man paused; a firecracker
exploded nearby. " I don't know anything about it," said the man, unzipping his
jacket. "I've been waiting for someone to tell me. Come in and talk. So you
think I should vote No?" Hickey followed the man into his living room and
launched into his pitch. The Lisbon treaty would give huge power to Europe,
including the ability to change Irish laws, he explained. The man listened
intently. "So, will we just be a big state, like America?" he asked. "Because I
wouldn't mind that to be honest, if it would help with the recession."

Hickey tried a different tack. The treaty would also give Europe the power to
change Ireland's corporate-tax rates, to bring down the minimum wage, and put
our family laws in jeopardy, he said.

The man looked confused. "But I thought it would bring jobs? Will it not do
that?" he asked. "That's what all the politicians are saying. Why are they all
saying to vote Yes?" Hickey said that Brian Cowen would follow any instructions
from Nicholas Sarkozy, the French president, if it meant he could stay on the
Council of Ministers, and feel important. The dig at the taoiseach struck a
cord. "Sure you can't trust the politicians after what they've done to the
country," agreed the man, nodding with determination. "All right, it's a No vote
then. Thanks. I wasn't sure what to do."

Hickey walked away pleased: one more voter convinced. "It's not over yet," he
said.

Last Friday's TNS-MRBI poll had suggested that it might be: 48% of people saying
Yes, compared with 33% choosing No. With just four days left to campaign, defeat
of the referendum seems almost impossible.

Yet, the Yes campaigners remain cautious, warning against complacency, while the
No side reiterates its determination to snatch victory from Europe.

The outcome rests with the 19% of undecided voters. Can the No side's threats of
an all-powerful Europe and a reduced minimum wage scare them into voting against
the treaty? Or will grave government warnings of a devastated economy induce
enough fear to swing it their way at the second asking, and end the saga of
Lisbon? IN the three weeks since the last TNS-MRBI poll, 6% of undecided voters
have made up their minds, 4% moving to the No camp.

Joe Costello, a Labour party TD, identified this trend and sent a warning.
"Support for the Yes side has increased from 46% to 48% but support for the No
side has increased even greater from 29% to 33%," he said. "It is worrying that,
as the undecided voters begin to make up their minds towards the end of the
campaign, a 2:1 majority are opting for the No side. We must redouble our
efforts."

In the Drumalee estate, the Coir canvassers were unaware that they were being
accompanied by The Sunday Times. This newspaper was refused permission to join
the Coir campaigners officially, so opted to pose as a volunteer.

About 10 minutes into the canvass, Hickey encountered his first Yes voter. An
elderly man answered his door, peering through thick glasses, smiling genially.
"I voted No the last time," he said. "But sure the country is bankrupt now. We
can't be out of Europe. We need to be in."

Hickey tried to counter, saying that a defeat of the treaty would not lead to
expulsion from the EU. The man shook his head, and smiled. "I've made up my
mind. We have to be in."

It was a testament to the strength of the message from the Yes campaign. None of
the pro-Lisbon groups have stated definitively that Ireland could be thrown out
of the EU, but many posters hint at the prospect, with slogans such as Ireland
Needs Europe and We're Stronger With Europe featuring in Fianna Fail's campaign.

Cowen reiterated the message, saying on Thursday that ratifying the Lisbon
Treaty protect Ireland's position within the EU, while rejecting it again would
be seen as Ireland moving to the margins.

José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said during his tour
of Ireland last week that there were doubts about the "future situation" of
Ireland.

"Some people have asked me: is Ireland going to leave the EU?" he said. "It is
important that there is certainty about the future of Ireland in Europe."

During a radio debate, Michael O'Leary, the Ryanair boss, also warned of
reprisals after another No vote. "Europe has a long memory," he said.

At a press conference on Tuesday, Brian Lenihan, the finance minister, was more
circumspect. "We need every ounce of goodwill that we can get in Europe."

The threat of grave consequences has shifted many No voters to the Yes side. By
last week, No campaigners were saying that they had "lost Tallaght", a former No
stronghold.

Noel Whelan, a political analyst, said the fear of further economic strife was
winning the argument. The Yes campaigners have successfully managed to isolate
Lisbon from anger with the government, and keep the focus on the economy," he
said.

But, in the crucial last full week of campaigning, the pro-treaty sides admitted
that there has been a resurgence of No voters, indicating that warnings about a
Yes result are having an effect.

Ciarán Cuffe, a Green party TD, wrote in his blog last Tuesday about
increasingly negative feedback. "Last Friday, I was getting a very strong Yes
vote, but last night it was more two-thirds Yes, one-third No," he said. "I
suspect it's still all to play for."

Aware of this slim chance for victory, No groups will throw all their available
resources into this week's campaign. On Friday evening, Declan Ganley of
Libertas launched a nationwide "poster blitz". Coir campaigners will travel to
Knock today to lobby those at the Legion of Mary's annual pilgrimage. The UK
Independence Party will be targeting specific groups, such as taxi drivers. "It
helps that taxi drivers talk to a lot of people," said Gawain Towler, a party
spokesman.

The No side are also managing to force Yes campaigners into live debates on
radio and television, a tactic that pro-treaty campaigners have been avoiding,
according to Billy Timmins, of Fine Gael.

"The No side used airwave warfare last year, and every time they came out on
top," he said. "This time we have kept to a ground war, talking to people
directly."

Timmins was speaking the evening before Ganley and O'Leary went head to head in
a prime time debate: and the consensus was that Ganley won. The Fine Gael TD got
caught on Friday morning, when Richard Greene from Coir simply shouted him down
during a debate on RTE's Morning Ireland.

On the Drumalee estate, the No tactics appear to be working. Of the houses
visited, about 80% announced they'd be voting No. "I did the last time, and I
will again," said one woman, winking at Hickey.

Even the undecided voters seemed inclined towards a No. "I'm on the labour, and
I want to be working, but I can't find any work," said one man. "My two parents
are inside, sick, and I need every penny I have to look after them. What has
happened to the jobs?" Hickey was quick to make a claim that has been widely
pronounced as false. "If this treaty is passed, the corporate tax rate could go
up, so the big businesses won't come here," he said.

The man looked appalled. He declared he would vote No, and that he'd tell his
brothers and parents to do the same.

Walking away, Hickey was cautiously optimistic. "This is a strong No area," he
said. "We certainly don't get this reaction every night. A lot of areas are
50/50. The response here is great. If only they'd all come out to vote."

THEREIN lies one of the key challenges for the No campaign. Last Friday's poll
showed that professed No voters were predominantly from working-class
backgrounds, and most likely to be in the 18-34 age group. In the first
referendum, only 32% of 18 to 24-year-olds voted, with 25 to 34-year-olds in the
next lowest group, at 40%.

Sinn Fein, which is campaigning for a No vote, will try to tackle this problem.
"On polling day we'll have vans with loudspeakers going around areas where
people have told us they want a No vote," the party's Aengus Ó Snodaigh said.
"We've also arranged to bring people who have no transport to the polling
stations."

Ultimately, Whelan doesn't believe that the Yes side can lose. "These things
always tighten towards the end of the campaign, so I don't think it will be as
big a gap as the polls suggest," he said. "I'd guess the Yes side will end up in
the low 50s. But 0.1% is all that is needed."

In Drumalee, Hickey managed to hit on a sore point with another undecided voter.
"So, if I want us to be neutral, I should vote No?" she asked. "That's it,"
Hickey agreed. The woman nodded. "Ok," she said.

Hickey was triumphant. Three undecided voters convinced, 19% of the population
to go, and nearly a week left to campaign.

'' ON REFERENDUM DAY WE'LL HAVE VANS WITH LOUDSPEAKERS GOING AROUND

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Land of wasted milk and money

BYLINE: By James Fielding, Ted Jeory and James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 814  words


IN a Belgian field millions of gallons of milk are flooded from tankers on to
the ground. The sight of this EU waste, repeated at countless locations across
the Continent, will leave beleaguered British taxpayers fuming.

The UK ploughed GBP 109million into the Common Agricultural Policy this year to
help rural development in this country and across Europe.

However, heavily subsidised farmers on the Continent have hosed away 25 million
gallons of milk - much of it funded by the British public - in a protest to
force the EU to overhaul dairy market regulation and boost prices.

Overproduction of milk has led to huge income losses, and tens of thousands of
farmers face bankruptcy.

Lib Dem agricultural spokesman Tim Farron said: "The pouring away of millions of
gallons of milk is a terrible waste. Someone has put a lot of effort into
producing a healthy, nutritious food source, which has been partly paid for by
Britain, and it is being sprayed all over fields.

"At a time when people are starving in the world, that kind of waste is
appalling and it is unfortunately being paid for by taxpayers here." The
National Farmers' Union dairy board chairman Gwyn Jones said: "We've made this
clear to the European Commission numerous times but they're dragging their
feet."

A spokesman for Open Europe, a think-tank calling for radical reform, said:
"This is a direct consequence of the EU's flawed agricultural policy which has
caused the dairy market to become too skewed. This is just one more example of
how the bloated EU is squandering Britain's contributions."

The UK's net contribution will rise by almost 60 per cent next year, the
Treasury has said. Britain's cost of membership will rise to GBP 6.4billion,
equivalent to about GBP 260 per UK household, from GBP 4.1billion in 2009/10.

The Treasury said it was right for the UK "to share the burden of membership
with new accession countries" but the Tories say the rising bill is evidence of
"Labour's incompetence". The spiltmilk scandal emerged as a damning new report
revealed millions of pounds of food aid earmarked for the EU's poorest people is
at risk of being siphoned off by criminal gangs.

Regulators are scathing about the GBP 500million programme meant to deliver food
and milk to people living below the poverty line. The EU Court of Auditors says
a lack of management controls means that criminals can exploit weaknesses and
divert the aid.

The so-called "EU food aid for deprived persons" was set up in 1986.

Rice, pasta, cereals and dairy products were distributed from the notorious
surplus food mountains. Since then, however, surpluses have dwindled and
officials buy food on the open market.

It is delivered to thousands of charities in 18 participating countries, with
Spain, France, Italy and Poland the largest beneficiaries. Figures show 11
million Britons "at risk of poverty", a measure defined as someone earning less
than 60 per cent of average incomes. Although the number is second only to
Italy, the UK does not take part. EU auditors now want reforms and recommend
devolving the programme.

They say: "The fact that the programme is managed at operational level by
thousands of charitable organisations, mainly staffed by volunteers and dealing
with an unstable and not easily monitored target population, poses particular
challenges for the administration of the scheme."

European whistleblower turned politician Marta Andreasen is investigating
sensational claims that millions of pounds of taxpayers money is being siphoned
off to fund terrorism. She was fired as the European Commission's chief
accountant after uncovering massive corruption, but has won a seat in the
European Parliament for Ukip.

Now she has access to a vast library of documents revealing how the budget is
carved up. "I have been told that a sum of 1.5 billion euros was given to a
country to pay for improved security measures, " she said last night.

"However, I've been informed that the money assigned to the agency has not gone
through for the correct purpose and that some of the money is being used to
support terrorism. We're talking about 1.5 billion euros for security measures
going missing here."

She added: "The madness is in the way the system is set up because there are no
controls to make sure the money gets through to the right people.

That is what I highlighted when I was chief accountant and that is what I will
continue to highlight as a politician."

Ms Andreasen, 54, says the Court of Auditors are already getting nervous about
publishing the budget in November as it is believed that once again they will
not be able to sign off it off because they cannot get to the bottom of the
secretive procedures.

"There is a fear about publishing these accounts because the problems have not
been resolved and the controls are not strong enough, " she said.

"Most of the payments made are not going to the right people."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DUMPED:
Milk is poured away outside the EU headquarters in Brussels last week in protest
at falling dairy prices Liberal Democrats MEP Chris Davies is furious at the
waste

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

But Euro MPs still cream off big rise

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 197  words


ONLY six of Britain's 72 Euro MPs turned down this summer's GBP 20,000 pay rise,
a Sunday Express survey found.

Those not to taking the cash are Gerard Batten, Godfrey Bloom and Derek Clark of
Ukip, Tory Philip Bradbourn and the SNP's Alyn Smith and Ian Hudghton.

But every Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green MEP now rakes in about GBP 85,000 a
year.

MEPs voted themselves the new package to harmonise pay for all 736 members of
the European Parliament.

Under the old system they earned the same as their counterparts in national
parliaments.

That meant the British got about GBP 65,000 a year, Italian MEPs were paid about
GBP 128,000 but the Bulgarians got only GBP 8,000 a year. Ironically, when they
debated the reforms, British MEPs thought they were voting for a pay cut but
then the pound collapsed, meaning a pay rise. But Mr Batten said: "In the
current climate I did not feel justified in taking a massive pay rise."

Lib Dem MEP Diana Wallis said she voted for the reforms "on the principle of
equality".

But Robert Oulds of the Bruges Group thinktank said taxpayers would be appalled.

He added: "Those who have taken the pay rise should be ashamed.

Their job is not exactly demanding."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HARD TIMES? MEP Robert Evans dozes among empty seats in Strasbourg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

What would Maggie think of EU embassy

BYLINE: By James Fielding and James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 346  words


EUROCRATS are blowing GBP 25million of taxpayer's cash on transforming Margaret
Thatcher's old Conservative headquarters into an EU super embassy.

The building, 32 Smith Square in Westminster, was used by Lady Thatcher before
she became Prime Minister in 1979. The Tories moved out in 2004 but it is still
seen as a landmark of Britishness.

It is six storeys high containing almost 30 offices. But after its conversion it
will house just 68 workers from the European Commission and the European
Parliament.

The building will be renamed Europe House and fly the Union Flag alongside one
bearing the EU's circle of gold stars above the stone pillar entrance.

The redevelopment will include a roof garden, a first floor terrace, pantry, a
coffee point on every floor and even bathing facilities.

Large conference and exhibition rooms will be equipped with telecommunications
and seating for 150 people.

In line with the EU's green objectives, solar panels will be added to the roof,
in car parking spaces reduced to make room for a bicycle rack and a there will
be new landscaping of the communal rear garden.

European Institutions paid GBP 20million for the site. Refurbishment will cost
GBP 5million.

Many politicians are infuriated with the move, which they see as an attempt by
the EU to exert greater influence in the UK.

Tory MP Ann Widdecombe said: "It is an incredibly sad end to what was once a
noble building. Why we need an EU embassy, I do not know."

UKIP chairman Paul Nuttall said: "This will not so much be an embassy as an
overlord HQ, a viceroy palace. It is a stone's throw from the Houses of
Parliament but will have far superior power because Parliament only rubber
stamps what the EU gives them."

Mark Wallace of the Taxpayers' Alliance said: "The EU costs British taxpayers a
huge amount, and the last thing we need is a palatial EU embassy established at
our expense."

A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The United Kingdom is a member state of
the EU and so needs to have representation here.

We also work closely with the Government on a number of different issues."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HISTORY: Margaret and Denis Thatcher in Smith Square

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Last chance for British freedom;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 930  words


EUROPEAN federalists never give up. Like rapists, they believe when a girl says
"no" she really means "yes". Just over a year ago, Ireland voted "No" to the new
EU Constitutional Treaty, which transfers even more power from national
governments to unelected Brussels bureaucrats. That "no" should have killed the
treaty, which must be ratified by all EU countries to take effect.

But that is not how things are done in the EU. The Danes rejected the Maastr
icht Treaty in 1992 and were to ld to th ink again. Ireland rejected the Nice
Treaty in 2002 but, after lavish bribes from the EU Commission, a second
referendum reversed the earlier decision. This week history will repeat itself
as Ireland votes on the Lisbon Treaty. The country receives vast subsidies from
EU taxpayers and, in Dublin's financial meltdown, may be too scared to offend
its Brussels paymasters.

At least the Irish people are having a chance to vote. What about Britain?

Gordon Brown gave a manifesto promise at the last election to give us a
referendum too. In a typical act of chicanery, he has now gone back on his word.
Why? Because he knows we would vote "no".

This is the Last Chance Saloon for European democracy. The Eurocrats are fed up
w ith ord inary people vot ing aga inst their schemes, so there will be no
referenda in future. Previously treaties could be amended only by a new treaty,
after all EU governments had agreed the details.

Beyond that, some national constitutions such as Ireland's required separate
ratification by the voters before their government could sign up. But in future
there will be no new treaties and changes will occur by internal amendment, thus
avoiding embarrassments arising from the intrusion of democracy.

It is particularly disgraceful that Brown still denies us a referendum. He knows
his dead-end Government will be turfed out next year, by which time all EU
countries should have ratified the constitution. The Tories say they will give
the people a vote only if that process is not complete.

THE only country left to sign after Ireland is the Czech Republic.

The Czech parliament has approved it but president Václav Klaus is a Thatcherite
Eurosceptic and he could in theory delay his signature until after a British
general election. Seventy years ago at Munich, Neville Chamberlain signed away
Czechoslovakia's sovereignty to Hitler, so the Czechs will have little sympathy
for a plea to help us retain our sovereignty now.

That leaves Cameron with a dilemma.

The British people, especially potential Tory voters, are overwhelmingly
Eurosceptic and dislike the EU Constitution.

They don't want a European president, especially not if the prime candidate is
Tony Blair as a pay-off for his last decision as Prime Minister, which was to
approve this very treaty creating the vacancy.

They don't want to give up another 51 national vetoes, including in vague areas
such as "economic coordination", which could hand Brussels total control of
economic policy, tax and spending decisions.

They don't want a European Charter of Fundamental Rights interpreted by foreign
judges in Luxembourg, whereby a legally enforceable right to strike could lead
to secondary pickets flying in from Europe to harass British firms. At a stroke,
the Thatcher trade union reforms of the Eighties would become a dead letter.

Hitherto, Euro cranks argued that EU countries were merely "pooling
sovereignty". Of course, you can't "pool" sovereignty any more than you can pool
virginity but this new treaty abandons this deception and reveals the
Eurocentralist scheme in glorious Technicolor.

It creates a new State with sovereign powers to which all EU members are
subordinate. We would be European citizens with rights and obligations directly
to EU institutions above our own. Before long there will be a European army,
with British soldiers swearing allegiance not to the Queen but to President
Blair.

This was not what the British people voted for in 1975, in the only referendum
we have ever had. Ever since, we have had federalisation by stealth, with
British governments mendaciously denying the process was taking place at all. It
has been like slowly boiling a lobster from cold. By the time it feels the heat,
it is too late.

WE COULD have avoided Hitle r if people had read Mein Kamp f before handing him
supreme power. Just like Hitler, Eurofederalists have made no secret of their
anti-democratic methods.

The EU's founding father Jean Monnet wrote in a letter to a friend on April 30,
1952: "Europe's nations should be guided towards the super-state without thei r
people understanding what is happening.

This can be accomplished by successive steps, each disguised as having an
economic purpose but which will eventuall y and irreversibly lead to
federation."

With a decisive act of leadership, David Cameron can expose the whole rotten
project. Gordon Brown's government has no democratic legitimacy and no moral
right to sign away British sovereignty.

Cameron should throw down the gauntlet and announce that the first act of an
incoming Conservative government would be to hold a referendum on the EU
Constitution. Harold Wilson did exactly that in 1974 and became Prime Minister.

Millions of natural Tory supporters who have voted Ukip or given up voting would
flock back to the party. That bold declaration would also serve notice on EU
apparatchiks that, here in Britain, we take democracy seriously. Possibly, with
the super-state so far advanced, they might now refuse to renegotiate. Hooray!
It costs us well over GBP 50billion a year to belong to the EU. We are better
off out.

j

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST: An Irish poster urges voters to reject the Lisbon Treaty this
week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday

It's our country - let us run it

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: NEWS; THE STATE OF EUROPE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 544  words


José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, has told us that the
reason for the European Union is to stop Germany invading France. Again. Now
Berlin has realised that Paris is not worth the bones of a single Pomeranian
Grenadier, that's dealt with, so what reason for the EU's continuation can there
be?

Quite, there isn't one, but as ever with bureaucracies and political structures,
the expiry of their reason for existence never means the expiry of their
existence.

What we thought, what we were told, we were joining all those years ago - a
Common Market to open up the markets and riches of Europe to us and our trade -
has become an over-arching government. One that has taken to itself the powers
to determine how we may light our living rooms, how many hours we may legally
work and even where we may put our rubbish. Our own Parliament at Westminster
has become a mere county council, enacting by rote decisions made elsewhere.

Tony Benn's questions about power have uncomfortable answers when we ask them of
the EU. "What power do you have? How? For whom? With what limits and how do we
get rid of you?'' To which the answers are: "Too much, they took it, themselves,
very few and we can't''.

That isn't the set of answers that we want to have in a democracy or a free and
pleasant land. At the very minimum, we need to be able to take powers back,
exercise them for ourselves and, most importantly, we have to be able to get rid
of those in power in some manner, all of which are extremely difficult at
present.

The passage of the Lisbon Treaty will make them impossible in theory, let alone
in practice. For the treaty becomes self-amending: never again will it be
necessary to put the collation of ever more power into Brussels to the popular
vote. Not that the results of such previous queries have been listened to; no
one listened to the rejection by the French, by the Dutch and no one is
listening now to the Irish rejection. Every time the people have insisted on a
halt to integration, they have been force-fed yet more, as if they are silly
geese who really ought to want to be foie gras.

This is just one of the reasons why we in the UK should have a referendum, a
proper one. No one under the age of 52 has been able to vote on the great issue:
should we be part of this system or not? If we don't have one now, while Lisbon
remains under discussion, we never will be asked such a question.

David Cameron's attitude is terribly confusing: if everyone else signs up then
he'll do some things, though he knows not what they'll be. Why doesn't he just
halt the whole process in its tracks? Say that whatever happens elsewhere, the
British people will be given a referendum? Or would he really prefer to run that
county council than be prime minister of a free, independent country?

Let's be serious about this, sensible: what is so awful about asking the people
of a country how they wish to be ruled and by whom? It shouldn't have to be us
in Ukip alone arguing this, it should be something demanded by every Briton as
of right. It's our country and we'll decide what happens to it, thank you very
much, and woe betide the politician who denies us that.

Nigel Farage is leader of the UK Independence Party and an MEP for the South
East

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A maverick MP felled by sleaze;
Lives remembered

SECTION: COLUMNS; 47

LENGTH: 530  words


Piers Merchant

JAN 2, 1951 - SEPT 21, 2009

PIERS MERCHANT, the Conservative MP whose affair with a 17-year-old glamorous
blonde "hostess" came to symbolise Tory sex "sleaze", died earlier this week
from cancer, aged 58.

At the height of the 1997 general election campaign, when John Major was driving
home his "back to basics" moral crusade, Merchant was catapulted on to the front
pages after he was photographed by a national newspaper kissing teenager Anna
Cox in a park in his Beckenham constituency.

Despite being caught red-handed, Merchant, a committed Thatcherite who was
personal private secretary to social security secretary Peter Lilley at the
time, denied any wrongdoing and insisted that he had been set up.

He was quoted as saying: "That may well be me kissing her in the picture but I
see nothing wrong with that. I am sure my wife will not be the slightest bit
concerned."

His wife Helen conceded that while her husband had been a "bloody fool" she
still loved him and would stand by him.

To make the point the couple appeared on the doorstep of their family home and
passionately kissed for the benefit of the cameras. As a photo opportunity it
was later dubbed the Worst Political Kiss Of All Time yet, despite the
controversy, he retained his Beckenham seat at the election.

The matter could have ended there but Merchant decided to hire Cox as his
assistant. It wasn't long before the pair began an affair. They attended the
Tory conference in Blackpool and enjoyed a two-night break in York at a flat
owned by his former researcher Anthony Gilberthorpe.

Little did Merchant know that Gilberthorpe had been paid GBP 25,000 by
journalists to wire his apartment with concealed video recorders to capture the
couple's cavortings.

Once the photographs were published not even his ever-loyal wife, who claimed
Cox was a family friend with whom she was happy for her husband to spend his
nights, could save him from political downfall. Under pressure from new Tory
leader William Hague, Merchant quit as an MP 48 hours later.

In a statement he said: "This is entirely my own decision. I have been put under
no pressure from anyone else to do this. I have always tried to work as
effectively as possible for all my constituents. I hope my quick decision will
reduce damage to the local association."

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant started his career as a reporter on the Newcastle
Journal. He was elected to Newcastle Central in 1983 but lost the seat in 1987.

After resigning his Beckenham seat in 1997, he went on to work for the London
Chamber of Commerce.

He became chief executive of the United Kingdom Independence Party in 2004 and
took over the running of its campaign in the Hartlepool by-election that year.

Merchant arranged for the controversial and outspoken former chat show host
Robert Kilroy-Silk to be met in Hartlepool with great fanfare when he arrived to
campaign.

However, he told no one about the hand written note Kilroy-Silk had sent to him
the day before.

"Please do not stand within 10 yards of me, " it read.

"Because I'm sure you'll understand that I do not wish to be photographed
alongside you."

Piers Merchant is survived by his wife, one son and a daughter.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONTROVERSY: Piers Merchant and wife Helen stood firm when pictures of
him kissing Anna Cox, inset, appeared

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday

International: Poll used by Eurosceptics to show victory for Irish anti-treaty
lobby dismissed as 'voodoo': Gael Poll survey produced by nationalist group:
Researchers deride 'hoax' and put yes camp ahead

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Dublin

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 915 words


Conservative party Eurosceptics and the UK Independence party are using dubious
polling data supplied by militant Irish nationalists associated with a convicted
IRA gunrunner in their campaign to kill off the EU's reform blueprint, the
Lisbon treaty.

A week before the Irish vote in a referendum that will make or break Europe's
attempt to streamline the way it is governed, the Europhobic blogosphere is
buzzing with the results of an obscure opinion poll, purporting to show a 3-2
majority against the treaty - the direct opposite of several professional
surveys conducted in Ireland in recent weeks.

The result was initially supplied to bloggers by Ukip, whose leader, Nigel
Farage, has been campaigning for a no vote in Ireland.

The findings were reported this week in the Irish Daily Mail. They were also
hailed by Bill Cash, the anti-European Conservative MP, as proof of
"overwhelming support amongst the Irish people to kill off this treaty once and
for all . . . this poll is accurate and historic." But professionals in Dublin
derided the "survey" as a hoax.

"This is a voodoo poll," commented Roger Jupp, a veteran Dublin pollster and
chairman of the Association of Irish Market Research Organisations. "It is quite
extraordinary. My colleagues and I have been looking into this. I've never heard
of these people."

The suspect survey is said to have been conducted by an organisation named Gael
Poll. Its members describe themselves as "strong Catholic nationalists" and
"Catholic researchers" who worked until last year at the Hibernian magazine,
which closed down.

The magazine was founded and edited by Gerry McGeough, a Provisional IRA veteran
once described by the FBI as a "dedicated terrorist".

McGeough spent four years in jail in Germany after being arrested on the
Dutch-German border in 1988 with AK-47s in his car, and was then extradited to
the US, where he received a three-year sentence for IRA gunrunning and seeking
to buy surface-to-air missiles to shoot down British helicopters.

He was rearrested in Northern Ireland two years ago in connection with the
attempted murder in 1981 of an Ulster Defence Regiment reservist, and bailed.

McGeough campaigned against the Lisbon treaty last year when the Irish voted no.
The Irish edition of the Sun, fiercely anti-Lisbon, gave prominent coverage to a
poll conducted by the Hibernian a week before last year's vote.

In this week's survey, Gael Poll said it found a 59-41 majority against the
Lisbon treaty after questioning 1,500 people in several Irish towns. The Gael
Poll press release declared "a massive surge in support for the no side . . . in
one of the largest polls of its kind ever carried out. Gael Poll polled 1,500
respondents in Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Kilkenny, Galway, Athlone,
Tralee, Dundalk and Letterkenny over the course of six days last week."

It added: "The results come as a shock to the government and business groups who
have poured over euros 10m (£9.3m) (into) campaigning for a yes vote."

Jupp said the methodology was flawed while another analyst said at best the
survey might be regarded as "a straw poll".

Despite his IRA past, McGeough turned strongly against Sinn F e in to espouse
far-right Irish nationalist, ultra-Catholic, anti-gay, and anti-immigrant views.

Ireland rejected the Lisbon treaty in a referendum in June last year by 53.4% to
46.6%. But on that occasion the debate was dominated by fears over abortion,
neutrality and taxation. This time, with the recession foremost, the economy has
dominated. Many economists have argued that the financial crisis has dem
onstrated the benefits of EU membership. Sinn Fein is the only one of the five
parties in the Irish parliament campaigning for a no vote next week, meaning
that the right-wing British and hardline Irish nationalist camps, ordinarily
hostile, are making common cause.

"Politics makes for odd bedfellows," said Gawain Towler, the Ukip spokesman who
started the Gael Poll controversy by sending the findings to bloggers, including
Mick Fealty, aka Slugger O'Toole, the reputable and award-winning blogger on
Irish politics who now believes he was "suckered".

"We're on the same side as the shinners (Sinn Fein)," said Towler. He added he
hoped the findings were true, but admitted they were "wildly contrary" to the
other polls.

Ukip and its EU allies have spent around euros 150,000 on the no campaign,
leafleting Irish households with lurid claims about mass Turkish immigration if
the Lisbon treaty comes into force.

Dick Roche, Ireland's Europe minister, pointed to the oddity of the referendum
alliance between Farage and Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein. "Farage's brand of narrow,
bigoted nationalism has no resonance with the Irish," he said. "The Irish have
not had a happy experience with the English over the years. People here don't
like this, they see it as manipulative."

But Tom Prendeville of Gael Poll, who worked at McGeough's magazine until it
closed down last year, was happy to unite with the English right.

"Ukip would like England to shape its own destiny. A lot of people in Ireland
would like to shape their destiny, too," he said. "If Ukip thinks it can further
the independence of its country by coming here, it's a free country."

A poll published yesterday in the Irish Times indicated a 49% yes vote in next
week's referendum, and a 33% no vote, with 19% undecided.

59%

The anti-treaty 'no vote' shown by the disputed Gael Poll. In contrast an Irish
Times poll recently reported a 33% no vote to 49% yes

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

DEAD AT 58, THE MP WHO BECAME A BYWORD FOR TORY SLEAZE

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL SEAMARK

LENGTH: 479 words


DISGRACED former Tory MP Piers Merchant - famed more for his extra-marital
affairs than his politics - has died.

Nicknamed 'Sleaze Merchant, he was twice caught with other women and came to
symbolise the scandal-ridden nature of John Major's final years in government.

The father of two, who had cancer, died this week in a hospice aged 58, with his
family by his bedside.

The MP was propelled from obscurity on to the front pages at the height of the
1997 General Election campaign when he was photographed by a newspaper indulging
in 'an open-air sex romp' with 17-year-old Anna Cox.

Merchant claimed he had been set up with blonde Miss Cox - a Young Conservative
also known as £100-a-night Soho hostess Chantal.

He denied the affair, engaging in a passionate kiss for the cameras with his
wife Helen, and went on to win the Beckenham seat for the Tories in Kent. Six
months later the couple were caught again, this time in bed, on video by a
Sunday newspaper.

Mrs Merchant again posed for photographs, not only with her husband but also
with his mistress, insisting she was a 'family friend'.

Merchant quit as an MP 48 hours later but in 2004 he was photographed on a park
bench having a furtive kiss with another lover, brunette Caroline Bew, 41.

Last night Miss Cox's mother Jenny said: 'It's very sad to hear that anyone has
died of cancer and I must say I am shocked.

'But he was an older man who led my daughter astray. He manipulated her and he
did not just nearly mess my daughter's life up, he actually did it. I could not
pay tribute to the man and Anna would not want to either. She has a new life now
far away from the dark past he left her with.'

Merchant was personal private-secretary to Social Security-Secretary Peter
Lilley when he was caught with Miss Cox.

'Anna is a dear friend and has been helping my campaign,' he insisted. 'But
there is no question of us having an affair. I never made love to her.'

He took her to the Tory party conference in Blackpool that year and afterwards,
during a two-night break, was caught cavorting with her on video in a friend's
flat in York.

Five years ago Merchant's second affair was exposed when a newspaper
photographed him in a park in Birmingham with property consultant Miss Bew. She
later detailed their four-year affair and said Merchant deceived her into
thinking his marriage was over ñ even falsifying documents to provide his
mistress with 'proof' of a non-existent divorce.

Mrs Merchant attacked those who criticised her for staying with her husband. In
an interview in 1998 she said: 'You have to work at a marriage and that's the
answer as far as I am concerned.'

Merchant later joined Ukip but failed to secure a North East seat for the party
at the 2004 European elections.

He was diagnosed with cancer in July.

Ukip party chairman Paul Nuttall paid tribute, saying: 'Piers was always
regarded as a safe pair of hands.'

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

Brussels 'took sides' in Ryanair Yes stunt

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 368  words


THE European Commission has been accused of a blatant breach of neutrality rules
in Ireland's Lisbon Treaty referendum after taking part in a "Vote Yes'' stunt
involving Michael O'Leary, the head of Ryanair.

Antonio Tajani, EC vice-president and transport commissioner, is alleged to have
broken impartiality rules by accepting an invitation to fly across the country
on a Ryanair plane emblazoned with "Vote Yes for Europe'' logos.

The budget airline is giving away  pounds 445,000-worth of free air tickets to
promote the campaign as it struggles to reverse the 2008 Irish referendum
rejection on Oct 2.

During six hours of flights on Tuesday, the commissioner was served chicken and
wild rice as Mr O'Leary taunted the "No'' campaign.

Mr Tajani stood silently by during a press conference in which Mr O'Leary mocked
Lisbon Treaty opponents as "numpties'', and "clowns''.

But Mr O'Leary's view was very different last October, following Ireland's first
referendum rejection. At the time he said: "It seems that only in the EU,
Ireland and Zimbabwe are you forced to vote twice. The vote should be
respected.''

Critics have accused him of changing his mind to curry favour with Brussels.

As transport commissioner, Mr Tajani plays a key role in competition rulings
concerning low-cost airlines and recently blocked a Ryanair takeover of Aer
Lingus.

Joe Higgins, an Irish Socialist MEP opposed to the EU Treaty, has called for the
commissioner's resignation. "Mr Tajani has removed any remaining shred of the
commission's impartiality,'' he said. "This tour seriously compromises his
position.''

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said: "The volte-face of Mr O'Leary stinks of
financial opportunism, He is clearly a man of no political principles
whatsoever.''

But Fabio Pirotta, Mr Tajani's spokesman, insisted that "the commissioner was
invited simply to give information on his portfolio.

"There was absolutely no lobbying involved.''

A Ryanair spokesman said: "We want to remind Irish people of the tremendous
benefits the EU has brought Ireland.''

The controversy comes just days after Brussels lobbyists organised a euro500,00
( pounds 445,000) whip-round in a last-ditch effort to boost Ireland's "Yes''
campaign.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

National: Political briefing: The Speaker's new broom

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 480 words


With contractors busy on their summer task, patching up the battered fabric of
the ancient Palace of Westminster, the Speaker of the Commons, John Bercow, got
out his own scaffolding yesterday to do some repair work on parliament's old and
battered procedural fabric.

By coincidence, the Daily Telegraph reopens the war of MPs' expenses today with
publication of a book detailing the transgressions of the political class it
unveiled in the spring.

It has nothing directly to do with the finer points of reforming scrutiny of
delegated legislation and private members' bills, but everything to do with the
sense of crisis which makes MPs eager converts to fresh thinking.

Bercow's most eye-catching proposal among the 10 he floated as the outline of "a
backbencher's bill of rights" was that ministers in the Lords should be required
to answer regular questions from backbench MPs.

Rather than have them brought to the Commons, a move which might ruffle too many
constitutional feathers, Speaker Bercow suggested that they do so on relatively
neutral ground, ancient Westminster Hall where backbench debates are now staged
under a Blair era reform.

Such caution must be a reassuring sign to MPs that Bercow is aware that he must
proceed with his reform mandate, the first Speaker to be elected by secret
ballot and as a new broom after the coup which ousted Michael Martin, in ways
that carry the Commons with him.

Plenty of MPs, Labour ones who voted for him as well as Tories who still shudder
at their colleague's promotion, fear Bercow thinks his extrovert personality and
campaigning zeal will carry the day alone. It won't.

His £100,000-a-year appointment of Dr Tim Hames, an Oxford don and ex-Times
leader writer, to formulate and coordinate policy reform had tongues wagging
too.

Mr Speaker's address to the Hansard Society, accompanied by a Q&A session, is
only part of his summer programme. Last week he visited the Edinburgh parliament
in search of good ideas. This week he toured schools in the north-east. In the
weeks ahead he will inspect the devolved assemblies in Belfast and Cardiff to
see how they do it.

It is only a respite, as the Telegraph's renewed assault shows. The Kelly report
on the future supervision of expenses and the Legg report on past transgressions
are due late next month. The best will in the world will not see a new
settlement agreed without a fight. After all, is not Bercow encouraging
backbenchers to stand up for their rights, not to grovel to ministers in the
hope of getting a job?

Bercow's strategy is first to boost the role of backbenchers, then of select
committees, finally of the whole House. It cannot be done in isolation from
wider reforms, nor from the politics of a coming election which will replace
many miscreants with new brooms.

By standing against him at the next general election Ukip is even trying to
replace Bercow himself.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

Irish poll predicting victory for anti-treaty lobby dismissed as 'voodoo'

BYLINE: Ian Traynorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 847 words

ABSTRACT

Conservative and Ukip Eurosceptics seize on 'flawed' data supplied by militant
Irish nationalists

FULL TEXT

Conservative party Eurosceptics and the UK Independence party are using dubious
polling data supplied by militant Irish nationalists associated with a convicted
IRA gunrunner in their campaign to kill off the EU's reform blueprint, the
Lisbon treaty.

A week before the Irish vote in a referendum that will make or break Europe's
attempt to streamline the way it is governed, the Europhobic blogosphere is
buzzing with the results of an obscure "opinion poll", purporting to show a 3-2
majority against the treaty - the direct opposite of several professional
surveys conducted in Ireland in recent weeks.

The result was initially supplied to bloggers by Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader
who has been campaigning for a no vote in Ireland.

The findings were reported this week in the Irish edition of the Daily Mail.
They were also hailed by Bill Cash, the anti-European Conservative MP, as proof
of "overwhelming support amongst the Irish people to kill off this treaty once
and for all ... This poll is accurate and historic." But professionals in Dublin
derided the "survey" as a hoax.

"This is a voodoo poll," said Roger Jupp, a veteran Dublin pollster and chairman
of the Association of Irish Market Research Organisations. "It is quite
extraordinary. My colleagues and I have been looking into this. I've never heard
of these people."

The suspect survey is said to have been conducted by Gael Poll. Its members
describe themselves as "strong Catholic nationalists" and "Catholic researchers"
who worked until last year at the Hibernian magazine, which closed down.

The magazine was founded and edited by Gerry McGeough, a Provisional IRA veteran
once described by the FBI as a "dedicated terrorist".

McGeough spent four years in jail in Germany after being arrested on the
Dutch-German border in 1988 with AK-47s in his car, and was then extradited to
the US where he received a three-year sentence for IRA gunrunning and seeking to
buy surface-to-air missiles to shoot down British helicopters.

He was rearrested in Northern Ireland two years ago in connection with the
attempted murder in 1981 of an Ulster Defence Regiment reservist and bailed.

McGeough campaigned against the Lisbon treaty last year when the Irish voted no.
The Irish edition of the Sun, fiercely anti-Lisbon, gave prominent coverage to a
poll conducted by the Hibernian a week before last year's vote.

In this week's survey, Gael Poll said it found a 59-41 majority against the
Lisbon treaty after questioning 1,500 people in several Irish towns.

The Gael Poll press release declared "a massive surge in support for the no
side... in one of the largest polls of its kind ever carried out. Gael Poll
polled 1,500 respondents in Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Kilkenny, Galway,
Athlone, Tralee, Dundalk and Letterkenny over the course of six days last week."

It added: "The results will came as a shock to the government and business
groups who have poured over (EURO)10m [into] campaigning for a yes vote."

Jupp said the methodology was flawed while another analyst said at best the
survey might be regarded as "a straw poll".

Despite his IRA prominence, McGeough turned strongly against Sinn Fein to
espouse far right Irish nationalist, ultra-Catholic, anti-gay, and
anti-immigrant views.

Sinn Féin is the only one of the five parties in the Irish parliament
campaigning for a no vote next week, meaning that the rightwing English and
hardline Irish nationalist camps, ordinarily hostile, are making common cause.

"Politics makes for odd bedfellows," said Gawain Towler, the Ukip spokesman who
started the Gael Poll controversy by sending the findings to bloggers, including
Mick Fealty, aka Slugger O'Toole, the reputable and award-winning blogger on
Irish politics who now believes he was "suckered".

"We're on the same side as the shinners [Sinn Féin]," said Towler. He added he
hoped the findings were true, but admitted they were "wildly contrary" to the
other polls.

Ukip and its EU allies have spent millions on the no campaign, leafleting Irish
households with lurid claims about mass Turkish immigration if the Lisbon treaty
comes into force.

Dick Roche, Ireland's Europe minister, pointed to the oddity of the referendum
alliance between Farage and Gerry Adams of Sinn Féin.

"Farage's brand of narrow, bigoted nationalism has no resonance with the Irish,"
he said. "The Irish have not had a happy experience with the English over the
years. People here don't like this, they see it as manipulative."

But Tom Prendeville of Gael Poll, who worked at McGeough's magazine until it
closed down last year, was happy to unite with the English right.

"Ukip would like England to shape its own destiny. A lot of people in Ireland
would like to shape their destiny, too," he said. "If Ukip thinks it can further
the independence of its country by coming here, it's a free country."

A poll published yesterday in the Irish Times indicated a 49% yes vote in next
week's referendum, and a 33% no vote, with 19% undecided.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SCANDAL MP PIERS IS DEAD;
TORY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 85 words


TORY MP Piers Merchant has died of cancer aged 58.

Mr Merchant made headlines during the 1997 general election campaign over his
affair with teenage Soho nightclub hostess Anna Cox.

"I'm not old enough to vote but I'm old enough to know when I've been used,"
said Ms Cox, who was 17 at the time.

Mr Merchant held his Beckenham seat in South London, hired Ms Cox as his
assistant and began an affair.

He quit as an MP later that year. In the 2004 Euro election he failed to win a
seat for the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Love rat MP Piers dies, 58

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 112 words


DISGRACED former MP Piers Merchant has died aged 58 from cancer.

Mr Merchant quit John Major's sleaze-hit Tories after The Sun revealed his
affair with nightclub hostess Anna Cox, 17.

The dad of two was photographed kissing the blonde on a park bench while his
wife Helen was out canvassing for the 1997 General Election.

They also had romps at the family home.

At first he denied the story, but eventually confessed.

He resigned as a minister's aide and later stood down as MP for Beckenham, Kent.

Mr Merchant later joined the UK Independence Party, becoming acting general
secretary.

He was diagnosed with cancer in July and died surrounded by his family at a
hospice on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Affair ... Merchant

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Piers Merchant;
Conservative MP whose involvement with a teenage nightclub 'hostess' provided a
telling footnote to John Major's final days in office

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 625 words


With allegations of financial and sexual sleaze dominating the dying days of
John Major's Conservative Government, the May 1997 election campaign was
distracted for several days by the saga of Piers Merchant's "nights of passion"
with a 17-year-old Soho nightclub "hostess", Anna Cox. The titillating tale of
kisses and embraces in a park - with a Sun photographer hidden in a bush to
record the indiscretions of a married MP - might well have died away as just a
footnote to the party's worst election defeat in more than 150 years. But
Merchant was to hit the headlines again six months later and was forced to
resign his seat.

When the story first broke in March 1997, the errant MP defied pressure from
senior Conservatives to step down as a candidate in the forthcoming election.
Instead, Merchant opted to deploy his public relations background and was
photographed with his wife, Helen, standing by her man. His resolute performance
worked, winning the support of his local Conservative association. Unlike many
of his Tory parliamentary colleagues, he held on to his seat despite the
scandal.

Merchant had denied the more sordid aspects of The Sun's original story,
claiming that he had been set up. But Cox was to feature in his downfall six
months later when the pair's liaison in the flat of a friend was recorded on
camera, the MP having been set up in a sting operation by the Sunday Mirror.

Merchant tried to brazen it out again, claiming that the two of them were
working on a book about the tabloid press and that Cox was a "friend of the
family". Once more his wife made a public doorstep appearance, not with her
husband but with Cox.

The public relations exercise failed and the next day the MP resigned his seat.
He later admitted having an affair with Cox and having issued a "deliberately
misleading" public statement to cover it up. He insisted, however, that there
had been no affair six months earlier and that he fell for Cox only after he had
secret meetings with her to discover if she had set him up, and why.

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant was born in 1951, the son of a schoolmaster, and
educated at Nottingham High School and Durham University, where he studied law
and politics. He then turned to journalism and joined The Journal in Newcastle,
where he spent nine years rising through the ranks from reporter to news editor.
In subsequent years he took up various public relations positions and
directorships, including director of public affairs at the Advertising
Association.

His parliamentary career was unremarkable.

He won the Newcastle upon Tyne Central seat in 1983, having unsuccessfully
contested it in 1979. He lost the seat at the 1987 general election and returned
to the House of Commons as MP for Beckenham, Kent, in 1992.

Merchant served on the All-Party Committee on Aids as vice-chairman, and
co-chairman of the Freeflow of Information Committee. The closest he got to
ministerial influence was as parliamentary private secretary to Peter Lilley,
the social security secretary.

After resigning his Beckenham seat Merchant worked for the London Chamber of
Commerce as its campaigns director, but did not give up on his political
ambitions. In 2002 he joined the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) as a
political adviser to Roger Knapman, then UKIP's leader.

Merchant contested a North East seat in the 2004 European Parliament elections
but failed to be elected as an MEP. He had become the party's chief executive
that year and ran its campaign in the Hartlepool by-election. He is survived by
his wife, their son and daughter.

Piers Merchant, politician and businessman, was born on January 2, 1951. He died
of cancer on September 21, 2009, aged 58

He held on to his parliamentary seat despite the scandal

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Merchant used his public relations experience to deny an affair but
later admitted he had tried to cover it up

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday

Heckler breaks with decorum at Mansion House

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 271  words


HECKLING is simply not the done thing in the grand ceremonial halls of the
City's Mansion House. Unfortunately, and much to the gathered aldermen's
embarrassment at Tuesday night's annual dinner, nobody had told Godfrey Bloom.

The UK Independence Party MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire and former
fund manager broke with decorum to become the event's first heckler in living
memory by taking a couple of pot shots at Lord Turner of Ecchinswell, chairman
of the Financial Services Authority.

Guests, sated on fillet of beef and Duchesse potatoes, were sipping Château
Moulin à Vent 2005 and squirming quietly while Lord Turner blasted the bankers
in his speech when Mr Bloom decided he'd heard enough.

The recession, Lord Turner said, was "a crisis cooked up in trading rooms where
many people earned annual bonuses equal to a lifetime's earnings of some of
those now suffering the consequences''.

"Just like the FSA,'' yelled Mr Bloom.

Lord Turner studiously ignored the outburst, but Mr Bloom, a former fund manager
at Mercury Asset Management, was not to be silenced.

As Lord Turner rounded on the bonus culture again, Mr Bloom took up his struggle
- only this time to be quickly rounded on by the regulator. "I don't know who
this chap is,'' said Lord Turner. "But could you go back and start handing out
your pamphlets outside this room. And stop interrupting.''

Guests, appalled at Mr Bloom's lack of decorum, sided awkwardly with the City
"heretic'' and applauded Lord Turner.

Mr Bloom told The Daily Telegraph: "The FSA paid bonuses for the biggest failure
in regulation. Sauce for the goose, sauce for the gander.''

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday

Obituary of Piers Merchant Tory MP whose political talents were overshadowed by
his affair with a teenage Soho 'hostess'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1190  words


PIERS MERCHANT, who has died aged 58, was a Conservative MP catapulted out of
relative obscurity by being photographed locked in a passionate embrace with a
blonde "hostess'' at the height of the 1997 general election campaign.

The campaign had up until that point been dominated by a succession of stories
about Tory financial and sexual "sleaze''. But the photograph, taken in broad
daylight in a park in the married MP's Beckenham constituency, represented a
nadir in the party's fortunes.

The Sun, which had switched allegiance from the Conservatives to Labour just
days earlier, published the photograph on its front page and accused Merchant of
indulging in "an open-air sex romp''.

It identified the object of his affections as being one Anna Cox, a 17-year-old
who had worked at the Casa Rosa nightclub in Soho in the euphemistically-named
"hostess'' business. The newspaper accused Merchant of having an affair with Cox
and wrote a trenchant leader column demanding that he be "publicly
horsewhipped''.

"I'm not old enough to vote - but I'm old enough to know when I've been used,''
the paper quoted her as saying.

The story dominated the election for five days. The errant MP was dubbed "sleaze
Merchant'' and castigated for epitomising everything that was wrong with the
rapacious Conservative Party under John Major.

His parliamentary colleagues, among whom he was almost universally
well-respected, privately wondered how he could have been so stupid. The Tory
high command publicly called on him to "consider his position''.

The hapless Merchant protested his innocence and told anyone who would listen
that he had been set up. He insisted that the tryst had lasted for less than two
minutes and that he had met Cox on no more than a handful of previous occasions.
One of his few public supporters was his wife Helen, who conceded that her
husband had been a "bloody fool'' but said that she still loved him regardless.

Despite the uproar, Merchant held Beckenham with a respectable majority at an
election in which the Tory party suffered its worst defeat since 1832. The
matter might have ended there. But Merchant, determined to get to the bottom of
the episode, decided that the only way to find out the truth was to befriend
Cox.

He successfully achieved this by employing her as a researcher to work on a book
he was writing about parliamentary sex scandals. Cox revealed, he said, that she
had been recruited straight out of Soho to act as a "honey trap'' by The Sun.
The paper was apparently anxious to stitch up some Tory MPs as an act of fealty
to its new political overlords in the Labour Party.

As chance would have it, The Sun's deputy news editor, Neil Wallis, was an old
rival of Merchant's from their days spent working on local newspapers in the
North East. Cox had been speculatively sent along to a Tory meeting to get close
to Merchant, just in case his eye for an attractive young girl got the better of
his judgment.

It did. After asking if she could accompany him around the constituency as he
delivered his election material, Cox then suggested they take a detour through a
local park. The couple sat on a bench where, Merchant claimed, Cox made a pass
at him. Unbeknown to the MP, a photographer from The Sun was concealed in a
nearby ditch.

The majority of Merchant's friends regarded his story as being so wildly
improbable as to be almost certainly true. Years later, Merchant told friends,
it was confirmed by Stuart Higgins, who had been editor of The Sun at the time
of the exposé.

But the tale had another twist. By the time Merchant had extracted the
information from Cox, the pair had embarked on an affair. Merchant took Cox to
the Tory conference in Blackpool that year, and afterwards for a two-night break
in York at a discreet flat owned by his former researcher, Anthony Gilberthorpe.
In fact, Merchant was about to fall victim to another tabloid sting.
Gilberthorpe had been paid  pounds 25,000 by the Sunday Mirror, whose
journalists had wired the flat with concealed video recorders to capture the
couple's cavortings.

After the Mirror published, the ever-loyal Helen Merchant made a toe-curling
appearance on the doorstep of the family home with Merchant and Cox. The wronged
wife insisted that Anna was a family friend with whom she was happy for her
husband to spend his nights.

Merchant quit as an MP 48 hours later by applying to become steward of the Manor
of Northstead. Though he was no longer in public life, the Sunday Mirror ran
photographs from his bedroom "romp'' with Cox on its front page for two further
weeks. Years later, Merchant wryly remarked that not even the death of the Queen
Mother had merited three consecutive front pages in the paper.

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant was born on January 2 1951, the son of a
schoolmaster. After leaving Durham University in 1973, his first job was as a
reporter on the Newcastle Journal.

He contested Newcastle Central for the Tories in 1979. He stood there again in
1983 and was duly elected in the first of the Thatcher landslides. It was not
natural Tory territory so it came as no surprise when he lost the seat in 1987.

He became director of public affairs at the Advertising Association. But, as a
committed Thatcherite, Merchant was desperate to get back into the Commons.
After being rejected by seven Tory associations, Merchant only clinched the
Beckenham nomination when, in the wake of Thatcher's political assassination by
the party's left wing, he cast notes aside and spoke from the heart.

It was during the 1992-97 parliament that his ready political skills were put to
good use as PPS to Peter Lilley, the then social security secretary. After
resigning his seat in 1997, Merchant went to work for the London Chamber of
Commerce. When the LCC's board announced its intention to merge with the big
business organisation London First, he waged a highly effective campaign to stop
it happening.

Although he was notionally part of the management team charged with driving the
merger through, he utilised a series of political ploys to stretch negotiations
out for two years before they finally collapsed at an acrimonious EGM.

Merchant was unfailingly good-humoured about being derided as a figure of fun by
the Westminster village. He became chief executive of the United Kingdom
Independence Party in 2004 and was put in charge of running its campaign in the
Hartlepool by-election that year.

When the party's star turn Robert Kilroy-Silk came to campaign in the
constituency, Merchant arranged for his Jaguar to be met outside the town by a
huge convoy of party and media vehicles.

The former television presenter could not have been more feted by the locals if
he had been the Pope. Merchant, who had orchestrated events from beginning to
end, let on to nobody that Kilroy had sent him a handwritten note the day
before.

"Please do not stand within ten yards of me,'' it read. "Because I'm sure you'll
understand that I do not wish to be photographed alongside you.''

Piers Merchant, who had cancer, died on September 21. He married Helen Burrluck
in 1977, and is survived by her, one son and one daughter.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday

Obituary: Piers Merchant: Former Conservative MP ousted after 1990s sex scandal

BYLINE: Dan van der Vat

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 625 words


In the sleaze-ridden, dying years of the John Major government, there were
exposes of political moneygrubbers, hypocrites, adulterers - and there was Piers
Merchant, who got away with one bite of forbidden fruit but set a record of a
kind by resigning after being caught taking a second bite six months later.

Merchant, who has died aged 58 of cancer, won the outer suburban seat of
Beckenham, Kent, for the Conservatives at the 1992 general election. He
established himself as a rightwing but not uncompassionate Tory with an admired
record as a constituency MP, becoming a parliamentary private secretary - the
first rung on the ministerial ladder - to Peter Lilley as social security
secretary, and was active on Commons committees.

He stood for Beckenham again in the 1997 campaign and retained the seat, despite
the scandal that blew up around him in the closing stages. A tabloid newspaper
claimed that he and a 17-year-old Soho nightclub hostess had performed a sexual
act in a local park, and had been intimately photographed together in a London
flat. He decided to brazen it out and fell back on the ancient tactic of
deploying his wife, Helen, in forgiving mode, engaging her in a passionate kiss
on their doorstep before the cameras.

The Labour landslide was followed by the election of William Hague as
Conservative leader. Hague decreed that peccadilloes were not in themselves
grounds for political resignations, a far from unanimous view in the party. But
Merchant soon tested the new dispensation to destruction. Less than six months
after the election, he figured in another tabloid expose. He had apparently been
caught intimately involved with a certain Anna Cox - the very same young woman
as before. It was further alleged that the embattled MP was planning to spend
the time of the imminent party conference with her.

On this surreal occasion, Cox joined Mrs Merchant (but not her husband) on the
familiar threshold and was presented as a "friend of the family". To prove it,
Helen Merchant put a protective arm around her. This was not enough to save Ms
Cox from an attack of press-provoked hysteria, and an ambulance was called to
whisk her away from the swirling media pack.

The plot soon thickened to an impenetrable murk after an old friend of the MP
got involved. He had allegedly loaned his York flat, equipped with CCTV, to the
errant couple and then tipped off a Sunday newspaper. Merchant claimed he had
renewed his acquaintance with the hostess-turned-researcher to work on a book
about press intrusion. Could he have set up a sting to trap the tabloids, not
the other way about?

This bold stratagem, if any, was reputedly undermined by the existence of a tape
of what had transpired in the flat. The day after the second doorstep drama,
Merchant abandoned his plan to make another bold stand and told party officials
that he would resign. His constituency party had withdrawn its support. He
denied that he had been trying to entrap the tabloids.

In 2002 he joined Ukip as an adviser, acting briefly as general secretary, but
failed to win a north-eastern seat for the party in the European parliamentary
election in 2004.

Merchant went to Nottingham high school before studying law and politics at
Durham University. He then joined the Newcastle Journal, spending nine years
there before editing a Conservative publicity vehicle and taking various posts
in public relations, plus a number of directorships. He was first elected to
parliament in 1983 for Newcastle upon Tyne Central, but lost his seat in 1987.
He is survived by his wife, their son and daughter.

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant, politician and businessman, born 2 January 1951;
died 21 September 2009

Merchant claimed he was researching a book about press intrusion

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 24, 2009 Thursday 12:06 PM GMT

UKIP MEP is the first ever heckler at a Mansion House dinner

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 142 words


Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP Euro-MP, rejoices in inhabiting his own caricature.
Nonetheless,his heckling of the Widmerpoolish Lord Turner, head of the Financial
Services Authority, was absolutely spot-on. The FSA, you will remember,
spectacularly failed in its responsibilities during the financial crisis, but
paid its staff their bonuses regardless. Not that this stopped Lord Turner
complaining that the credit crunch was "a crisis cooked up in trading rooms
where many people earned annual bonuses equal to a lifetime's earnings of some
of those now suffering the consequences".

"Just like the FSA!" yelled Bloom (for a sense of what Bloom is like after a
good dinner, watch this). And he was right. The regulators were every bit as
much to blame as the banks. Why should we respond by cutting the remuneration
for bankers but raising it for quangocrats?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday

Comment and debate: Dying days of the big parties: The voting system masks a
fragmenting club of three. Calls for reform will go on, whoever wins

BYLINE: Vernon Bogdanor

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 810 words


Parliamentary government, Disraeli insisted, depends upon party. How is it to
work when the party system fragments? That is the challenge facing the three
party leaders as the conference season continues. In the last general election,
in 2005, just over three in five of us - 62% - actually voted. Of those who did
bother to vote, one in 10 voted for parties other than the big three - Labour,
Conservative and Liberal Democrat - by far the largest vote for "other parties"
since 1945. That was before the expenses scandal. In the first post-expenses
electoral test - the European elections - the three main parties gained just 60%
of the vote. The combined vote for Ukip, the Greens and the BNP was just 0.5%
less than that of the winning Conservatives, who gained only 28% of the vote.

The decline in electoral support for the major parties has become one of the
central features of British politics. It has been accompanied by a collapse in
party membership. The Conservatives, despite coming first in the local elections
and the European elections and their strong position in the polls, have lost
nearly a quarter of their members since December 2005. Just 145,000 now belong
to the party as compared with one and a half million in 1975, when Margaret
Thatcher became leader.

Labour is faring no better. In 1996, a year before its landslide general
election victory, it had 400,000 members. Now there are just 150,000. Fifty
years ago, one in 11 of us belonged to a party. Now, it is just one in 88. This
decline in party membership is probably greatest among young people, and that is
also the group least likely to vote. Generational change is fuelling scepticism
towards the orthodoxies of tribal politics. The major parties, as mass
organisations, are dying on their feet.

The expenses scandal is likely to increase support for minor parties and
independents. Previous scandals - Profumo in the 1960s, sleaze in the 1990s -
damaged only the governing party. This one casts doubt on the integrity of the
whole political class.

In the 1997 general election, an independent candidate standing on a platform of
financial probity - the television reporter Martin Bell - was elected for
Tatton, the first independent to win a seat against the major parties since
1974. Since then, there have been two others: Dr Richard Taylor, elected for
Wyre Forest in 2001 and 2005, fighting the closure of a local hospital, and a
Labour rebel, Peter Law, elected for Blaenau Gwent in 2005, fighting all-female
shortlists. Blaenau Gwent was held by another Labour rebel fighting as an
independent, Dai Davies, in a byelection following Law's death in 2006. They
have been joined in parliament by two defectors, Bob Spink, MP for Castle Point,
from the Conservatives, and Clare Short, MP for Birmingham, Ladywood, from
Labour.

Martin Bell, together with Terry Waite, the former Beirut hostage, is said to be
planning to sponsor up to 25 independent candidates in the next general election
to fight on an anti-sleaze ticket; and the TV personality, Esther Rantzen, has
already indicated that she intends to contest Luton South on a platform of
honest politics.

The first-past-the-post electoral system masks these radical changes. In the
Commons, all but 34 MPs belong to the three major parties, and 27 of these
"others" sit for constituencies in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. A
visitor from Mars would think that nearly every voter in England continued to
support the three main parties.

There has been a prodigious alteration in the public perception of parties, but
it remains unnoticed because the electoral system fails to register it. The
system refracts rather than reflects opinion, emphasising the major party vote
and de-emphasising the vote for minor parties and independents. It enables
Westminster to remain a closed shop, so allowing the major parties to postpone
confronting the crucial question of how they are to regain their lost members
and voters.

Fragmentation has already led to calls to open up the system. In 2007, Gordon
Brown offered government posts to Liberal Democrats and to those of no party
affiliation; and Labour seems to be edging towards a referendum on electoral
reform. The Conservatives instituted an open primary in Totnes to replace
Anthony Steen. To require the parties to hold primaries would open up candidate
selection, while a more transparent electoral system would allow the Commons to
reflect opinion more accurately.

The democratic spirit in Britain is not unhealthy. It is the mechanisms through
which that spirit is reflected that are at fault. The task now is to repair
those mechanisms. That is why constitutional reform is likely to remain a
preoccupation of the next government, whoever wins the general election.

Vernon Bogdanor is professor of government at Oxford University, and author of
The New British Constitution

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday

THE RICHARD LITTLEJOHN COLUMN

LENGTH: 1445 words


SAINT VINNY IS SIMPLY ANOTHER TWO-BOB POLITICIAN ON THE MAKE

THE cult of Vince Cable continues to elude me. How on earth did this mediocre,
middlebrow MP come to be Britain's most trusted politician? His speech to the
LibDem conference in Bournemouth was a platitude-packed dirge and his plan to
save the nation by soaking the so-called rich is just plain stupid.

Cable's reputation seems to be founded upon the 'Mr Bean' quip he stole from
journalist Leo McKinstry and a talent for stating the bleedin' obvious.

From the fawning coverage Cable receives, you'd have thought he was the only man
alive who saw the credit crunch coming.

Plenty of pundits warned that levels of borrowing, especially in the mortgage
market, were unsustainable and it would all end in tears. But Cable has hoovered
up the kudos.

He is the Chauncey Gardiner of modern British politics. His every utterance is
seized upon as if it contains a unique insight into our economic malaise.

Yet his first concrete proposal on taxation, intent on hammering those who live
in million-pound homes, is guaranteed to alienate wet Tory voters in the south
of England, who might just conceivably be converted to the LibDem cause.

If he had bothered to look around his own Twickenham constituency, he'd realise
that a seven-figure house price tag is no sure-fire indicator of great wealth.

Why does he think George Osborne's promise to raise the inheritance tax
threshold proved so popular?

Many of those £1 million-plus homes are mortgaged up to the hilt, with couples
working all hours to meet the repayments, or owned by retirees on fixed incomes
who simply can't afford an arbitrary increase in their tax bills.

It always comes as something of a nasty surprise to those who live outside
London, but even in some of the scruffier suburbs £1 million only buys you a
semi.

CLAIMING that any such supertax would only hit foreign billionaires such as
Roman Abramovich and Lakshmi Mittal was deliberately disingenuous, designed to
ingratiate himself with the party faithful.

It also served as a helpful and timely reminder that Cable is just another
politician on the make, not some kind of secular saint.

Actually, no one who is serious about politics would bother joining the Liberal
Democrats, who stand about as much chance of forming a government as the Monster
Raving Loonies.

Every year this crowd of weirdos, misfits and social inadequates gathers by the
seaside to pretend they are a proper political party.

Motions are composited and passed, policies announced and debated; speeches
made, press conferences convened; chicken volauvents and cheap white wine
consumed; illicit affairs consummated.

Then at the end of the week they are sent back to their constituencies to
prepare for obscurity.

Frankly, Cable could announce plans for a 100 per cent tax on all incomes over
£50,000 and it wouldn't make the slightest bit of difference.

The LibDem conference is fantasy politics, a Looking Glass world of pretentious,
patronising posturing.

As I have always argued, the LibDems are a franchise, not a party. Depending
upon where you live and who they're up against, they'll be anything you want
them to be, big boy.

In the South, they're compassionate conservatives. In the North, they're to the
left of Labour. In British bulldog Essex, they're anti-immigration. In
multi-culti North London, they're the party of Islam.

At best they are a protest vote, propped up by punters who can't stand the two
main parties but who won't bring themselves to put a cross by UKIP or the BNP.

They are the socially-responsible, conscience-salving cop-out. Voting LibDem
means never having to say you're sorry. They are the None Of The Above party.

LibDems define themselves by who they're not. That's why trusty old Vince comes
off well against sociopath Gordon and shifty Boy George.

Cleggy is too much of a Call Me Dave clone, so Cousin Vinny will be pushed to
the front of the battle bus at the next election.

Roy Hattersley wrote recently that he shared a platform with Cable and they
agreed on everything. Sounds about right.

Which makes you wonder why Vince didn't join the Labour Party. If he's as good
as we are led to believe, he would have risen rapidly, probably at the Treasury,
and would have been in a position to either prevent the credit crunch or dig us
out when it hit the fan.

Instead, he is content to snipe from the sidelines, indulged by sycophants while
remaining immune from the scrutiny and responsibility of office. Cable could
have been a contender. He's settled for being a cult.

-

DIVERSITY? WE'VE ALL GOT A CROSS TO BEAR

RESPECT for 'diversity' doesn't extend to Christianity. While the state panders
to the every whim of minorities, Britain's official religion has become a
pariah.

The latest victims of persecution are hoteliers Ben and Sharon Vogelenzang, from
Liverpool, who are being taken to court charged with 'hate crime'.

Their offence was to question aspects of Islam in a private conversation with a
Muslim guest over breakfast. When the guest complained to the police, the couple
were arrested under the Public Order Act, which is designed to cover serious
civil disturbance, such as violence in the street. They are facing a £5,000
fine, a criminal record and are staring bankruptcy in the face after being
struck off by the local hospital, which used to refer outpatients to their
hotel.

We weren't party to the conversation, so we can't be sure what was said. But
they're entitled to their opinion. Arresting them for 'hate crime' is a
monstrous abuse of police powers.

Funny how the police adopt a far more tolerant approach towards bloodthirsty
Islamist preachers of hatred against Christians and Jews.

Elsewhere, a nurse from Exeter has been ordered to remove her crucifix -- on the
weasel excuse of elf'n'safety -- even though Muslim staff are allowed to wear
headscarves.

We had a similar story at British Airways last year and in Islington, a
Christian registrar was sacked for asking to be excused from officiating at gay
weddings.

And still not a peep from the head of the established Church. The Archbishop of
Canterbury is always ready to share his views on homosexuality,
multi-culturalism and 'climate change' but he won't stick up for followers of
his own faith.

Is it any wonder that in modern Britain, devout Christians think they haven't
got a prayer?

--

WHO YOU GONNA CALL...?

WHILE all the main parties now accept belatedly that there must be cuts in
public spending, the message doesn't seem to have permeated downwards.

Town Halls are still advertising an exciting array of lucrative, pointless
non-jobs. Lancashire County Council, for instance, is desperately seeking a Myth
Busting Project Manager on £30,000 a year, plus usual perks.

The successful applicant will be responsible for 'researching Lancashire
communities' attitudes and responses to migrants and formulate and deliver a
positive campaign to dispel negative myths and perceptions . . .' After that, I
lost the will to live. However did they manage without one? When the money's
running out and it don't look good, who you gonna callÖ? Mythbusters!

--

M&S has fallen to H&S. Reader Jim Allen bought his lunch at a Marks and Sparks
food hall in the City of London. When he asked for a plastic knife, he was told
they didn't supply them.

Why not? Elf 'n' safety. You could stab someone with it. Jim would have to
settle for a fork or spoon.

When he pointed out that he could do as much damage with a fork, it cut no ice.

If you hear of anyone being scooped to death in Liverpool Street, you'll know
who did it.

--

ENFORCE THE REAL LAWS, NOT THE LAW OF THE JUNGLE

UNDER international law, the alleged asylum seekers living in the Calais
'jungle' should be returned to the first safe country they reached.

Interviewed on the wireless yesterday, one Iraqi said he had travelled through
Turkey, Greece and Italy to get to France and intended to come to Britain. Even
if he is a genuine refugee, it follows that he is the responsibility of Turkey.
The same goes for the countries where the other 2,000 young men massed at Calais
first entered Europe.

Yet the EU justice commissioner, Frenchman Jacques Barrot, is demanding they be
allowed to cross the Channel, just as earlier illegal immigrants at Sangatte
were granted the right to settle here by Jolly Jack Straw.

Over the past 12 years, we in Britain have taken more than our fair share of
asylum seekers, bogus or otherwise. There may already be as many as two million
foreign nationals living here illegally. No one seems sure. We've done our bit.
The French and our European 'partners' should face up to their own
responsibilities, not continue to look on Britain as a vast, offshore refugee
camp

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Main parties drawing up same election wish list

SECTION: LETTERS; 32

LENGTH: 162  words


THE battle lines have been drawn.

The three main parties have decided that the election is to be fought on who
will make the least damaging cuts in public spending.

UKIP can have any anti-euro votes and focus on issues such as waste collection,
lax immigration, surrendering sovereignty, increasing fuel charges - and
anything else that might have been upsetting the electorate.

All three main parties will keep Trident, because we might upset the Americans;
the Eurofighter, because we might upset the Germans and French; ID cards,
because we might upset the Americans, Germans and French.

And all three will savage public pensions, because doctors, nurses, teachers,
policemen and firemen will be helpless to prevent it.

The only problem will come after the election when politicians realise that
there aren't enough people earning enough to pay the taxes and fines - and there
aren't enough prisons to hold all those who can't pay the taxes and fines.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU 'bribe' to Irish voters

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 148  words


EUROPEAN officials were accused of making a cynical "bribe" days before Ireland
votes on the Lisbon Treaty.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, announced in Limerick
GBP 13.5million of funds to help retrain 2,500 unemployed workers.

His move angered those backing a No vote in the October 2 referendum.

Nigel Farage, leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party, said the Irish people
would see through "this cynical cross between bribery and bullying". The
referendum is Ireland's second vote on the treaty. The first, in June last year,
produced a No vote.

All EU nations are meant to ratify the treaty, which critics say hands too much
power to Brussels. Britain's MPs passed it, without a referendum, last year.

Tory leader David Cameron has promised a referendum if his party wins the
general election and the treaty has not yet been ratified by all other member
countries.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday

National: Time is running out for a Labour recovery - and it could get worse:
ICM poll hits party's hopes of picking up support: Most voters now expect Tories
to win election

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 695 words


Can things get worse for Labour? The alarming answer for the party from today's
Guardian/ICM poll appears to be yes. Today's 26% score is a bit better than last
month, and four points higher than the record ICM low recorded in May - but the
recovery, if there is one, is fragile.

ICM asked voters how likely they are to actually vote for the party they
currently say they support. Overall, 68% of people say they will stay loyal to
their choice. Among Tory supporters, 77% expect to definitely vote Conservative.
Among Labour supporters, 66% expect to vote Labour. Among Lib Dems, loyalty
drops to 57%.

The crucial voters are the ones who admit to be thinking of shifting sides - 28%
overall, including 20% of Tories, 30% of Labour and 36% of LibDems. These
potential switchers hold the key to the general election.

Labour might have hoped to have hit bedrock with today's 26% support - drawing
on a loyal base of voters who will never switch to another party, however tough
things get. Instead, even now, Labour supporters seem more likely than Tory ones
to be thinking of switching sides. That means Labour may be more likely to lose
votes before the election than pick extra ones up.

Today's poll asked these potential switchers how they might vote, if they moved
away from their current first choice. Only 13% say they may go to Labour, while
15% say they may go Conservative and 25% Lib Dem.

That is a bad result for Labour, as there is a big pool of lost Labour voters
now backing other parties. Many should be at least considering going back to
Labour. Instead, few of them seem to be thinking of returning home.

Today's figures also give the lie to claims that Tory support is unusually
fragile. If only people certain about how they will vote went to the polls, the
Conservatives would crush Labour 51% to 25%.

Of course that won't happen. Most people thinking of switching sides will turn
out on polling day. But if everyone thinking of changing party actually did
change, and then backed their second preference instead, the Conservatives would
still win 44% to 23%.

Labour can look for comfort in historical parallels. The Tories are not doing as
well as Labour did before the 1997 landslide. In September 2006, the equivalent
ICM to today's, Labour was on 47%, against 43% for the Tories now.

Nor have the Tories recovered fully from the expenses crisis: in March the
Tories hit 44% and last November they reached 45%, a recent ICM record.

But, crucially for labour's election chances, Gordon Brown is doing worse than
John Major's equivalent performance in 1996, seven months before a general
election. Then, Tory support was 32% (close to the party's eventual general
election score). Now Labour support is six points lower at 26%.

An alternative comparison is with 1992, the year the Tories last won. In the
months after the 1992 election, but before Black Wednesday transformed politics,
Conservative support averaged 41% - the same as in ICM polls in 2009 so far.

In the aftermath of Neil Kinnock's 1992 defeat, but before Black Wednesday,
Labour averaged 37%. This year so far Labour's ICM average has been 28%.

That difference is not explained by improved Liberal Democrat performance: the
1992 average was 18%, against 19% this year.

The missing support has gone to other parties, now averaging 12% in ICM polls
against 5% in 1992. Today the Green party is on 3%, as is the United Kingdom
Independence party. Among people thinking of switching their vote before the
election, 8% are considering the Greens and 7% Ukip, which collectively exceeds
the proportion thinking of changing to Labour.

In 2007 and 2008 the autumn conference season reshaped politics: the Tories shed
three points between September and December last year, dropping below 40%.

But time is running out for a Labour recovery. In the September 2007
Guardian/ICM Labour support was 40%, eight points ahead of the Conservatives. In
September 2008 Labour was on 32%, nine points behind the Conservatives on 41%.
Today the gap is 17 points with Labour on 26% and the Conservatives on 43%.

As today's poll shows, most voters now expect the Tories to win. On today's
figures, that looks a reasonable bet.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           September 21, 2009 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

'A EUROPE WHICH WORKS BETTER IS GOOD FOR IRELAND';
BRIAN COWEN WRITES FOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 410 words


THERE'S now less than two weeks before people go to vote in the referendum. A
lot of people are asking why it matters.

'There are many reasons why we need a Yes vote but by far the most important is
that Ireland needs a Europe that works.

The EU is the foundation on which we can create jobs and achieve economic
recovery.

Over the weekend 180 very senior executives from around the world came to Dublin
to talk about how best to move our economy forward.

Absolutely everyone insisted that Ireland being a positive member of the EU is
vital.

Already two out of three of all Irish jobs rely on Europe, so we can't just sit
back and act as if what happens in Europe doesn't matter to us.

But the reality is that many of the EU's rules are 50 years old and they don't
allow Europe to tackle some of the big problems facing us today.

If you think Europe has been slow at times to respond to the global economic
crisis you're right - and that's because the rules either won't let it act or
block attempts to get fast action.

To give just one example, since the recession began last year the chairperson of
the most important body in the EU has changed five times.

This would cause trouble in a local sports club, but in a major international
body it can cause a lot of disruption just when you need stability.

The Lisbon Treaty will sort this out, as well as help the EU to work on our
behalf on issues like securing reliable and affordable energy, saving the
environment and tackling crossborder crime.

This sounds like common sense - and it is. That's why there are many groups out
just making things up in order to try and get people to vote No.

Every single expert who has ever looked at the issue has confirmed that Lisbon
will leave our minimum wage fully in place and can never change it.

Yet the posters are still there. The UK Independence Party has now joined in and
is putting leaflets into every house which make extreme attacks on the EU. I
believe that the readers of the Irish Daily Mirror and the Irish people in
general are too intelligent to fall for these types of scare tactics. A Europe
which works better is good for Ireland.

That's why 86% of all job creators are calling for a Yes vote and why the
Congress of Trade Unions is also calling for a Yes. Yes is for jobs and
investment, strong protection of workers and for Ireland's future.

Ireland and Europe work better together and that's what you'll get to vote on
Friday October 2.

An Taoiseach, Brian Cowen, TD

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOT HIS VOTE Taoiseach Brian Cowen in Dublin yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 20, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Why a Yes vote will not work in Ireland;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1030 words


THE misleading nature of the Lisbon treaty campaign thus far compelled me to
re-enter the debate (Ganley to lead Lisbon 'No' battle, News, last week). As
this country makes a decision that will set the path for our long-term economic
and political security, it is not a time for anyone to stay silent and I do not
believe that truth requires a mandate.

Our elected leaders have littered lampposts with the lie that this treaty will
create jobs. This is just not true: the Lisbon treaty is a job killer. The only
job it will save is Brian Cowen's and it is too high a price to pay for one
man's job.

We have one of the most open economies in the world, with strong trading
relationships both inside and outside the EU. It is vital for Ireland's economic
interests that we retain control of our own economic affairs and manage them to
meet our needs. Economic decisions that may benefit large economies such as
France and Germany may not work here.

Our ability to be flexible in tax matters has resulted in a significant amount
of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) coming to Ireland. This type of investment is
a real creator of wealth which has endured while the governmentsponsored
property bubble has burst. Our ability to attract this type of investment has
been the envy of many countries. Declan Ganley Tuam, Co Galway A far-right
palaver How strange that the UK Independence Party (UKIP) should become involved
in the Irish referendum on the treaty. Those who know UKIP only as the party of
former chat-show host Robert Kilroy-Silk should realise that they are, in fact,
a far-right nationalist party.

UKIP'S involvement in Irish politics is a blatant attempt to hijack our
referendum, all to suit a British agenda that has no consideration at all for
Irish interests. UKIP declared at the opening of the European Parliament last
July that they will lead a campaign in Ireland to reject the treaty. They fear
that if the Irish vote Yes and Lisbon is ratified, it will scupper their plans
to remove Britain from the EU altogether. Pauline Byrne Walkinstown, Dublin 12
Stand up to the bullies Following the No vote in 2008, the government and most
of our politicians treated the Irish electorate with contempt. Instead of
respecting the will of the people by declaring the treaty dead, politicians
right across Europe labelled No voters uninformed, misguided, ungrateful and
wrong. They then "negotiated" guarantees that are meaningless and are now
bullying the Irish people into voting Yes in a second referendum.

We had a strong voice in Europe by voting No in 2008 and the people of Europe
respected us. Ireland could have been a champion for all Europeans but our
leaders once again showed that they haven't the bottle to take tough decisions.
The referendum is not about making Europe work better or representing the views
of Europe's people but about building a European super-state in which Ireland
and other small countries are mere counties. I voted No before. Neither the
treaty nor its implications have changed and I will vote No again. Hendrick
Verwey Cobh, Co Cork No defence for Yes The government's Defence Bill 2009 is
designed to reassure the voters about Ireland's involvement with the European
Defence Agency (EDA), established to bolster the European armaments industry and
support the EU's military programme.

Many voters in Lisbon One were justifiably concerned about this agency and about
treaty provisions for all member-states progressively to "improve their military
capabilities". This Defence Bill is an attempt to win over voters to the Yes
side by requiring prior Dail and government approval for Irish participation in
particular armaments programmes.

The bill says weapons systems and capabilities that will enhance "UN-mandated
missions engaged in peace keeping, conflict prevention or the strengthening of
international security" will meet government approval. But since nearly every
weapons system could fall into these categories, it now appears to be open
season for Ireland's producers of weapons and weapons' components. And how will
the cabinet determine whether the trigger in any weapons system will only be
pulled by a UN-mandated soldier? This makes a nonsense of the constitutional
amendment inserted within the Nice treaty which prevents any Irish involvement
in an EU common defence without a referendum. Under the guise of enhancing
scrutiny of Lisbon's military provisions, the Defence Bill is writing a blank
cheque for Ireland's full military participation in the EU. We must vote No to
Lisbon to halt this militarisation. Carol Fox Dun Laoghaire, Co Dublin A way-out
vote I will be voting Yes to Lisbon, but I have a premonition that it is going
to be defeated. There is so much anger out there that people are going to cut
off their noses to spite their faces.

They'll see it as the only way to rid the country of the appalling Brian Cowen
and his government of incompetents. Because if Lisbon is lost, there will be a
general election, and Fianna Fail will get thrashed, losing up to 50 seats. A
result like that will be Waterloo for the party of corruption.

If it takes a No vote to achieve this, so be it. With the Catholic church on the
ropes, and Fianna Fail out of office for good, hopefully, things can only
improve. It was those terrible twins that kept this country on its knees, and
socially backward, for so long. Paddy O'Brien Balbriggan, Co Dublin Not a
leading question Some of those campaigning for a No vote claim that a new
powerful president of Europe will be created. Not at all. The proposal is simply
to replace the rotation system for the chairing of the European Council (the
meetings of prime ministers of the member states).

Currently, prime ministers take it in turn to chair for six months at a time. It
is proposed instead that they choose someone for a 30-month period, but with no
autonomous decision-making power. Marit Djonne, Rathmines, Dublin 6 Best
disregards If the referendum yields a Yes vote, will the government assure us
that they will follow their established pattern of ignoring the democratic wish
of the people, and give us another vote on the matter next year? Pat Doncaster
Schull, Co Cork

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ganley, leading the No campaign, believes the Lisbon treaty will
destroy Irish jobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 20, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

DO I HEAR A YES?;
Pat Cox finds the Lisbon going tougher than expected, writes Sarah McInerney

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1863 words


Geraldine McInerney marched with grim determination through Shannon's Skycourt
shopping centre. She had one man in her sights: Pat Cox, the former president of
the European parliament who was on a mission to Munster to urge people to vote
for the Lisbon treaty.

Skidding to a stop, she did not wait for him to finish his pro-treaty pitch to
two perplexed-looking shoppers.

"So you're allowed to park on double yellow lines, but nobody else is?" she
asked menacingly.

Cox blinked uncomprehendingly at her and said nothing.

"Those big 'Vote Yes' vans you have," continued McInerney, pointing accusingly
to the glass doors of the centre, where two people-carriers glistened in the
sunshine. "They're parked on the double yellow lines outside.Just so you can
come in here telling people to vote Yes."

Wagging her finger within inches of Cox's nose, her voice dropped to a whisper.
"I was a friend of your mother's."

Cox finally recovered. Placing two calming hands on her shoulders, he asked
McInerney if she intended to vote in the treaty. "I do," she said defiantly.

"And I'll be saying the same thing I said the last time: No."

Cox nodded. "That makes sense," he said, before politely excusing himself and
moving away towards an elderly man emerging from the ¤2 shop.

McInerney stared after him in disgust. "It's a disgrace," she said. "The French
have voted No. The Dutch have voted No. And we've voted No, but they're asking
us again. It won't get through, we won't let it."

It was one of many negative responses encountered by Cox and his team of Ireland
for Europe volunteers during their canvassing of Munster last week. Yet,
according to the campaign team, the overall response was positive. That
confidence is in line with the latest Millward Brown IMS poll, which shows that
53% of people are planning to vote in favour of the Lisbon treaty, with 26%
against it.

Declan Ganley, the Libertas founder, breathed new life into the fading No
campaign last week with a surprise return to the fray. But with just 12 days to
polling day, does the charismatic businessman, or any of the other motley group
of No campaigners, have a sufficiently large rabbit to pull out of the hat to
swing the vote in their favour? Or has the No side's battle already been lost?
Maybe not yet, if the people of Munster are any indication.

DISTRUST of Brian Cowen, fear of the Turks, confusion about what it all means:
more than half of the people who spoke to Cox during his tour of Skycourt last
week voiced a range of fears, questions and objections.

"What I can't understand is why all the political parties want it and why
they're all agreeing all of a sudden," said one man, peering at Cox.

Dressed in a streamlined pin-stripped suit and shiny black shoes and sporting a
coiffed hair-style, Cox looked every inch the smooth-talking politician. "We're
not a political party, and we're not representing any political views," he said,
with an ease that spoke of repeated practice. "We're just a group of people who
believe the treaty is good for the country."

Upstairs in the food court, not even a total disassociation with politics could
convince Gerry McInerney to move to the Yes side. Sitting in an electric
wheelchair with the licence plate 'Gerry1' pinned to the front, McInerney
genially reproached Cox for his request for a Yes vote.

"We're really being badly slaughtered," he said, waving a copy of The Clare
Courier in the air. "Look at this article. A cut in disability funding. The
government is scraping the bottom of the barrel to get money, while the people
at the top have millions. I'll be voting all right, and I'll be voting No."

Cox listened calmly. "There will be another chance to have your say against the
government," he said. "Just remember, this is about Europe, which has been a
very positive force in this country."

It is this type of anger that Ganley will try to tap into when Libertas rolls
out a billboard and poster campaign this week. The slogans will target Cowen and
his government, claiming that the only job that the Lisbon treaty will save will
be that of the taoiseach.

"I think their campaign is quite cynical to be honest," said Naoise Nunn, a
political consultant who was the director of Libertas during the last referendum
campaign, before switching to the Yes camp last April. "It's going to be one of
the biggest threats to the Yes side. Libertas are trying to capitalise on the
public anger."

But will it be too little, too late? After the media flurry that greeted its
unexpected resurrection last weekend, there was surprisingly little activity in
the Libertas camp last week. John McGuirk, the party spokesman, said much of the
time had been spent "activating" the 3,000-strong team of volunteers who had
canvassed for Libertas during the European elections last June.

"We've had a phenomenal response so far, at least twothirds of that number want
to get involved with this campaign," he said. "We'll be really hitting the
ground next week."

This last-minute approach is deliberate, according to Ganley in an interview
with The Times. "We can't fight a conventional ground war against these people
because we will lose. So this was not by accident to wait [until] the day we
did," he said.

"It's like that scene in Braveheart, with the lads with the sharpened staves and
the English heavy cavalry charging.

And I was basically saying 'wait, wait, wait' and then at the last minute you
pull up the big 12-foot long, sharpened staves and you impale the b****** on
their own argument."

It is a risky gamble, and not one taken by any of the other No groups. "We've
been campaigning for months because we want to get the message across," said Joe
Higgins, the Socialist MEP, throwing his eyes towards the ceiling when Ganley's
tactics are explained to him.

Daithí Mac an Mháistír, a spokesman for Eirigi, said: "Ganley's return has
helped the No side get some media coverage, which is something." This was
reflected in an analysis of coverage of the treaty carried out by TNS
Mediamarket, a research company, which found that Ganley's return attracted 24
articles in the national media.

"They made a big splash, but I think the media impact is gone now," said Nunn.

"Last time, Libertas kicked off in December, months before the Yes side even
started thinking about the treaty. This time, it's Ganley who is on the back
foot. Also, I don't think he has anything like the broad appeal that he had last
time."

Certainly in Co Clare, Ganley's name was not mentioned by people who pressed Cox
for information. Instead, it was the message from Coir, a No party, about the
minimum wage, that has penetrated the public consciousness. "If we pass the
treaty does it not mean that workers can come in from abroad and be paid less?"
asked Martin McCormack.

It was the first time of the day that Cox was provoked into gentle animation.
"Some of the stuff that has come out on this has been pretty gross," he said,
before launching into a detailed explanation on why the Irish minimum wage
cannot be changed by Lisbon.

McCormack listened intently, occasionally smoothing his green tie over his white
An Post shirt. "Okay," he said. "I'm still undecided, to be honest. What about
Turkey joining the EU? Will that not have a big impact on our jobs? Will that
bring down the wages?" The impact of Coir's minimum-wage slogan has filtered
through to the Referendum Commission, which has been carefully monitoring the
campaign.

"It has emerged as a significant issue for voters," said Justice Frank Clarke,
chairman of the commission. "We haven't dealt with it in our information booklet
because it wasn't around last time. We have tried to clarify that there is
nothing in Lisbon that gives [this] power to the EU, but it still seems to be
out there."

The minimum wage and employment issues have been seized upon by other No groups,
which have recognised that these topics are resonating with a recession-scarred
public.

On Friday afternoon, the British-based UKIP announced it would be distributing
an eight-page booklet to every home in Ireland containing claims that tens of
thousands of Irish workers will have their wages cut because of Lisbon, and that
75m Turks will get free movement within the EU if the treaty is passed.

The People's Movement has unveiled posters depicting a helpless worker splayed
under a huge judge's gavel, about to be crushed.

All of this directly conflicts with one of the main campaigning platforms of the
Yes side: that the treaty will lead to increased employment.

The obvious contradiction has led to a flurry of calls to the Referendum
Commission asking for clarification. In a response that many voters are likely
to find unsatisfactory, Clarke said that the treaty does not make any provisions
at all in relation to jobs.

"Frank Clarke the citizen has his view on whether the treaty will create jobs,
but the Referendum Commission doesn't," he said. "It's a political and economic
judgment that people must make for themselves."

So voters are left at the mercy of whichever politician or campaigner sounds
most convincing on the issue.

And the No side has proven itself to be convincing.

In Shannon, Sean Hehir listens thoughtfully to the pitch from an Ireland for
Europe campaigner who insists that Lisbon will bring jobs to the country.

"I didn't vote last time because I didn't understand it," he said, after the
volunteer walks away. "But that lad there is saying that it will bring jobs for
young people. If he's genuine, I'd vote for it. But is he genuine? "Next thing
I'll hear on the radio that it will be bad for jobs. You just don't know who to
believe. I want to make the right decision, but it's just so confusing."

Letters, page 16

Sparks fly as Barroso plugs the treaty

THE European commission president José Manuel Barroso provoked a mixed reaction
during his visit to Ireland yesterday.

At a meeting of the Oireachtas committee on European affairs at Shannon airport
yesterday morning, Barroso dismissed many of the key campaign points of the No
side. He said suggestions that the Lisbon treaty will impose a minimum wage in
Ireland are "absurd lies", and insisted that it would not affect Ireland's
sovereignty over taxation, abortion and euthanasia.

Barroso also warned that a No vote would damage the Irish economy and threaten
jobs and investment. He claimed the only way for Ireland to ensure it keeps a
commissioner is to vote Yes.

He announced a ¤14.8m EU grant to help more than 2,000 unemployed Dell workers
to find jobs.

Anti-Lisbon groups were unimpressed. Patricia McKenna of the People's Movement
accused Barroso of "gross and unlawful interference" in the Irish referendum
debate.

Declan Ganley, the Libertas leader, called Barroso a coward for refusing to
engage in a debate. "How can we have confidence in [him] to fix our economic
problems if he's unable to take on even the challenge of debating his beloved
Lisbon treaty?" Ganley said. He also criticised Lech Walesa, the former Polish
president, for an interview to the Polish media in which he supported tax
harmonisation.;Walesa was in Ireland last week promoting the Lisbon campaign at
the invitation of Fine Gael.

IT'S A DISGRACE: '' WE'VE ALREADY VOTED NO, BUT THEY'RE ASKING US AGAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Barroso says a No vote would threaten Irish economy
Cox and his Ireland for Europe canvassers are taking to the streets to persuade
people fo vote in favour of the Lisbon treaty this time around. 'Europe has been
a very positive force in this country,' he says
VINCENT KESSLER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 20, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cabinet reshuffle that would score a few own goals;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 160 words


There's one place in the country that's guaranteed to be getting letters (and
those important leaflets about double glazing and hearing aids) during the
postal strikes. It is Bournemouth's Elstead hotel, owned by the Communication
Workers Union.

"We offer great package deals to all Masonic lodges," boasts its website,
"including Masonic ladies festival weekends."

All very tempting, I'm sure you'll agree. But perhaps best to book online rather
than by post. Just in case.

Last week I might have given you the misleading impression that UKIP MEP Marta
Andreasen had resigned from the party. The words "Marta resigned from the party"
were possibly what did the trick. I should have said she resigned as party
treasurer.

News of 6ft 4in Nikki Sinclaire's leadership bid was spot on, however, although
reaction has been mixed. A UKIP supporter reveals: "There was a groan at the
coffee morning in Chichester when we heard that Nikki had put her name up for
leader."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 20, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cabinet reshuffle that would score a few own goals;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 142 words


Annie McGuire, the sports presenter on BBC Scotland, has had a lively response
to her internet appeal to fans to pick a fantasy Scottish football cabinet.
Nominations so far include Chick Young as minister for cheese, Frank McAvennie
as women's minister, Rangers' Davie Weir, 39, for pensions minister and Kenny
Miller for (missed) chancellor.

Last week, I might have given you the misleading impression that the Ukip MEP
Marta Andreasen had resigned from the party. The words "Marta resigned from the
party" were possibly what did the trick. I should have said that she resigned as
party treasurer.

News of 6ft 4in Nikki Sinclaire's leadership bid was spot-on, however, although
reaction to this news has been mixed.

A Ukip supporter reveals: "There was a groan at the coffee morning in Chichester
when we heard that Nikki had put her name up for leader."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 20, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Years to f ill jobs at EU

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 241  words


A EURO watchdog has condemned Brussels bureaucracy after finding that it takes
an average of 16 months to fill each EU job.

Many candidates give up halfway through the tortuous process, drawn out by
needless language tests, leaving some posts vacant for years on end.

A report by the European Court of Auditors throws light on why billions of
pounds of British taxpayers' money is being drained away by the unwieldy
bureaucracy in Brussels every year. The auditors have ordered immediate reforms.

Under the system, recruitment for all official posts, including translators,
accountants and even builders, is managed by the European Personnel Selection
Office.

Vacancies are advertised in the Official Journal of the EU, before shortlisted
candidates are subjected to a series of written and oral tests spanning several
months. In some cases, recruitment can take up to two years, the auditors found.

But the Sunday Express has discovered that the auditors themselves are equally
guilty.

In April last year, they advertised for 160 trainee accountants on a tax-free
salary of GBP 46,000. No professional experience was required and 11,000
hopefuls applied. The posts were only filled in August, 16 months after the jobs
were advertised.

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said: "It takes months to get someone appointed and it's
virtually impossible to get rid of them if they're useless. It's yet another
snapshot of what an unwieldy and costly bureaucracy Brussels is."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 20, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Green Cameron must show True Blue colours;
LEADER

BYLINE: ByNeil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 848  words


TO WIN the next election, David Cameron must climb the political equivalent of
Mount Everest. He needs a bigger swing against Labour than ever before. Gordon
Brown is helping, of course, but the latest YouGov poll puts the Tories on only
40 per cent.

True, that is 13 per cent ahead of Labour but the Tories led by 25 to 30 per
cent in the depths of the Wilson and Callaghan governments' unpopularity in the
Sixties and Seventies. Even so, those leads shrank towards an election, with
both Heath and Thatcher winning by relatively narrow margins. The Tories won 77
seats from Labour in 1970 and 63 in 1979. By contrast, Cameron needs to win 117
for a bare Commons majority.

This is a tough call, with almost no seats to be won in Scotland and Wales and
the electoral system heavily weighted against him in England. In 2005 the Tories
actually polled more votes than Labour but got 92 fewer seats. In the North
today, Labour still leads the Tories by 35 per cent to 33 per cent. In the
South, where Labour is an endangered species, the Lib Dems are the enemy but are
polling 18 per cent, slightly lower than the last election.

Given the epic incompetence and dishonesty of the shower masquerading as a
Government, why aren't the Tories further ahead? The public gives "Dave" top
marks for charm but people think there is little substance under the slick PR.
In the early days of Dave's leadership, spin-doctors presented him as the "heir
to Blair" and a party image change was promoted via policies like "hug a
hoodie".

As "brand decontamination" this was successful but millions of former Tory
supporters now vote Ukip or abstain and more than 50 per cent of voters say they
have no idea what the Tories stand for. Therein lies the problem. Why vote Tory?

CAMERON'S promise two weeks ago to cut the cost of Parliament by 10 per cent is
a timid start in the right direction. There are now 29,000 paid politicians and
"advisers" in the UK, costing us GBP 500million a year. A century ago we ran an
empire with a fraction of that number.

As Parliament's powers shrink, the number of politicians balloons. A 10 per cent
cull is far too modest.

Cameron needs to be much bolder: 10 per cent across the public sector would be
more like it. He should freeze public sector pay totals for the whole of the
next Parliament so that pay increases are funded by job losses through natural
wastage and higher productivity. He should produce a hit-list of Whitehall and
town hall non-jobs to be abolished - and then abolish them.

Despite the haemorrhage of private sector jobs, local councils have done nothing
to cut recruitment. The Guardian's ppointments pages still groan with adverts
for community cohesion officers, community space challenge dvisers, mass
participation workers and the like.

No, I have not invented any of these and they are the tip of the iceberg.

State pay is out of control, too. Suffolk County Council's chief executive gets
GBP 240,000 a year, GBP 50,000 more than the PM.

There are dozens of others. Not to mention the Quango Queen, Dame Suzi Leather.

She gets GBP 80,000 for a three-day week as chairman of the Charity Commission
and claims GBP 30,000 in expenses, including firstclass travel to London from
her home in Exeter. Adding insult to injury the commission also picks up the GBP
10,000 tax bill she should pay on these benefits in kind.

Why should the taxpayer cover these costs at all? If this New Labour diva
chooses to live in Exeter and work in London, she should pay her own fares. She
can afford it. She also gets GBP 11,000 a year on the board of Consumer Focus
and yet more of our cash from another quango, the UK Accreditation Service.

The public sector carries on burning our money like a Californian brushfire.
Take the police. Bureaucratic box-ticking distracts them from fighting crime:
last year 19 forces cut the number of officers on the streets. Yet GBP 71million
was found for a new quango, the National Police Improvement Service, which
created 340 new desk jobs.

INCREDIBLY, the State spends GBP 400million a year on advertising:

GBP 15million on Condom Awareness, GBP 2million on Citizens' Juries, GBP
12million on Smoke Free adverts. In my mail I regularly get my Conservative
council's propa anda sheet lauding its own achievements. With my council tax now
GBP 2,900, it makes me livid. As for the taxpayer-funded, gold- plated pensions
enjoyed by millions of state employees, don't get me started. That's got to
stop, too.

On Tuesday, George Osborne promised a "credible commitment to cut spending and
get to grips with our record budget deficit". Fine words but where was the beef?
He gave not one concrete example of state squandering for the Tory axe. With an
election round the corner, he should have a list as long as his arm.

Committing to a mammoth programme of slashing the size and activities of the
State is a big vote-winner, with no shortage of targets for a true-blue Tory to
aim at.

The trouble is that, so far, David Cameron has been more concerned to be green
than blue. In cutting the State down to size, let's hope he doesn't prove to be
yellow.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOO TIMID: David Cameron should be much bolder in his bid to cut
expenditure

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 20, 2009

WILL IRELAND DO THE INDECENT THING?;
THE STATE OF;
EUROPE;
Fear of the future and dislike of politicians could swell the 'Yes' vote in next
month's referendum says, Ruth Dudley Edwards

BYLINE: Ruth Dudley Edwards

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1647  words


In the bleak Ireland of the early Sixties, the playwright Brendan Behan
suggested that the republic should be returned to the Queen with a note
apologising for the state successive independent governments had reduced it to.
Owing to the then profound anti-Britishness of the Irish public, few agreed, but
it is a sentiment one often hears expressed these days, although about Brussels
rather than London: "We've made such a mess of things, the EU couldn't do
worse.''

And therein lies the biggest problem for the "No'' campaign. When the first
referendum was held in June 2008, the Celtic Tiger was sick, but its condition
was not thought to be terminal. Still confident after years of prosperity,
voters were listening to concerns that Lisbon might, for instance, threaten
Ireland's traditional military neutrality, abolish its permanent commissioner,
impose abortion and strike at the incentives for foreign investment through the
introduction of tax harmonisation. Fifteen months on, the Tiger is dead and
arrogance and hubris have given way to fear.

Ireland will hold a new referendum on October 2, and early polls suggest most
Irish voters will back the Lisbon Treaty this time round. The treaty's aim is to
improve decision-making within the EU, although opponents believe it will
concentrate too much power in Brussels. For it to come into force, all 27 member
states must ratify it.

Since the first referendum, there has been a stream of revelations about
nest-feathering in high places; about the bankers, politicians, regulators and
megalomaniac property developers who have destroyed the economy; about
politicians' expenses that make our MPs look like ascetics; and about waste on a
breathtaking scale. The terrified electorate views most of its politicians as
corrupt and the country is reverting to its traditional stance of praying for
salvation from the Continent.

It was inevitable that a small island on the extreme west of Europe has been,
since the Middle Ages, a pawn in bigger boys' wars. From the Irish perspective,
her neighbours were usurpers and land-grabbers. To the English, Ireland was a
backdoor through which European enemies might force their way, so it was
essential to bring its inhabitants to heel and brutally discourage foreign
incursions.

If early clashes between the neighbours were essentially about turf, the English
Reformation and subsequent attempts to impose Protestantism on the Irish people
added religious sectarianism to the mix, exacerbated in the early 17th century
by the arrival of Anglican and Scots Presbyterian planters in the north of the
island.

The Irish people, prone to romanticism and self-delusion, encouraged continental
powers to intervene militarily and - despite evidence to the contrary -
perceived them as idealistic liberators. During the reign of Elizabeth I, a
religious crusade of Italian and Spanish troops backed Irish rebellions in the
hope of speeding the restoration of a Catholic monarchy in England. Louis XIV
helped the Catholic James II's Irish campaign against his son-in-law and
successor, William of Orange. It was French designs on England rather than
notions of universal brotherhood that had them dispatch armies to Ireland in
1796 and 1798 in support of the republicans. Like all continental forays, this
was unsuccessful. Although from the 19th century the focus changed to
Irish-America, revolutionaries sought German help during both world wars: in
1940, the IRA chief of staff died on a

U-boat.

It was the papacy by now that was the ordinary Irish Catholic's link with
Europe. "A bad day today,'' observed a friend in the early Seventies to his Cork
newsagent. "Yes, but I believe it's sunny in Rome,'' she replied. Independent
Ireland was an insular, protectionist and repressive theocracy, haemorrhaging
its young and economically dependent on Britain as its main export market.
Deliverance came from the EEC, lukewarm though it was about taking on an
impoverished, socially backward island which had been neutral in the war.
Ireland would demonstrate its pro-Europe DNA with an 83 per cent "Yes'' vote in
the 1972 referendum on membership: Denmark's was 63 per cent.

The republic fell in love with the sugar-daddy it joined in 1973 and was
lavished with financial benefits, especially for agriculture, infrastructure,
trade and industry:construction sites were proudly awash with blue and gold EU
flags proclaiming the source of the funding. There was a huge party on the
Dublin streets in January 1999 when the country joined the euro.

It was not just financial liberation: Ireland was dragged out of entrenched and
highly discriminatory social conservatism. It was, for instance, because of the
EU that the ban on married women working in the public service was raised, and,
though it took until 1993, it was the European Court of Human Rights that forced
the legalisation of homosexuality. With the simultaneous meltdown of the Irish
Roman Catholic church over revelations of child abuse, the new mores became
widely acceptable. And the appearance of Ireland was transformed by immigrants
from Eastern Europe.

Even more important, membership of the EU had given the country enormous
self-assurance. The Irish diplomatic service punched way above its weight, as
did most politicians dispatched to Europe: skilled in milking resources for
constituency advantage, they proved just as effective at extracting money from
EU budgets for the voters back home.

Coupled with the emergence in the early Nineties of a phenomenal growth rate,
Ireland was now the EU's favourite child. In the Commission, Ireland and Britain
were equal partners, so the obsession with the wickedness of the old enemy began
to dissolve, and slowly the British and Irish governments began to develop
levels of trust that would in time give birth to the Good Friday Agreement.

Yet there were still enormous cultural differences. In the Nineties, at an
Anglo-Irish conference exploring attitudes to the EU, the English spoke of
building up the institutions soberly and brick-by-brick, while the Irish were
preoccupied with the vision thing, with allusions to the need to recreate the
Holy Roman Empire. Although shivering in the Atlantic, the republic behaves like
a Mediterranean country: along with high-sounding rhetoric (a "No'' vote would
represent a "spiritual withdrawal'' from Europe, the Minister for Finance said
recently) comes the solid materialism of the peasant and a disinclination to
follow EU rules that don't suit. "Here's a metaphor for the EU,'' said an Irish
friend last weekend. "We have a motorway system which it has largely funded, we
have signed up to its regulations about the need for regular rest stops, yet
there is nowhere on the network where you can pull in and rest, eat or even get
petrol.''

There is little rational discussion on Lisbon going on now, not least because
the "No'' groups are mainly republicans, the far-Left and Right-wing Catholics,
many of whom are making claims about the EU's wicked plans that are too crazy to
be taken seriously. A poster reading "euro1.84 minimum wage after Lisbon?'' - a
reduction of 6.81 euros from the present level - is arresting, but the message
unconvincing. Ukip has made things worse with leaflets which, inter alia, warn
that Turkey's accession would bring about mass Muslim migration, and have
enabled the "Yes'' side to dismiss the party as racist. Nigel Farage, who has
thrown himself into the campaign, exemplifies the kind of Englishman the Irish
particularly like to hate. Much more attractive to the Irish psyche is the Nobel
Laureate Seamus Heaney proclaiming that Europe is "more than a bureaucracy, it's
an ideal''.

For the most part, the "Yes'' side - backed by all the establishment parties,
the vast majority of businesses, unions and most of the media -implies that
"No'' voters are lunatics bent on destroying the country. The subliminal message
is that Ireland should keep its head down and humbly hold out the begging bowl
to its Continental betters. Otherwise terrible punishments will follow. Last
week, The Irish Times carried an interview with European Commissioner José
Manuel Barroso in which he predicted that a "No'' vote could lose Ireland its
commissioner, create uncertainly about its  place in Europe, threaten jobs and
investment and damage the economy.

Charlie McCreevy, Ireland's commissioner, recently said cheerily that 95 per
cent of EU member countries would vote against Lisbon if they had the chance.
Some serious voices, like the multi-millionaire businessman Declan Ganley, of
Libertas, who fronted the last "No'' campaign and is pro-EU but anti-Lisbon, are
trying to force a debate about this democratic deficit as well as about the
inevitable loss of sovereignty and accountability that the treaty will bring.

"There's a group-think which emanates from Dublin that is utterly unquestioning
of any diktat that comes from Brussels,'' he says, noting ruefully that no major
politicians will debate with him. His message is that it is Ireland's duty to
save the whole EU from a bad treaty, but the scared public are in no mood to
think beyond immediate national interest and its attention anyway is focused on
whether the proposed National Asset Management Agency (Nama) will bail out the
banks or lead to national bankruptcy.

That moral giant and Europhobe Kevin Myers explained last week why - despite his
admiration for Ganley - the "No'' campaign's scaremongering had caused him to
change sides: Ireland was populated by "inept and unrepentant thieves'' and he
would rather be governed by "a parcel of fork-tongued Euro-reptiles'' than by
the nauseating, corrupt, useless Irish governing class. Truly, if they win the
"Yes'' vote, Irish politicians can take the credit.

TOMORROW IN THE DAILY TELEGRAPH <!-- E00D(UNKNOWN) -->

Europe and the world: why is the EU's foreign and defence policy so feeble?

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 19, 2009 Saturday

Taxpayers' pounds 280m bill for EU showcase;
'Landmark' home for growing EU empire and its new president

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 415  words


A BUILDING that will cost taxpayers  pounds 280 million is to be constructed in
Brussels to showcase the European Union's growing global ambitions and house the
office of a new president.

The cost of the environmentally friendly building, centred on an

"urn-shaped'' meeting room, has risen by  pounds 66.5 million since planning
began.

The Résidence Palace is named after the existing Art Deco building it will
incorporate.

The summit venue, to be completed by 2013, will have an "umbrella'' of solar
panels and rainwater recycling facilities.

"The new façade surrounding the atrium and the urn-shaped meeting room area
housed within it will together form an urban 'lantern' which will be visible as
a European landmark in the city,'' states a project document.

Over the past 14 years, European leaders, ministers and diplomats have met in
the Justus Lipsius building which is regarded as too drab and cramped to
represent a body that has grown from 15 member states to 27.

The complex will also house the offices of a new EU president - expected by many
to be Tony Blair - "foreign minister'' and, possibly, the European diplomatic
service created under the Lisbon Treaty, if it is ratified by an Irish
referendum next month.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said the new building
reminded him of the grandiose imperial ambitions of Land of Hope and Glory.

"It is all a bit, 'Wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set; God, who made
thee mighty, make thee mightier yet','' he said.

"The only thing that will stop the EU achieving its global ambitions is for
British voters to get a referendum.''

With almost 27,000 sq metres of floor space, the edifice is the latest
development in a burgeoning Euro-quarter in Brussels. The building will not
quite rival the scale of the European Commission's Berlaymont building, directly
opposite. It has 29,000 sq metres of floor space.

EU buildings occupy 1.9 million sq metres of office space in Brussels. More than
half of that is taken up by the commission, which spent  pounds 185 million on
its offices in 2008.

Built in the 1920s, the existing Résidence Palace houses apartments for
officials, commercial offices, a private theatre, swimming pool and restaurants.
It was requisitioned in 1940 as the headquarters of the German army during the
Nazi occupation of Belgium.

After the war, the building was sold to the Belgian state and housed government
departments until they were pushed out by the build up of the EU institutions.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 19, 2009 Saturday

In pursuit of the greatest happiness

BYLINE: Tim Worstallguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1123 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Worstall: GDP is not the be-all and end-all of our existence; it talks of
value added to economies but has little to say about anything else

FULL TEXT

Richard Layard and  (one a Nobel Laureate, the other one of those who tried to
jam some economic understanding into my brain) rightly tell us that gross
domestic product isn't in fact the be-all and end-all of how we should be
measuring life, the economy and everything. They also, again correctly, point to
various alternative ways in which we might measure, thus set as our target,
things which are more important than merely the value added in an economy.

What is always interesting is to take such suggestions and follow them to see
where they lead: so let's do exactly that with the proposal from the professor
at the old alma mater, my .

So I propose a campaign for the Principle of the Greatest Happiness. This says I
should aim to produce the most happiness I can in the world and, above all, the
least misery. And my rulers should do the same.

Sounds like a plan, so, using only the professor's own work, where will this
lead? Specifically, where will this lead us if we try to design a tax system
which accords with this principle (that's the "rulers should do the same" bit)?

Vital clues can be found in his book Happiness, something which if you haven't
read you probably ought to. There are two major points made about the taxation
of incomes in it and we'll add just one commonplace observation from the world
around us to reach what we must assume will be the taxation system that will
produce the maximal amount of happiness: the top fluffy kitten count, if you
will.

The first point is that happiness does indeed rise with income - but only to a
certain point. That point varies a little, dependent on where you are and with
exchange rates and so on, but a reasonable estimate is about £15,000 a year.
Less than that and earning more money makes you happier simply because you're
earning more money. More than that and you might be happier or not, but it's not
the extra money that's making you so.

Excellent. So the first and most obvious principle of our high kitten-cuteness
tax system is going to be that we're not going to tax incomes below £15,000.
This would clearly make people less happy, as it would take them below that
number where higher incomes make them happier.

The second point is a little more complex. The contention is that when we earn
more than £15,000 we create a kind of pollution. It's never quite really nailed
down: one way of describing it would be jealousy, the green-eyed god, over the
fact that others have more than we do. Layard's description is more gentle, in
that others having more impels us to emulate them; we try to keep up with the
Joneses. In doing so we strive for higher incomes, despite the way that these
will make us no happier, at the expense of the many other things that will make
us happier - time with family, with friends and so on.

Thus those earning more than £15,000 are imposing an externality of unhappiness
on those around them: and we all know what happens to such negative
externalities in welfare economics. We tax them! This is exactly the same
economic argument behind carbon taxes, the congestion charge and air passenger
duty. The polluter must pay the social cost of their pollution. Turning the
argument around the other way, that positive externalities should be subsidised
is exactly the economic argument used for tax contributions to basic science and
such things as universal primary schooling. There's nothing odd or strange about
the economics here, only the aspect of life to which it is being applied.

Layard's estimate is that the unhappiness caused by those on higher than £15,000
incomes is some 30% of the amount of those higher incomes. Someone on £1,015,000
a year is causing £300,000 of unhappiness elsewhere while someone on £45,000 is
causing £10,000s' worth (umm, OK, I'm using one third not 30%, but you get the
picture). We should thus tax the two, respectively, £300,000 and £10,000 for the
externality of the non-fluffy kitten time they are imposing on those around
them.

Our third point is simply the commonplace that people do not like to pay taxes.
Yes, yes, I know, there are endless screeds here at Comment is free insisting
that no, really, offering up the sweat of our brow to the state is such a
pleasurable experience that we'd all do it willingly, without the compulsion of
law. Actually, this seems not to be the case. Last time I got  (for the tax year
2005), it turned out that only five people across the entire nation had
voluntarily paid more than was their legally demanded due - and four of those
were dead. So if we adopt the entirely uncontroversial economic idea of revealed
preferences (don't look at what people say but what they do) we can be sure that
for the vast majority of the population taxes are not something paid for the joy
of them. They are, in fact, something which make us unhappy.

This now gives us the details which we need to build our tax structure for
optimal happiness. We can and should tax those who cause unhappiness in others
by the value of the unhappiness they create through their higher incomes. We
should not tax more than this for we will be creating unhappiness by doing so.
Finally, we should not be taxing incomes below £15,000 a year because taking
money below that sum will again increase unhappiness.

So our tax system with the highest fluffy-kitten count, the one that will
"produce the most happiness" as our rulers should strive to do, just as we
ourselves should, is a flat-tax system of 30% with a high personal allowance of
£15,000 a year.

While this is, of course, very different from our current tax system, it is
still progressive (yes, it is: work out the maths for yourselves - as incomes
rise so do the portions of those incomes paid in tax) and it ticks all the boxes
that will lead to maximal happiness.

In the UK, the US and Germany, happiness has been stagnating for decades. A
civilisation based on the Greatest Happiness Principle would be a great
improvement. Yes, indeed it will, as long as we actually accept the implications
of that Great Happiness Principle as laid out for us by one of the great
researchers into that principle, Richard Layard himself.

The only conundrum left is that there are only two organisations that I know of
(that I am a member of both of them is entirely coincidence) which actually have
as suggested policy anything close to this top cute-kitten system: Ukip and the
Adam Smith Institute. But then the reason that I am a member of both is because
they are both well ahead of the progressive crowd, in so many important ways.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 19, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Lech's vote Yes on Lisbon Treaty

BYLINE: MYLES McENTEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words


FORMER Solidarity leader Lech Walesa makes a stand for the Yes to Lisbon
campaign in Dublin yesterday.

The ex-Polish president was invited to the country by Fine Gael leader Enda
Kenny who also supports the new treaty.

Mr Walesa also had talks with Dublin Archbishop Diarmuid Martin.

Mr Kenny hailed the union boss as "a legendary leader of the pro-democracy
movement".

"He is also a powerful symbol of the core principles that underpin the European
idea - those of peace and democracy."

Meanwhile, United Kingdom Independence Party leader Nigel Farage was in the
capital carrying 1.5 million leaflets to be distributed across the country. But
the anti-Lisbon crusader was told to go home by Libertas leader Declan Ganley.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Talks ... Kenny, Walesa & Martin yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 19, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'No' campaigners wary of helping hand from UKIP

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 585 words


"This is the second Battle of the Boyne," said an old lady from Donegal, her
point almost drowned out by a noisy demonstration against the entry of the UK
Independence Party into Ireland's referendum on the Lisbon treaty in less than
two weeks' time.

In Dublin, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, faced a chorus of voices claiming he
was a racist, a British interferer, and in the words of Dick Roche, the Irish
Europe Minister, "from the same gene pool as neo-fascists".

Mr Roche is the top strategist in his Government's attempts to overturn last
year's rejection by 54 per cent of the Lisbon treaty.

But Mr Farage has become something of an issue in his own right, prompting other
figures on the "no" side of the argument to wish that he would stay away from
Ireland.

The UKIP leader insisted he was in Dublin in his capacity as leader of the
Europe of Freedom and Democracy group in the European Parliament, which is
sending out a leaflet entitled The Truth about the Treaty to every household in
Ireland.

It portrays the treaty as a bulldozer and has already drawn criticism for
including a picture of a turkey with a medal around its neck which says "free
movement for 75 million people".

In fact the group, which comprises 32 MEPS, including UKIP's 13, was so
unrepentant that it had intended to bring a live turkey to its press conference
and was thwarted only because there were none available.

Mr Farage admitted he could not "follow the plot" of the accusation that using a
turkey to represent the nation of Turkey was offensive. "It's just
light-hearted," he said.

He said he was astonished by "the rapid descent into the gutter of Ireland's
political classes" in portraying him as an extremist.

Micheál Martin, the Irish Foreign Minister, made a ferocious attack on the
leaflet, calling it "quite the nastiest, most deceptive piece of literature ever
distributed in an Irish referendum". The Irish Times also weighed in, claiming
in its lead editorial, "A malign influence from Britain", that the most
prominent intervention in the Irish referendum "comes from the hard Eurosceptic
and Europhobic wings of British conservatism who want to weaken the EU
radically".

Failing to resist the punning opportunity to describe the leaflet's contents as
"a farrago of false claims and legal half-truths", the newspaper said it was
part of "a wider pattern of British influence on Ireland's Lisbon debate".

Mr Farage nimbly steered clear of the "spontaneous" demonstration taking place
outside the hotel where he was speaking.

Sharon Waters, a spokesperson for Generation Yes, said that the protest was
simply a gathering of private individuals who arrived to make their feelings
known.

Ms Waters said there was no place in an Irish referendum campaign for
politicians from outside Ireland.

But she admitted there had been no protest against Lech Walesa, the former
President of Poland, who was also in Dublin to campaign for a "yes" vote. Nor
would there be protests against José Manuel Barroso, the newly re-elected
European Commission President, when he arrives in Ireland, also to campaign for
a "yes" vote.

No means no. Maybe ...

Three other countries have yet to ratify the Lisbon reform treaty: Germany,
Poland and the Czech Republic

Last week the German Upper House of Parliament backed legislative changes paving
the way for the reforms to be passed

The Eurosceptic presidents in Poland and the Czech Republic, Lech Kaczynski and
Václav Klaus, are waiting for a "yes" in Ireland before they give their approval

Source: Reuters

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 18, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

INDEPENDENT CANDIDATES WOULD CREATE THE WORST OF ALL WORLDS;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: LEADER; 13

LENGTH: 308  words


SOME dim would-be Wat Tyler has proposed that 50 doctors should stand as
independent candidates in the next election as a sort of revenge for the
expenses-scalping exposed in the House of Commons and covering the last four
years.

Why doctors? Why not accountants, solicitors or dentists? No idea. Why dim?
Because whatever the motive 50 doctors would only split one vote - the
Conservative one, putting Labour back into office and their embezzling was far
worse than the Tories.

The way the polls are still running, there are only two ways David Cameron can
lose in May and it may need both ways. One is for Labour's backbenchers to
rediscover their testicles, depose Gordon Brown, the most guaranteed guillotine
candidate since Louis XVI, and get a human being into the leadership slot.

The other is for the Tory vote to be split while the Labour and Lib-Dem votes
stay more or less intact.

Labour voters rarely switch from a lifetime of voting Labour straight to the
Conservatives. With Gordon Brown still in Downing Street millions will, as
recently in Norwich North, simply stay at home.

But with a new face at the helm they might not do that. They might return. In
the first-past-the-post system which we have, the worst thing that can happen to
your vote is that it splits three or four ways, letting one of the others in by
default. For the Tories the major danger is UKIP, which targets Tories 80 per
cent versus 20 per cent non-Tories.

After that come the let's-have-a-go independents.

Like UKIP they haven't a hope of a seat but could wreck the Tories enough to put
a Lib-Lab coalition into office. In which case adios Blighty.

Like them or not (and there are huge reservations) next May it is only a
Conservative government which would have a cat in hell's chance of restoring our
ill-treated homeland the way Margaret Thatcher did 30 years ago.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Barroso wins second EU term despite tarnished reputation

BYLINE: Vanessa Mock IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 635 words


He has been accused of being weak, mediocre and uninspiring but the EU's most
high-profile figure yesterday managed to silence a chorus of criticism to clinch
a second term as president of the European Commission.

Jose Manuel Barroso was forced to fight tooth and nail for a second five-year
term at the helm of the EU's executive, owing his comfortable victory in part to
the absence of a challenger. In an uncomfortable compromise, he was also forced
to woo Eurosceptics and far-right politicians in the continent's parliament to
make up the numbers, after the Socialists, the second-largest party, refused to
endorse him.

Although his victory was never seriously in doubt, the former Portuguese premier
was visibly relieved as results showed a comfortable majority, and many Euro MPs
in the Strasbourg chamber rose to their feet. There were 382 votes in favour to
219 against, while 117 politicians abstained.

But Mr Barroso will not be allowed to forget that he won fewer votes than five
years ago and he is likely to struggle to recover his reputation. He was roundly
criticised for vanishing into near-obscurity during the global financial crisis,
when the French President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose country had the rotating
presidency, forcefully took the reins to steer the EU through the turmoil.

And Eurosceptics such as the UK Independence Party have blasted him for pushing
the Lisbon Treaty to a second referendum after the Irish voted it down during
the first round.

The Socialists abstained from yesterday's vote, accusing Mr Barroso of not doing
enough to clamp down on liberal, free-market policies they blame for fuelling
the financial crisis.

Martin Schulz, head of the Socialist and Democrats parliamentary grouping,
warned that the re-elected Mr Barroso would be the "weakest Commission president
in history" and have "many sleepless nights ahead of him".

One of the first headaches is likely to be the 2 October referendum in Ireland,
which could totally scupper the Lisbon Treaty if it ends in a second resounding
No vote.

And even Jerzy Buzek, the president of the European Parliament and a political
ally, added a note of caution as he rose to congratulate Mr Barroso after the
ballot. "We are expecting a lot over the next five years," he said.

Others were more blunt, like Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Green Party's firebrand
leader who made his name during the 1968 French student revolution and whose
bloc opposed Mr Barroso as a lackey of the large member states including France
and Germany.

"I think I must be hallucinating," Mr Cohn-Bendit said. "Suddenly he's turned
into Jose Manuel Obama, Yes He Can! But it's too late, we know you. We've had
five years of you."

But Mr Barroso brushed off questions about his credibility and said he planned
to rule over the EU with a stronger hand. "It's great having this reaffirmation
of support," the 53-year old said. "And I do feel that my authority has been
reinforced, especially having had these very difficult five years," Mr Barroso
added.

He pledged to create new Commission posts and to address the issue of excessive
corporate bonuses. "If you want a strong Commission, that stands up sometimes to
member states, that stands up to national egoisms, you should give the
Commission the strong support it takes [to do so]," he said. "I think it's a
moment of truth for Europe ... If we don't act together, Europe risks being
marginalised."

While not thrilled by the outcome, many MEPs directed some of the blame at the
Socialists and Greens for failing to field a challenger. "It's all very well for
everyone to criticise him, but no one came with up with an alternative," says
Wim van de Kamp, head of the Dutch Christian Democrats. "So what did they
expect?"

"Barroso was re-elected because Europe could not agree on anyone else" Adrian
Hamilton, page 33

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nick Clegg changes direction in hope of pushing Labour into third position

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 833 words


The Liberal Democrats are to focus their general election campaign on Labour
seats in an historic shift that could help David Cameron.

Writing in The Times on the eve of his party conference, Nick Clegg, the party
leader, says that the Liberal Democrats and Labour have a shared goal - a
fairer, more equal society - but that Labour's methods have had their day.

He sets his party the aim of "replacing Labour as the dominant force of
progressive politics", suggesting that he believes that it may be possible to
push Labour into third place. His intervention is the starkest indication yet
that he will go head to head at next year's general election with Labour, rather
than the Tories.

"The new choice is between yellow and blue," he writes. "A choice between a
liberal political movement, led by the Liberal Democrats, which is attracting
disaffected progressive voters from a Labour Party which will take years to
recover, if it recovers at all; and a Conservative Party which parrots the
language of change in order to maintain the status quo."

This is a major shift because, in recent elections, Liberal Democrat leaders
have hinted that they would be more likely to tie up with Labour rather than
Tories in the event of no party winning an overall majority.

The Liberal Democrats denied that targeting their campaign at Labour supporters
would jeopardise their seats in the South East and the West Country under
challenge from the Tories.

Chris Huhne, the party's home affairs spokesman, who has a majority of just 530
at Eastleigh in Hampshire, is among those most vulnerable to a resurgent
Conservative Party.

With Mr Clegg focusing on the urban heartlands of Sheffield, Newcastle, Bristol
and Hull, where the Liberal Democrats have advanced in local elections since
2005, the Tories will be hoping that they will not have to fight so aggressively
on two fronts.

Mr Clegg suggests that he is hoping to pick up support if Labour lurches to the
left in the event of losing the general election. A more centrist, liberal
successor to Gordon Brown may, however, provide more opportunities for the
parties to work together. Although he shares some policy positions with the
Tories, including an end to ID cards and greater emphasis on civil liberties, Mr
Clegg rejects their lack of enthusiasm for social change. "At the core of
conservative thought is a determination to preserve, protect and defend," he
writes. "Conservatives are primarily governed by caution about the unintended
consequences of change, reluctant to change the status quo, especially to alter
the social pecking order in society."

He concedes that Labour's approaches were the right ones through much of the
20th century. "Its starting point is central state activism, its defining
characteristic is the hoarding of power at the centre, and its method of
delivery is top-down government. These reflexes once had their day."

Power should pass from the State and Europe, to the individual. "From fairer
taxes to the protection of civil liberties, from the reform of our clappedout
politics to the break-up of monopolistic banks, from devolved public services to
a new concept of green citizenship, from social radicalism in education to a
more effective and accountable European Union, dispersing power more fairly and
holding the powerful to account runs as a thread through all my liberal
beliefs."

The article coincides with publication of a Demos pamphlet, The Liberal Moment.
Richard Reeves, the group's director, said: "It has often suited Liberal
Democrat leaders to nod and wink about working with Labour, so this is
significant because it provides clarity in the way they are positioning
themselves against Labour. In the short term there might be electoral advantages
to the Conservatives, but in the long run the chances of a realignment on the
left should worry the Tories."

Why Lib Dems are on shaky ground

Analysis Sam Coates

The Liberal Democrats will be concentrating their firepower in "urban
heartlands", the party suggests today. Just as well, since the future of their
seats in the South West, home to more than a quarter of the parliamentary party
and where the Conservatives have won in the past, is far from assured.

The June council elections were a jarring wake-up call. The party was badly hit
in Somerset, where MPs such as David Laws and Jeremy Browne have seats, losing
overall control to the Tories for only the second time since 1993. The picture
was similarly bleak in Devon and Cornwall. Overall in the region the party came
third in the European vote after UKIP, getting little more than half of the Tory
vote.

Publicly, the Liberal Democrats point out that their vote held up in wards where
they have sitting MPs. Privately, several acknowledge that there is a looming
problem.

The electoral hurdle that the Conservatives face to form the next government is
huge. David Cameron has to win approximately 120 seats to form an administration
with a majority of 1. About 30 of these seats are held by Lib Dems.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, says: "The new choice is
between yellow and blue"
RICHARD POHLE FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Britain was never meant to be on;
the same side as the French

BYLINE: Tim Collard

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 692  words


During my time in the Foreign Office it was my aim (achieved) to go through my
whole career without setting foot in Brussels; I have always imagined Belgium's
capital as a homogeneous Europhiliac monoculture, where thoughtcrime can be
sniffed at 50 paces and UKIP can't get served in the bars. Europe was strictly
for those of high career aspirations and even higher boredom thresholds, and I
had neither.

My main experience of Euro-diplomacy was at our Embassy in China, where I sat on
the EU Coordinating Committee, where we "coordinated'' our position on issues of
common concern. This opened my eyes to the realities of EU "partnership'';
genuine transnational politics is still some way away.

If the Germans' dog-like devotion to all things EU reflects a sincere commitment
to the renunciation of war in Europe, the French seem to see the EU as a
continuation of the Hundred Years War by other means. Among the strategic
priorities of French foreign policy, getting one up on the rosbifs is certainly
prominent.

It starts with the eternal battle over language. It is written in the sacred
scriptures of the EU that English and French have equal status as working
languages, and all French diplomats are under instructions to conduct business
in French when it is their turn to chair anything.

This of course triggers passive resistance; our diplomats are all supposed to
speak French, though some don't and others conceal it, and the French are doing
well if they can get 10 minutes into the meeting without everyone lapsing into
English.

The arrival in 1995 of various Scandiwegians sealed victory for Britain, as most
of them couldn't manage so much as a parley-voo, and no doubt the struggle is
now utterly hopeless. Dealing with China presented endless opportunities for
one-upmanship. In the early Nineties it was all about holding a unified line on
trade sanctions against China after Tiananmen Square.

As at that time the Chinese only bought anything if we lent them the money to do
so at negligible interest, these sanctions didn't hurt us much, and the French
took the hardest line in enforcing them. This was, naturellement, because they
had found a devious way round them, involving fudging dates on contracts, and
wanted the rest of us bound all the tighter.

When China's economic situation improved, our hosts became worth sucking up to.
Since 1990 the EU had brought an annual resolution before the UN Human Rights
Commission condemning human rights abuses in China. In 1997 this position was
being reviewed; not because the human rights situation had improved, but because
the rewards available for sucking up certainly had.

The declared aim was to arrive at a united EU position. This proved difficult to
achieve, and negotiations stretched over the rest of the year. But with a united
position all 15 of us would benefit equally; it became steadily clearer that the
Quai d'Orsay wanted to contrive a competitive advantage.

Deadline day drew near with no decision reached; all the blocking moves came
from Paris. By this time one or two partners, principally the Dutch and Danes,
had committed themselves to tabling the human rights motion, and as one of them
(I forget which) held the rotating presidency, the proposal was formally put.

Once more than half of us had agreed, the French announced that they would not
sign up, as no proper agreement had been reached. The Germans and Club Med
chancers rushed to join them. Thus the French advantage was obtained, and the
Dutch and Danes got a good commercial kicking from the Chinese.

All attempts to remonstrate with the French for this behaviour were brushed
aside with Gallic insouciance. I was reminded of this episode when Tony Blair
was persuaded to concede on the UK contributions rebate in return for a promised
review of the CAP, with Chirac smirking away and saying afterwards that he would
make sure the review didn't change anything.

I'm no francophobe; I love the country, the charming, cultured people, the
relaxed attitude to working, and the browsing and sluicing. But we were never
meant to be on the same side. As for real EU partnership, we'll never see that
this century.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

NEWS NIBS

LENGTH: 702 words


TORIES MUST HOLD EU VOTE, WARNS TEBBIT

LORD Tebbit has warned David Cameron that he must hold a referendum on the
European constitution or risk losing voters to the UK Independence Party.

The former Conservative cabinet minister said the leader must toughen his stance
on the issue or face dissent from euro-sceptics at next month's party conference
in Manchester.

Mr Cameron is facing pressure over the Lisbon Treaty, which the Irish are
expected to ratify in their own referendum just before the Tory gathering.

Lord Tebbit claimed the row 'could cause ructions at conference', adding: 'The
bigger problem is that with the lack of a satisfactory assurance, our supporters
will vote UKIP at the next election or stay at home.'

His comments came as a YouGov poll revealed 57 per cent of voters want a
Conservative government to hold a referendum regardless of the result of the
Irish vote.

-

£41,000 GRAVY TRAIN FROM FAMILY'S FORGOTTEN CHINA

THEY had been gathering dust for decades in an old lady's larder. Only when it
came to a house clearance did antique experts consider these two gravy boats
might be worth a second look. They have now been purchased at auction for
£41,000 after being identified as among the earliestexamples of English
porcelain. Made in 1745, they are believed to have been in the same family for
generations but lain forgotten in a cupboard at the home of their elderly owner
in Northwich, Cheshire, until she was moved into a nursing home. The handpainted
boats bear the mark of a Chelsea factory.

-

MINISTER BACKS FRENCH CALL TO BAN BURKHAS

FRANCE'S hardline immigration minister has backed a French campaign to ban the
burkha.

Eric Besson said the Islamic full head-and-body covers were 'unacceptable' and
not welcome in France.

His call for a total ban comes after 58 French MPs called in June for a public
inquiry on whether it should be illegal for women to hide their faces in public.

Earlier this year Mr Besson said banning the outfits ñ worn by an estimated
2,000 women in France ñ would 'create tensions'. But he has now said he wants
them outlawed.

He said: 'The burkha is contrary to the principles of national identity, sexual
equality and of the French Republic.' President Nicolas Sarkozy also backs the
ban.

A government inquiry into the legality of the garments is due to reveal its
findings next month.

-

FOXY KNOXY LAWYERS ASK JUDGE TO CALL OFF TRIAL OVER 'DNA BLUNDERS'

AMANDA Knox's lawyers yesterday called for her long-running trial to be
abandoned because of allegedly botched forensic work.

As the case returned to court after a two-month break, her legal team argued
that DNA evidence previously presented in the trial was invalid.

Knox and her former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito are accused of the brutal sex
murder of British student Meredith Kercher, 22, who was found with her throat
cut.

Both Knox's and Sollecito's legal teams argued that the trial should be declared
null and void because of the 'unreliability of the DNA results'.

Judge Giancarlo Massei refused the request, saying that the tests had been
carried correctly and the 'defendants rights had not been harmed'.

However, the trial was adjourned until Friday, when further forensic consultants
will testify for the defence.

-

JOANNA JOINS M&S TO DELIVER A CHRISTMAS SWIPE AT 'AGEIST' TV

MARKS & Spencer is leading a Christmas onslaught against television ageism.

The retailer is fielding three celebrities with a combined age of 180 in its
festive advertrising campaign, which has traditionally taken the form of a film.

Joanna Lumley, 63 (pictured), John Sergeant, 65, and Stephen Fry, 52, will be
paid around £100,000 each for a £5million campaign, alongside the established
star of M&S promotions, Twiggy. The decision to prominently feature older stars
comes while debate rages about ageism in broadcasting.

Earlier this year there were thousands of complaints after Arlene Phillips was
axed from Strictly Come Dancing and replaced by the much younger Alesha Dixon.

The BBC has since bowed to criticism and given the 66-year-old a role on new
prime time show So You Think You Can Dance?

Selina Scott, Anna Ford and Kate Adie are among veteran broadcasters who have
voiced anger about the lack of older faces on screens.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Tory who defected in EU dispute;
to run for leadership of Ukip

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 198  words


LORD PEARSON of Rannoch, who left the Conservative Party in a dispute over
Europe, is to stand for the leadership of the UK Independence Party (Ukip).

He said yesterday he had been spurred on by the refusal of the main parties to
"come clean'' over the Lisbon Treaty. He will be favourite to take over from
Nigel Farage, who is standing down to try to become Ukip's first MP by
challenging John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, in Buckingham. Lord Pearson
defected from the Tories to Ukip in 2007 because he felt that the party was
insufficiently Eurosceptic. He said the Conservatives under David Cameron were
"going in the wrong direction.'' His move gave Ukip its first parliamentary
representation.

Yesterday, he cited a poll in The Daily Telegraph as an example of how the
political leaders were not in tune with public opinion on Europe. Forty three
per cent of respondents said they would prefer to leave the EU altogether rather
than accept the Lisbon Treaty.

"Lisbon is a watershed,'' said Lord Pearson, 67. "If it goes through that's
pretty much the end of the game. Our membership of the EU has removed the rights
of British democracy.

"There is now a secretive process of law-making.'

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tebbit calls for vote

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 71 words


Lord Tebbit yesterday called on David Cameron to pledge a referendum on the EU
reform treaty, even if it has already been introduced (Francis Elliott writes).
He said that unless the party's next manifesto included a commitment to a
retrospective referendum, it risked losing ground to UKIP. The Lisbon treaty is
expected to be ratified before the general election if it is backed by a
referendum in the Irish Republic next month.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 13, 2009

Your letters

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1090 words


Americans know the true cost of the war

In her article "Image of dying marine divides US" (News, last week), Gaby
Hinsliff provided a very well balanced picture of the controversy over this
image, and I appreciated the article until I reached its concluding sentence:
"But as America continues to debate the use of his image, Joshua Bernard has now
come to symbolise something more: the suffering inflicted on America's sons and
daughters in uniform, and the unease of fellow citizens forced to confront the
grim truth about their deaths."

I object to an outsider's psychoanalysis of what about this image bothers the
American people. We know the grim truth about those who are dead because we as a
nation have asked them to sacrifice themselves. We do not bear the
responsibility for their deaths easily, and we are not trying to hide from
reality.

My objection, and that of many in my acquaintance, has little to do with our
feelings about the war and everything to do with the sale of this young man's
death. AP decided that its duty to a nebulous public was greater than the wishes
of the people who knew him best. They made his anguish available to the general
public, which will use the image to applaud his heroism and decry his cause, to
argue for more troops or against the war. At its basest, AP knew that this image
would sell.

Kathryn Hunter

Eagle River, Alaska, US

Don't stereotype us cabbies

While I agree with the conclusion of Cristina Odone's article ("For women, taxis
must remain a haven", Comment, last week) with regard to trust being lost in the
black-cab trade if a convicted killer is given a licence, I object to the rest
of the article, which was simply used as an excuse to criticise and stereotype
all black-cab drivers.

As a Guardian reader, I have to put up with much stereotyping. My liver is not
made of lilies and I've never grown a beard or worn sandals. I've no
recollection of ever hugging a tree. Now I read Cristina Odone's equally
ludicrous accusations. London's 25,000 cab drivers are so diverse, yet they are
broadly accused of being racist, sexist and ignorant. The trade is weighted
towards being male, white and native-born, but is that the fault of the drivers?
Cristina should visit one of the many Knowledge schools to see that the majority
of the students no longer fit into this category. As for being more expensive
than mini-cabs, it's obvious she hasn't tried to use a minicab from the West End
at night.

Jeremy Slattery

London W12

Stopping tobacco smuggling is easy

You have a big story on South American governments and drugs (News, last week).
The former president of Brazil writes of the devastating effect. The "drug war"
can't be won, so make them legal and tax them. This was obvious years ago, as
the people fighting the "drug war" had no interest in ending it. You even had an
editorial on the subject. You then had a story "Gangsters recruit girls to
traffic illicit tobacco" and a UK border agent saying we are determined to
eradicate tobacco smuggling.

Tobacco smuggling can be stopped overnight. It was caused by Gordon Brown's high
taxes. It won't be stopped because they will never reduce the tax, you won't
write an editorial on it, and the narrow vision of the health police can't see
the damage they do. It's very depressing.

David Hockney

East Yorkshire

Teachers can't heal society unaided

As a member of the leadership team of a large secondary school, I have some
sympathy with Jenni Murray's view ("We all suffer when adults lose authority
over children", Comment, last week) that adults are being divested of their
authority over children. She suggests that nowhere is this more apparent than in
schools. There is some truth in this, although when I come into contact with
parents it often becomes clear where the real lack of authority lies. "What do
you expect me to do about it? He's at your school - you deal with it!" is the
type of response I have commonly received.

For some children, teachers may be the only people in their lives who attempt to
set proper boundaries; when this is neither supported nor reinforced at home,
the task of implementing the "rigour and discipline" which Jenni Murray lauds
becomes extremely difficult, and sometimes impossible.

Perhaps the real question is whether it really is the function of schools to
take responsibility for socialising society's most delinquent children. If so,
we will need the tools, training and resources to do the job properly at a time
when education spending is likely to be cut for the first time since 1997.

Morgan P Thomas

Chichester, West Sussex

Demon drink needs no promotion

In Roy Hattersley's article on Keith Waterhouse (Focus, last week), you chose to
highlight a quote about the writer's capacity for alcohol ("I've never known a
man who could drink so much without falling down"), instead of one related to
his writing talent. The fact that this wasn't surprising, and made me smile,
seems to reflect the ingrained love affair our islands have with drinking and
getting drunk. The endless health warnings, restrictions on cheap drink
promotions, raising of duty and limitations of licensing hours are small weapons
against the admiration that most British media still seem to have for drinking
to excess.

Such admiration is now usually veiled, yet minor but frequent episodes, like
Claire Balding's BBC studio encouragement to our gold medal-winning rowers to
have a drink or five following their success at last year's Olympics, reinforce
the message. As an Irishman living in Scotland, I am only too aware of the
pernicious effects of alcohol and would encourage you to consider the message
that you are broadcasting.

Michael Gray

Edinburgh

BBC's 'disgraceful' decision

The decision by the BBC's Question Time to invite the BNP leader Nick Griffin on
the programme ("BBC forces Labour to rethink BNP ban", front page, last week) is
disgraceful and has nothing to do with the BBC treating a BNP MEP in the same
way it treats Ukip and Green MEPs. Griffin appeared on Newsnight and the Daily
Politics programmes before the European elections, giving him better publicity
than Ukip and the Greens and helping the BNP to win seats in the EU parliament.
The BBC's constant demonisation of Muslims has played into the hands of the BNP
as well.

Sadly, the response of ethnic minority leaders has been pathetic. I think now is
the time for these leaders to boycott the BBC and to call on their communities
to refuse to pay the TV licence to an organisation that gives publicity to a
white supremacist.

Mohammed Samaana

Belfast


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 13, 2009

Comment: Your letters: BBC's 'disgraceful' decision

BYLINE: Mohammed Samaana

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 140 words


The decision by the BBC's Question Time to invite the BNP leader Nick Griffin on
the programme ("BBC forces Labour to rethink BNP ban", front page, last week) is
disgraceful and has nothing to do with the BBC treating a BNP MEP in the same
way it treats Ukip and Green MEPs. Griffin appeared on Newsnight and the Daily
Politics programmes before the European elections, giving him better publicity
than Ukip and the Greens and helping the BNP to win seats in the EU parliament.
The BBC's constant demonisation of Muslims has played into the hands of the BNP
as well.

Sadly, the response of ethnic minority leaders has been pathetic. I think now is
the time for these leaders to boycott the BBC and to call on their communities
to refuse to pay the TV licence to an organisation that gives publicity to a
white supremacist.

Mohammed Samaana

Belfast


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 13, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Lesbian leader may be a tall order for UKIP;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 161 words


Here's a phrase you won't read very often: could a 6ft 4in lesbian be the next
leader of the UK Independence party? Nikki Sinclaire, an MEP for the West
Midlands and former secretary of the party, has announced that she wants to
succeed Nigel Farage. He is to fight John Bercow for the Commons Speaker's
parliamentary seat at the next general election.

One thing's for sure: with Nikki at the helm, there will never be a dull moment.
Because of her height and sexuality, she has often been forced to deny that
she's a transsexual. In 2004, she turned down approaches from party members who
wanted her to lead a gay wing of UKIP. She was on holiday in Lesbos at the time.

However, I should warn Nikki that being featured in Atticus will not necessarily
boost her chances of success. Last week I tipped MEP Marta Andreasen, former
chief accountant of the European Commission, as a bold and "colourful" choice
for UKIP leader.

The very next day, Marta resigned from the party.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 13, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why BBC's decision to include BNP will be judged as wise

BYLINE: Jimmy YOUNG

SECTION: COLUMNS; 39

LENGTH: 440  words


THE BRITISH National Party is supported by only a tiny minority of the British
public yet, to the dismay of many, it appears to be on the brink of achieving a
breakthrough to respectability. It seems it may be invited to participate in the
BBC's flagship discussion programme, Question Time.

The BNP gained 6.26 per cent of the national vote in the European elections and
the party leader, Nick Griffin, and another party member were elected as MEPs.

Yet despite that small success, the BNP remains a minority party.

The BBC's chief political adviser, Ric Bailey, however, says that it has now
demonstrated evidence of electoral support at a national level, and this would
be reflected in the amount of coverage the party received on BBC programmes such
as Question Time. Mr Bailey said: "The BBC is obliged to treat all political
parties registered with the Electoral Commission and operating within the law
with due impartiality."

That decision has presented politicians of the main parties with a dilemma,
particularly Labour. The areas where the BNP has been relatively successful,
such as Burnley, Oldham, Barking and Stoke, have previously been dominated by
Labour. Yet Labour has traditionally refused to appear alongside the BNP on the
grounds that it would give legitimacy to the party's views on race.

The Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats say they will debate with Mr Griffin
because his views must be confronted and so, faced with the prospect of being
represented by an empty chair, Labour was forced to review its position. It has
now announced that if Mr Griffin appears on Question Time it will field a senior
representative.

Martin Salter, a senior Labour MP and an ardent campaigner against the BNP,
describes the BBC's decision as lamentable but said that it would make little
sense for Labour to boycott the programme. He said:

"We have to deal with the world as it is."

If denied the right to appear the BNP might claim that the BBC was victimising
them.

They could point out that other minority parties such as the Greens, Ukip and
Respect have all been represented on Question Time so why should they be banned.

The BNP is not going to quietly fold its tents and disappear, so surely it is
better to allow it to subject its policies to open debate and questioning after
which, as the BBC rightly says: "Our audiences, and the electorate, will make up
their own minds about the different policies offered by elected politicians."

There will be protests and possibly demonstrations but if the programme is as
revealing as I'm sure it will be, the BBC's decision will come to be seen not as
lamentable but courageous and wise.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPEN DEBATE: BNP leader Nick Griffin MEP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EUROCRATS TO CONTROL BRITAIN'S BORDERS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 758  words


BRITAIN will be forced to take in an extra 30,000 ref ugees a year as part of an
EU bid to seize control of our immigration system, the Daily Express can reveal.

Brussels chief Jose Manuel Barroso intends to appoint a commissioner in charge
of a new Europe-wide immigration bureau if he is re-elected as European
Commission president next week.

The new EU department would have wide-ranging powers that would supersede
national law, similar to the Commission's role in trade, transport, agriculture
and fi sheries.

The plan was condemned last night as sealing Britain's fate as a sovereign
nation. UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "This is outrageous.

This would give migrants the green light to head for Europe.

"The proposal to create an EU Immigration Commissioner shows that Brussels is
serious in taking over the last remnants of our immigration policy.

"Decisions on who can and cannot enter the country, who can and cannot live
here, are the essence of an independent country. This shows we aren't."

Some 238,365 refugees asked for asylum in the EU in 2008, latest figures reveal.
However, an estimated 500,000 illegal immigrants come to Europe every year,
according to Brussels officials, with up to eight million already living and
working illegally in the EU.

The Brussels plan would mean Britain would have to accept an extra 30,940
refugees on top of 20,000 asylum applications processed by the Home Office every
year. More than 100,0000 migrant workers also come to the UK legally.

President Barroso revealed his plan to Maltese MEPs this week as he canvassed
support for re-election at a vote in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. The
proposals would force Britain to accept tens of thousands of migrants from
Africa, Asia and the Middle East as EU states would be compelled to share the
burden of illegal immigration faced by Malta, Italy, Greece, Cyprus and Spain.

The UK would be obliged to take in up to 13 per cent of all EU refugees as part
of a common European asylum policy to which we are already committed.

The percentage share, which is worked out by population, would see Britain
having to accept 30,940, more than any other country apart from Germany.

The EU has already begun a controversial re-settlement programme of asylum
seekers from Malta with the first batch of African migrants accepted by France
earlier this year.

Brussels is now calling on the UK and all other EU members to take in the
thousands of migrants held in detention centres on the Italian island of
Lampedusa, on the Greek islands and mainland, and in the Canary Islands.

European Commission vicepresident Jacques Barrot's spokesman told the Daily
Express: "The UK is part of the EU and its common asylum policy. A determined
European response based on firmness, solidarity and shared responsibility is
essential, in line with the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum. We are
bringing practical solutions to put real solidarity in place, action not just
words. The French example sets the tone.

"In view of the present humanitarian emergency, concrete measures need to be
quickly put in place and implemented."

President Barroso wants to widen Europe's role in combating illegal immigration
and share the burden of asylum seekers who are heading to Europe from North
Africa.

States on Europe's southern border have been the destination of growing numbers
of migrants desperate to start a new life in Europe. Every week hundreds set off
in overcrowded boats.

Malta, whose population is just over 400,000, claims it has become overwhelmed
by illegal immigrants since it joined the EU in 2004 and has appealed to
Brussels for help. Greece, Italy and Spain have also asked for greater
assistance in combating illegal immigration.

Last night an EU Commission spokeswoman said President Barroso would reveal
details o f his plan "in due course". But the Home Offi ce said it would not
agree to the proposals.

A spokesman said: "The UK will not agree to anything that weakens our control
over our borders and the EU has no power to force us to take extra asylum
seekers or determine our immigration policy.

"We fully recognise the acute pressures faced by member states at the
Mediterranean border, but we do not believe that internal EU relocation is the
right solution - it has the potential simply to provide further incentives for
illegal migrants and those who facilitate their movement.

"Instead we need to work closely with third countries to tackle illegal flows
before they reach our shores."

19,795 - the estimated number of illegal immigrants entering EU every year

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Hedge fund and private equity leaders protest against EU clampdown

BYLINE: Miles Costello

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 440 words


Heavyweights from the hedge fund and private equity industries yesterday lined
up to attack the architect of a controversial European investments directive,
which they claim threatens their business and the competitiveness of the City of
London.

Backed by their new cheerleader, Lord Myners, the City Minister, representatives
from the two sectors accused Poul Rasmussen of unfairly singling them out for a
regulatory clampdown.

Mr Rasmussen, president of the European Party of Socialists and the former
Danish Prime Minister, was instrumental in drafting the alternative investment
fund management directive, which was conceived by the European Commission to
help to prevent a repeat of the banking crisis. Critics of the proposal - which
imposes onerous reporting and disclosure requirements on managers and makes it
harder for non-EU funds to access European markets - say the rules were
politically motivated and hastily drafted with little consultation.

"Hedge funds and private equity were not central to the financial crisis and
should not be receiving the priority of EU regulation that they are," said Lord
Myners at an open debate that was hosted by the City of London Corporation
yesterday.

Douglas Shaw, the head of alternatives at BlackRock, the US fund manager, said
that restricting European markets to EU funds would harm competition. He said
that he was not opposed to "effective regulation", but added: "I worry that the
growing compliance burden will prevent the BlackRocks of the future competing
with us."

Also present at the meeting was Stuart Wheeler, the founder of the
spread-betting firm IG Index and former donor to the Conservative Party, who now
supports the anti-European UK Independence Party.

David Campbell Bannerman, an MEP and deputy leader of UKIP, said that he would
be voting against the directive and called on Mr Rasmussen to confirm that it
was his ambition to "downsize" and "damage" the City of London.

An unrepentant Mr Rasmussen said that it was "too much" to argue that hedge
funds and private equity were blameless, but added: "I'm not here to inspire
your fear. I'm going for a strong position of competitiveness as my point of
departure. You can't obtain that true competitiveness without transparency and a
level playing field for all players."

However, he said that the European Parliament would agree to carry out an
"impact assessment", to look at areas, such as that covering UK investment
trusts, where funds would be unfairly caught up in the directive's net, although
he said that there would be "no watering down" of the directive.

'Hedge funds and private equity were not central to the crisis'

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 11, 2009 Friday

Comment & Debate: The biggest problem for the Lib Dems is illiberal Britain:
From the economy to climate change the party has often been right, yet a
breakthrough in the polls remains a dream

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1089 words


This ought to be their moment. They have been right on so many issues - and they
still are. They are stronger in many ways than they have ever been. Yet the
Liberal Democrats will gather for their conference in Bournemouth at the end of
next week suspecting that, yet again, it is probably not to be. As Ted Kennedy
might have put it, the dream goes on. But that's the problem. It's still only a
dream.

What aren't the Lib Dems doing better? It is a really important question, and it
is important not just for the party itself. For an honest answer also surely
goes to the heart of the already interminable debate about the future of
self-described progressive politics in this country. And it even, perhaps, tells
us something fundamental about the people and country we are.

By so many yardsticks, the Lib Dems deserve to be higher in the polls than they
are. Michael Meadowcroft, intermittent party loyalist and former MP for Leeds
West, listed several of them in a typically forceful Guardian letter yesterday:
the economy, Europe, ID cards, Iraq and localism. On all of them, as he says,
the Lib Dems have been consistently right. One can add others to the list that
Meadowcroft omitted: climate change, police powers, tax, electoral reform. All
big subjects on which the Lib Dems have been right most of the time in ways that
put the other parties to shame.

Why look any further, Meadowcroft asks? Many agree with him. But not enough do,
and that's the bigger point. Yes, I can already feel the indignant emails
winging their way towards me. Haven't you seen the latest ComRes poll in the
Independent this week, Martin? The one that puts them on 21%, up three points in
a month and now only three adrift of Labour, making it the party's best standing
in any poll for some weeks. Doesn't that disprove all that metropolitan Guardian
fatalism?

Well it doesn't disprove mine, I'm afraid. In the first place, that was just one
poll. The other eight polls over the last month have the Lib Dems between 17%
and 19%. So let's wait and see the next few before yet another claim of yet
another Lib Dem breakthrough. More importantly though, even 21% isn't good
enough for a situation like this, in which the governing party is getting
pummelled and there are big doubts about their main opponents. This ought to be
a perfect storm for the two main parties, with the Lib Dems reaping the reward.
Instead it's just typical British political weather, cloudy with occasional
sunshine and showers.

And it isn't as though the Lib Dems aren't making their mark. Yes, I know that
the system is biased against them and that the media don't give them a fair
shout. I agree with a lot of those complaints. But you can't seriously pretend
that Vince Cable hasn't managed to get his voice heard throughout the financial
crisis. I heard Cable cheered to the echo at the Hay festival a few months ago.
The marquee was full to bursting with people who would have followed him over
any barricade that Vince cared to nominate. Most people, though, aren't like
that.

That's not just my opinion. It's a fact, though an unwelcome one. Look at the
real votes that real people have been casting in real elections in the last few
months. The Lib Dem performance in the June local elections, held mainly in
areas where the party polls well, was reasonable: 25%. But the European
elections, held nationwide on the same day, were terrible: 14%. Moreover, the
Lib Dems have lost the art of winning byelections. They should have won Henley
in 2008. Since Henley, their vote has gone down every time - including Norwich
North, another seat they would have won in earlier times.

Optimistic Lib Dems - are there any other kind? - should look carefully at that
byelection result just seven weeks ago. In Norwich North, the Lib Dems didn't
just fail to win. They weren't just edged out by the Tories. Their vote actually
went down, both in absolute terms and as a share of the poll. Every other
challenger party increased its share. It was an absolutely terrible result for a
party that always fancies its chances in byelections against an unpopular
government.

So why are the Lib Dems not doing better? The first answer can be put in two
words: David and Cameron. Cameron's election as Tory leader in late 2005 was a
watershed for the Lib Dems. Before Cameron - BC - they were most voters' default
second choice. After Dave - AD - they weren't. A liberal Tory leader - and
Cameron is, whatever anyone says - has stopped the long-familiar Tory-to-Lib Dem
swing vote in its tracks.

The second answer, though, is that the Lib Dems have become part of the
establishment. For decades they have prospered as the anti-politics party,
running against the system, apostles of new politics. Now, particularly after
the expenses scandal, they have woken up to discover that they are seen as part
of the problem. The cosy two-party system is suddenly the cosy three-party
system, and the Lib Dems are a cosy part of it. Meanwhile, other small parties
have seized the ground the Lib Dems once thought to rule unchallenged. If you
want to vote against the establishment, you can now vote Green or Red or Ukip or
even BNP. Look at Norwich North or the European elections. Doubtless it's all
very unfair. But it's also true.

However the third answer is that Britain may not, after all, be as liberal a
society as many of us would like, and sometimes pretend. I don't think there is
any doubt that the Lib Dems stand for liberal values and that the voters
understand this. It is silly to pretend that Nick Clegg is in any significant
way more or less liberal than Ming Campbell, Charles Kennedy or any of their
predecessors. The truth is simply that most Tory and Labour voters are not
instinctively liberals.

Being liberal, the writer turned politician Michael Ignatieff said in a lecture
in London in July, is a habit of the heart. A liberal has a generous heart and
an open mind. A liberal puts freedom first, is optimistic about human nature but
sceptical about power. Ignatieff's definitions seem about right to me. But I do
not think a majority of people share them, and certainly not in either the Tory
or the Labour party. Yes, there is a liberal tradition in both of those parties.
But, no, it is not a very strong one. The Lib Dems are not natural bedfellows
for either of them - though this won't stop lots of people speculating about how
it might happen. In the end, the reason the Lib Dems are not doing better is
simple. Not enough other people are liberals.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Farage? Might as well be Johnny foreigner

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 734 words


Nigel Farage has started popping up in the news again, and now that he'll be
contesting Mr Speaker Bercow's Buckingham seat in the coming general election,
it looks as though the only UKIP person whose name anybody can remember is set
to maintain his media profile.

But he's doomed. Not because UKIP doesn't have a perfectly coherent case to
make; and not because Mr Farage isn't a clever debater and an eloquent speaker.
It's because of his name. Farage. What kind of an English name is that? Farage,
indeed! As in dressage, badinage, persiflage, reportage or massage? It sounds so
Frenchified and airy-fairy. One can imagine Hyacinth Bucket: "Ah, Mr Farage,
please don't take umbrahge, but leave your car in the g'rahge in Wantahge and
join me and my entourage for a game of cribbahge. A glass of Hermitage, anyone?"

This poncified foreign pronunciation is so not UKIP. Mr Farage's only hope is to
change his name at once - or at least its pronunciation. "Farage" should be
re-pronounced to chime with cabbage, forage, vintage and bandage. Ideally, it
should be respelt, too: Farridge. Now there's a good, English-sounding name.

Platform ticket

An exceptionally powerful column by Matthew Syed in Monday's Times got, from a
Mr Christopher Gibbins in Australia, a powerful letter in response, published in
yesterday's paper. Matthew wants the BNP to be offered a platform. This, he
believes, will help to expose and kill the party's rotten arguments. Mr Gibbins,
however, says a platform will help the party to advance its arguments, therefore
it should be denied. I disagree with both of them. To argue that a platform
should be allowed to those we disagree with because this will damage their cause
isn't far from implying that a platform should be denied to them because it will
advance their cause.

But I believe in open debate - full stop. I believe in it even if I fear it may
help my enemy's argument to prosper. We liberals must, I suppose, retain a
subterranean confidence that open debate will one day, however long it may take
and however rough the road, lead towards the kind of world we'd approve of; but
we're on shaky ground if we start deciding each petition according to how much
immediate damage it will do the petitioner.

As it happens I agree with Mr Gibbins that publicity might well be good for the
BNP; but I agree with Matthew that they should not be gagged. This is
uncomfortable for me, but I won't resile from a belief in free speech, come what
may.

Above their station

In-train announcements on East Midlands Trains have a new word for stations:
they're now "calling points". This is even sillier than the silliness it
replaces: "station stops" (as if, informed that the next "stop" was Leicester, a
blind person might try to pile out of the window if the train stopped earlier at
signals). I suppose the rationale for "calling point" is that a pedant might
insist that the next station was Kettering, even if we weren't stopping until
Leicester.

So now Leicester has become a calling point. The train, incidentally, is a
"service". We passengers are "customers". And in railway-ese the verb "alight"
has dropped its "from". So passengers do not alight from the train at a station:
customers alight the service at a calling point. Indeed, they all do when the
service "terminates". Do you think communications boffins change ordinary
English words for the sheer hell of it? Or are they just desperate to invent
reasons for their own existence?

Rail grooming

On London Underground stations (sorry, calling points) there's a new poster ad
campaign for TacheBack: a national fundraiser that, with the help of celebrity
supporters, is urging men to prove their manliness by growing a sponsored
moustache in aid of the Everyman Male Cancer Campaign. Two thoughts. Couldn't we
instead sponsor people who do have moustaches to shave them off? Failing that -
and for generous sponsorship - I'm prepared to join a group of concerned male
citizens all willing to grow moustaches (temporarily) in return for the Defence
Secretary, Bob Ainsworth, (permanently) removing his.

Lines on the leaves

A particularly severe outbreak of an endemic disease of sycamores in Britain
(probably fungal) has been withering all the leaves of many trees this August
and September, turning them grey-brown. This is giving the late summer woodlands
in Derbyshire a pallid, sepia-tinted look: exhausted, ghostly, strange.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's not difficult - you just spend less;
The Mayor of Doncaster slashed his salary, ditched the car and the chauffeur,
and plans to cut the number of councillors, he tells Penny Wark

BYLINE: Penny Wark

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1266 words


Nice idea, Dave. Cut ministers' salaries, dump a third of their chauffeur-driven
chariots and bump up the price of subsidised Westminster tuck to a level that
might ring a bell with the humble voter. Isn't that just what we want to hear
when we're still reeling from the pong of all the nasty stuff that steamed into
our nostrils during the MPs expenses scandal?

David Cameron thinks so. But as the newly demoted Alan Duncan has pointed out -
unwisely but pertinently - there are limits. He didn't quite say, pay peanuts
and you get monkeys, but he is not the first to understand that if you cut the
funding of our political leaders to the bone, it will be difficult to attract
able - and potentially high-earning - people into politics unless they are
independently wealthy.

Peter Davies is not wealthy. He is a retired religious studies teacher, but as
the Mayor of Doncaster, an English Democrat elected in June at the height of the
MPs expenses debacle, he is already putting Cameron's ideas to the test. Davies
slashed his own salary from £73,000 to £30,000, disposed of the mayor's
chauffeur-driven Toyota Prius and plans to cut the number of the town's
councillors from 63 to 21.

"People are suspicious of anyone in local government," he says. "I thought,
let's go back to the days when public service was important and people gave of
themselves to the town, show the people of Doncaster that I'm here to serve them
and not in it for any self-gain. Here's a different agenda, one that appears to
coincide with what the man on the Clapham omnibus is thinking."

Davies prides himself on saying what he thinks. He supports "harsh punishment
for young thugs" and promises to run a nofrills value-for-money bureaucracy that
will maintain essential services and eradicate what he regards as politically
correct dead wood. Yet his tactics are raising questions, not least one that is
applicable to Westminster at a time when it suddenly feels bound to cut the cost
of its workforce. Has Davies, who has never previously held a publicly elected
office, got the experience and nous to take on a big political job?

Prior to his administration Doncaster had been led by a socialist council for 35
years. Did the voters realise how right wing he is? "I don't think I am right
wing. Labour voters will tell you they're in favour of capital punishment,
they're fed up of Eastern European immigration. People can just wander into the
country willy-nilly. Right, left and even centre have gone." So where do you
stand? "I don't know. I stand where the ordinary citizen stands who feels
neglected by the three main political parties." Do you support capital
punishment? "Yeah, I do." To what extent? Hanging? "I'm not bothered what the
means is."

It's the "don't know" words that are strange in a political context, and Davies
uses them a lot. He wants to tackle antisocial behaviour but doesn't know how
this will work, he wants to remove PC jobs but doesn't know where they are in
his council, he doesn't know how much money he has saved because he hasn't yet
added it up, and replies by working through the individual items. This may be
honest, guileless and entirely lacking in spin - but do we want to be led by
people who can't anticipate, who admit they don't have answers? Doesn't good
leadership depend on a sense of confidence and certainty that provides security
for those operating below?

We are in the mayor's office, a plain room in an ugly 1960s tower block once
used by the National Coal Board. The grey walls are scuffed and there is no
computer on Davies' desk - he doesn't use them, and neither does he accept calls
on his mobile phone. It is hard to gauge how his populist messages are going
down in Doncaster - and whether Cameron might learn a lesson from him. Speak to
people in the streets and it seems that they have yet to form an clear opinion,
though he says his office has received 2,000 e-mails of support. There is a
campaign against him on the internet, and there are others who dissect the
moments when he has been unguarded and unprepared but the mayor doesn't read
their rumblings.

If the majority have yet to make up their minds about him it is perhaps because
while he is well-intentioned and has a remarkable lack of ego for a politician,
he doesn't come across as a man who listens. Did he expect to be elected? "No."
Was he ready for it? "Yes."

That is hard to believe. What did he mean when he wrote in his manifesto that he
would scrap politically correct non-jobs "and encourage the former employees to
seek meaningful employment".

"It was a throwaway remark, wasn't it?" Can there be such a thing in politics?
"My manifestos are truthful but there's an element of humour in there. I get
quizzed on every nuance but my manifesto is going to be kept far more than any
political party's has been kept in the past."

Davies is 66, the son of a socialist butcher from a mining background, and a
Conservative mother from a farming family. His childhood on a farm outside
Doncaster was idyllic, and for the first ten years of his adult life he voted
Labour.

In 1973 he attended a Mayday socialist rally, realised he didn't fit in, and
joined the Conservative party three weeks later. Twenty years after that, when
John Major signed the Maastrict treaty, Davies joined UKIP, but left when it
splintered in 2000. He joined the English Democrats five years later, and
supports its call for a separate English parliament.

"It's a very popular message, I tell you. Dead easy. You would reduce the number
in Westminster, throw that lot out altogether, probably only need 50 of them to
do things like defence and law and order.

"National politics should listen to what people want. What we've got is a
patronising and condescending approach from the three main parties: they know
best, there's no debate, they're completely out of touch with the public. We're
full of professional politicians, people who have no experience in life of
anything outside that cocoon of the House of Commons."

True, Davies has lived outside that cocoon. He has spent 30 years entertaining
children in classrooms, he maintains - "A teacher has got to be a ham actor" -
and now he lives in a small detached house with his second wife and two cats,
drives himself to work in a Nissan Almeira Twister, and uses his leisure time
reading Thomas Hardy, watching cricket and betting to support his part-ownership
of three horses. There are those who think he is admirable, others who would
describe him as an amateur who is on a steep learning curve.

"If you tell people things as they are, and you're honest, then you're halfway
there," he maintains. "There's a difference between mistakes in policies or
things that I don't do, and words and nuances." Which will come as news to
Westminster.

The Mayor's efficiency drive

Things done

Cut Mayor's salary from £73,000 to £30,000. Axed car (saving £6,000). Stopped
future funding for gay pride event (£3,000).

Stopped council newspaper, Doncaster News.

Wrote to the Electoral Commission to cut the number of councillors.

Things to do

Lower council tax by cutting bureaucracy. Axe membership of Local Government
Association and Local Government Information Unit (approximately £60,000). Cut
twinning ties with five towns saving more than £4,000.

End malpractice and mismanagement. Scrap politically correct non-jobs and
encourage the former employees to seek meaningful employment. Encourage every
school to opt out of local authority control . Ensure police concentrate
resources on catching criminals. Halt the architectural vandalism of Doncaster
and protect the town's heritage.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PAUL ROGERS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

HE VOWED TO RESTORE FAITH IN PARLIAMENT AND BE ABOVE PARTY POLITICS. SO WHY ON
EARTH HAS THE NEW SPEAKER HIRED A 6100K SPIN DOCTOR?

BYLINE: BY QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1270 words


BACK in June, on the day he stood for election to Speaker of the House of
Commons, John Bercow promised to 're-assert the core values of this great
institution'.

Furrowing his brow until it resembled a pious oblong of corrugated iron, he
regretted 'the crisis of confidence in parliamentarians themselves'.

And then came a great dollop of plummy gravitas, an airlock of indigestion
working its way through the copper pipes of his upper abdomen, as candidate
Bercow declared nobly that a Speaker's 'own political preferences must be
permanently case aside'.

What fine sentiments! What a Cicero!

Drag that man to the great high chair of Parliament and make him the foremost
commoner of the kingdom!

This week the same John Bercow, now duly installed in the splendour of the
Speaker's grace-and-favour mansion in the Palace of Westminster, announced that
he was breaking with custom and was awarding himself a publicly-paid, political,
special adviser.

The job, which will pay between 685,000 and 6100,000, has gone to a
long-standing public relations friend of Mr Bercow called Tim Hames. One report
yesterday suggested that the position had not been advertised and that no other
candidates were interviewed. How cosy.

This Hames, a one-time Blairite columnist on The Times, assisted Mr Bercow
gratis during his subterranean campaign for the Speakership. Now he will derive
the benefit of a juicy public-sector salary, plus perks, plus esteem, plus
shadowy leverage over our body politic. And you, dear readers, are coughing up
for the privilege. Behold the modern British Establishment at its doings again.

What a satisfactory arrangement for all concerned -- save, that is, we schmucks
who are the governed, we payers of taxes, we the ignored and downtrodden who
keep this lot in clover.

Special advisers, first created by Harold Wilson, are a blot on our politics.
These political leeches, of whom there are now 81, cost the taxpayer 65.9
million a year. It is no coincidence that their rise over the years has mirrored
the descent of the House of Commons.

Special advisers, or 'spads' as they are often called, are penumbral figures who
operate in the margins of public life. You can see them, if you frequent such
places, in the smart restaurants of the West End, deep in conversation with
lobbyists, media grandees and the various slopers and sliders of London's
off-piste power politics.

You can spot them, too, around the cloisters of New Palace Yard underneath Big
Ben, buttonholing backbench MPs, arranging little meetings, oiling the career
cogs of their masters and mistresses.

Spads are sometimes the trainee politicos of tomorrow, sometimes the washed-up
rejects of yesterday. In Whitehall they are often to be found climbing into
limousines alongside their ministers, carrying folders and wearing expressions
of sphinx-like self-pleasure.

Like butterflies, they can have short lives. They lose their jobs the moment
their patrons fall off the greasy pole. This can lend them a certain air of
desperation and can explain why they are so ferociously loyal to their employers
-- rather more loyal to them, in fact, than they are to government or party or
department.

Spads generally keep well out of the way of the electorate. They are fixers,
nudge-and-wink johnnies, dealers in influence and pressure. In other words, they
are the very opposite of parliamentary accountability. And now the Speaker of
the House of Commons is to have one.

This is amazing, unwelcome news -- damaging not only to silly Mr Bercow, but
also to the Speakership itself.

Explaining his hiring, Mr Bercow, through some Press mouthpiece (another public
hire), said yesterday that he is engaging Mr Hames to help him formulate his
policy on parliamentary reforms.

'He will be responsible for assisting the Speaker as he seeks to achieve a
consensus on how to move forward on the issue of Members' allowances,' we were
told, in a dollop of jargonese straight out of the New Labour lexicon.

Mr Hames will also apparently help with other parliamentary reforms and 'in the
creation of a broader external role for the Speaker than has previously been
envisaged and in his direct interaction with the media'.

A glorified political batman, in other words.

For 'special adviser' we might as easily read 'policy wonk cum spin doctor'. Why
on earth does he need one? No previous Speaker has found it necessary formally
to employ such a creature.

Most recent occupants of Speaker's House, certainly up to and including Betty
Boothroyd, strove to keep the Chair as free as possible from political
controversy. They made do with a small handful of clerks led by a punctiliously
courteous secretary.

Speaker's House in the old days left one in no doubt as to its desire to remain
unmottled by the controversies of the day.

It is hard to equate that admirable aim with the appointment of Mr Hames, who as
a Times columnist inveighed frequently against the Conservative Party while
cheering loudly for New Labour.

Mr Bercow himself was once a Tory MP, though not a very convincing one towards
the end of his time as a backbencher.

His personal 'political journey', from hard Right-winger to Harman-style
Leftist, has been a cause of major disquiet on all sides of the House, while his
election to the Chair was preceded by an amazingly unsubtle campaign of grade A
sycophancy to Blairish ministers.

Mr Bercow thus went into the Speakership election with the support of maybe just
three Tory MPs, and even those must have found their loyalty tested by the
disclosures that Mr Bercow has already spent 620,000 on renovating his free
accommodation at Speaker's House. Now we have a fresh controversy in the hiring
of a Blairite spin doctor.

Mr Hames will, one presumes, operate under the Cabinet Office's code of conduct
for special advisers. The very first line of that code of conduct states that
special advisers 'add a political dimension to the advice and assistance
available to ministers' (and now Speakers). So much for Mr Bercow's desire to
forego 'permanently' his political preferences.

How political will Mr Hames be? Will he talk about parliamentarians behind their
backs? Will he plot for a certain point of view on parliamentary reforms to
prevail? Will he promote Mr Bercow as a personality? Certainly the Speaker needs
all the help he can get on that score.

Last week, Nigel Farage of the UK Independence Party announced that he intended
to stand against Mr Bercow in his constituency of Buckingham. Mr Farage, whose
policies are probably a lot closer to those of the electors of Buckingham than
politically correct Mr Bercow's, stands a good chance of defeating the Speaker.

In other words, no sooner is he ensconced in High Office than Mr Bercow faces
the possibility of rapid ejection.

Will Mr Hames, this political animal, this state- supplied gofer, be dispatched
to Buckingham to do some ducking and diving? Ministerial special advisers are
permitted to engage in that sort of political work for their employers.

But if Mr Hames follows suit, is there not a danger that the very objectivity of
the Commons Chair could be eroded further by a Speaker who has made a distinctly
spotty start to the job?

When Michael 'Gorbals Mick' Martin announced his departure after nine disastrous
years in the Commons Chair, it seemed that the Speakership could only improve.
There was surely only one way to go, and that was up.

Alas, the appointment of spin doctor Hames by this new, foolish Speaker suggests
that our optimism may have been cruelly misplaced.

Squeaker Bercow is fast proving to be another dud. His defeat in the general
election by Nigel Farage may be our only hope.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 481 words


THE unputdownable diaries of the late archsnob and aesthete James Lees-Milne,
who died in 1997, and the brilliant new biography of him by his friend, Michael
Bloch, are in National Trust bookshops. Lees-Milne was a major figure in the
NT's history. But, before J L-M's death, his diaries were considered too
scandalous for their customers. The current NT chairman is journalist Sir Simon
Jenkins, who talked Tony Blair into building the Millennium Dome. Friends say
he, too, keeps a diary. If so, and it includes details of his bachelor-days
friendship with the beautiful, well-connected wife of an earl, his later
marriage to gorgeous Hollywood actress Gayle Hunnicutt and many other amorous
adventures, the NT bookshop might have another flying-offtheshelves book.

NOVELIST Rachel Johnson, 43, pictured, has always competed with her brother,
London's publicityprone mayor Boris Johnson, 45. So, she's decided to be filmed
by TV taking on her new job as editor of The Lady. But is it ladylike?

THE perennially-tanned Hollywood star George Hamilton, 70, attributes his
success with the opposite sex to his priapic, society bandleader father, George
'Spike' Hamilton, who told him 'the secret stuff you need to know about women'.
Such as: 'The three Fs. You have to feed them every day. **** them every day.
And fight them every day.' George has been married only once, to Alana Collins,
from 1972 to 1975. She married Rod Stewart in 1979 but returned for a time to
George o' the 3Fs in the mid-1990s.

CURIOUS, isn't it, that Gordon Brown and his wife, Sarah, weren't photographed
while at Balmoral? The bored-looking Blairs were pictured at a Braemar
Gathering, seemingly an ordeal for host and guests. Prime ministers - especially
Labour ones - don't relish looking subservient in the royal presence. Neither
does the monarch enjoy being patronised by their reluctant presence. Why
continue with this farce?

THE Speaker, John Bercow, and his new spin doctor, former leader writer of The
Times, Tim Hames, are close politically,

i.e. New Labour, as well as in stature - the pair both stand at around 5ft 5in
and could audition as human backdrops for France's thrusting, Hobbit-like
President Sarkozy. They're described as 'a cruet set' but fans hope this
delicate ornament isn't smashed to smithereens by UKIP's convivial Nigel Farage,
who is standing against Bercow in his Buckingham seat.

NOVELIST Sebastian Faulks, 56, whose new book, A Week In December, features a
Premiership football star as one of its characters, 'researched' part of the
tome with Harrods' boss Mohamed al Fayed's manager at Fulham FC, Roy Hodgson.
Grammar schoolboy Hodgson, 62, is no gum-chewing Sir Alex Ferguson. He speaks
five languages and is prone to quote Irish-American writer J.P. Donleavy. He and
feisty Mohamed no doubt talk about literary giants late into the night.

E-mail: ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

MR SPEAKER HIRES CRONY AS 6100,000 SPIN CHIEF

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY POLITICAL REPORTER

LENGTH: 296 words


COMMONS Speaker John Bercow caused outrage yesterday after hiring 'crony' Tim
Hames as his 6107,000 a year spin chief.

The PR guru and ex-Times journalist advised Mr Bercow during his campaign to
become Speaker in June and will be paid out of taxpayers' money to work as Mr
Bercow's personal 'special adviser'. He was hired without anyone else being
interviewed.

Sources close to the Speaker, who pledged to clean up the Commons in the wake of
the MPs' expenses scandal, said Mr Hames would help turn the historic post of
Speaker into that of 'ambassador' for Parliament.

But opponents fear that Mr Hames would be paid public money to act as a
'firewall' to deflect criticism.

Mark Wallace, campaigns director for the TaxPayers' Alliance, called Mr Hames a
'personally-appointed crony', while Conservative MP Nadine Dorries said: 'I am
concerned that he is being paid 6107,000 from the public purse simply to protect
Speaker Bercow's back. There is a danger this could be seen as jobs for the
boys.'

The appointment has already raised accusations of cronyism. Mr Hames is director
of communications for the British Venture Capital Association (BVCA). Four days
after becoming Speaker, Mr Bercow made a speech at a Westminster drinks
reception for BVCA clients.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage, who last week announced he would run against Mr Bercow in
his Buckingham constituency at the next general election, warned Mr Hames 'not
to overstep the mark' and support Mr Bercow's campaign. He said: 'Regulations
state only ministers should have taxpayerfunded special advisers. We need an
assurance Mr Hames will not stray into electoral politics.'

It is the first time a Commons Speaker has taken on a special adviser who can
undertake political activity. Mr Hames will take up the post in November.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

You pay for Speaker's pounds 100,000-a-year spin doctor

BYLINE: James Kirkup Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 663  words


JOHN BERCOW, the Speaker who promised to clean up Parliament after the MPs'
expenses scandal, has hired a personal spin doctor at taxpayers' expense even
though he already has a team of spokesmen and media advisers.

Tim Hames will be paid up to   pounds 107,000 a year as a "special adviser''.
Among his duties will be raising Mr Bercow's personal profile. The House of
Commons already employs several press officers and media advisers whose duties
include representing the Speaker.

It is the first time a Speaker has employed a "special adviser,'' a title used
for politically appointed aides to Cabinet ministers.

Mr Bercow replaced Michael Martin, who also faced repeated criticism over his
use of public money, in June. During his election campaign, Mr Bercow promised a
"clean break'' with the past and said he would restore Parliament's reputation
after The Daily Telegraph disclosed details of MPs' expenses claims.

Mr Bercow has faced questions about his own claims. He "flipped'' the
designation of his second home between London and his constituency when he sold
two houses in the space of a year, enabling him to avoid paying capital gains
tax on the profits from either sale. He denied any wrongdoing, but said he would
pay  pounds 6,508 plus VAT to HM Revenue & Customs.

As Speaker, Mr Bercow has almost complete autonomy over his use of taxpayers'
money. The Telegraph disclosed last month that is he is having his lavish
grace-and-favour apartment in the Palace of Westminster refurbished at a cost of
pounds 20,000 to the taxpayer.

Mr Bercow is understood to have appointed Mr Hames, a former Times journalist
and spokesman for the venture capital industry, without interviewing other
candidates.

News of his appointment emerged late on Monday, hours after David Cameron
announced that he was demoting Alan Duncan from the shadow cabinet over his
comments on MPs' expenses.

Before Mr Hames's appointment, the House of Commons media and

communication service comprised 11 staff. Six are employed to promote the work
of Commons select committees while the other five deal with wider Commons
business, for which Mr Bercow is ultimately responsible.

Salaries of Commons spokesmen are not usually published, but job advertisements
show some posts have been offered at salaries of between  pounds 30,000 and
pounds 40,000. Mr Bercow's office confirmed that Mr Hames will start work in
November. He will be paid as a "Grade 1'' special adviser, with a salary of
between  pounds 87,000 and  pounds 107,000 a year.

Mr Hames's duties will include the creation of a "broader external role for the
Speaker''. He will also help Mr Bercow frame the Commons response to plans for
new expenses rules, which are being drawn up by Sir Christopher Kelly, the
chairman of the committee on standards in public life.

Susie Squire, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said Mr Hames's appointment called Mr
Bercow's reforming credentials into question. She said: "Previous Speakers have
managed perfectly well with a civil servant as their spokesman and this role
will be a new one on top of existing PR and media relations posts.

"I find it staggering that, at a time when people are feeling the pinch and
think the cost of Parliament should be drastically reduced, Mr Bercow has seen
fit to award such a high-level salary for this position.''

By parliamentary tradition, a Speaker is above party politics and is re-elected
uncontested to his constituency.

However, Nigel Farage, the Ukip MEP, announced last week that he would break
that convention by running against Mr Bercow in his Buckingham seat at the next
general election, campaigning against the Speaker because of his expenses
claims.

A Commons spokesman said Mr Hames's appointment was justified.

She said: "The House media and communication service works to promote better
public understanding of the work of the House. Tim Hames will be employed as a
special adviser to the Speaker. He will be advising the Speaker on a wider range
of issues.''

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

Weak leadership is a damaging disease - and it's catching;
As the day of reckoning looms, Labour has lost any concept of the national
interest, says Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1210  words


We know that the British public holds the political class in more contempt than
ever, and it did not take the expenses scandal to reach that pass. Turnout has
slumped over the past three general elections. The rise of the BNP, Ukip and the
Greens displays the search for alternatives to three main parties that are seen
as institutionalised in their careerist, self-serving approach to politics. With
another election due within nine months, our democracy looks unattractive.

Even so, the Prime Minister contrives day after day to make things worse: and
his cronies and fellow ministers contrive to follow and support him in this
decline of reputation and standards. Not since 1992, and the debacle of Black
Wednesday, can one remember a time when the credibility of a government
collapsed so rapidly and so utterly during a long summer recess as over the past
three weeks. Had the Westminster village been full, one wonders whether Mr Brown
would at last have met his downfall.

The mess of the release of the Libyan bomber, the cesspit of who said what to
whom, when and in what context, has exposed a government without scruple,
principle or much intelligence, and has confirmed that it is in a state of
near-complete incoherence. There is no surer mark of a government in meltdown
than that it loses the ability to lie properly. Last week David Miliband, the
Foreign Secretary, went on the wireless to say that the Government had not
wanted the Libyan bomber to die in jail. On Monday Ed Balls, the increasingly
unlovely Schools Secretary, told John Humphrys on the Today programme that no
one in the Government wanted the bomber's release. In that contest,
incidentally, one instinctively knows whom to believe.

It is an obvious point, but one had better make it none the less: this is about
leadership. Often, in his career as Chancellor, Mr Brown did his Macavity act.
It was easy, if unedifying, for him. The economy was (so he claimed) going well.
The embarrassments for the Government were elsewhere - party funding, the NHS,
constitutional reform, and above all our involvement in foreign wars. So
although one tended to expect the second most important man in the
administration to have a view on these questions, and to be there in support of
the Prime Minister when the knives were unsheathed, one was inevitably
disappointed. Soon, one came no longer to expect it. Moral cowardice and not the
moral compass became the defining feature of Mr Brown.

None the less, his party elected him nemine contradicente as leader, and he
became Prime Minister; and, without any surprise at all, he proceeded to
demonstrate a disappointing consistency. There has been one subtle shift:
whereas in the past the silence was interminable, now (perhaps in recognition of
the higher duties of a prime minister) it is broken two or three weeks into a
crisis, with a stumbling assertion of sentiments that may or may not be honestly
held. We have seen this in the Libyan episode. Such a procedure makes the Prime
Minister look weak, ineffectual, in a corner. In the interim the media will have
savaged him. His colleagues, pressed by the likes of Mr Humphrys in broadcast
interviews, will to some extent have gone freelance. Their advisers, briefing
the press, will also have gone freelance, quite probably in a different
direction.

The people whom Labour purports to govern will increasingly feel (as most of us
already do) a sense of disgust, depression, embarrassment and loathing. We have
every right to come to the conclusion that whatever the challenges time and
chance provide to the present Government, it will foul them up. The Great
Miracle Of The Economic Rescue ("We have saved the world'') has left us
earlobe-deep in debt, almost the last developed country to come out of
recession, with internationally credible economic analysts telling Mr Brown that
he was wrong, wrong, wrong. Our standing in the world, for this and for more
conventional diplomatic reasons, has plummeted. Our chief ally despises us. One
moment one thing is being briefed; the next, another. There is no control. And
there is no control because there is no leadership.

This is not simply the private grief of the Labour Party; this affects us all. I
shudder at the thought of the damage this incapable, incompetent, nail-bitten
man can do to our country between now and next spring when, short of a repeal of
the Quinquennial Act, he must call an election. His disease, though, is
catching. Leadership is about taking decisions (Gouverner, c'est choisir, as
Mendès-France put it) and it is also about ensuring that people know the
direction in which they are being led. Our very detailed poll about attitudes to
the Conservative Party, which we published on Monday, showed that about two
thirds of the country regard Mr Cameron and his "policies'' as largely unknown.
Nor is Mr Cameron that decisive. If Alan Duncan deserved to be demoted - as by
his own admission he did - then why did it take the best part of a month from
his perceived fault to do it?

When you are as obsessed with image and with perceptions as Mr Cameron and his
henchmen are, no decision is easy. A focus group has to be consulted, or quite
possibly more than one. A judgment has to be made not about what is right or
wrong but about which faction, or minority, or special interest group will be
obliged or disobliged by any shift of policy or personnel. The principle is to
have no principles, except to be entirely reactive: and that is the cancer that
now spreads through our politics.

In Mr Brown's case, he is handicapped by having emasculated the Civil Service.
In the past, weak leaders, or those prone to spasmodic displays of weak
leadership, could be bolstered by fine and experienced minds steeped in the best
mandarin traditions of the governing elite. Now, those traditions have made way
for political placemen who put words into politicians' mouths and opinions into
their minds, replacing conviction and instinct with manufactured read-outs of
what will or will not play in the country. The state we are now in reflects what
happens when such people are allowed to take over the formation of policy, and
of day-to-day political tactics. I wish I could believe a Conservative
government would be different, but I can't.

As it faces a reckoning, Labour ceases to have any concept of the national
interest. Its only focus is on personal survival. The best leaders - the only
people worthy of the term - put a higher interest before their own. There is
scarcely a trace of that in the present Government. The internet is awash with
rumours about Mr Brown's health, both mental and physical. Not being his doctor,
I have no idea whether they are true. Apparently, some Labour candidates are
already closely eyeing up his parliamentary seat, convinced (wrongly, I imagine)
that he will not even fight the next election.

Certainly, he should withdraw now for all sorts of reasons, public as well as
private, for to almost everyone but himself, it seems, his failure to lead is
apparent and absolute. The electorate has been desperately ill-served by him. Mr
Cameron has a different sort of arrogance, one that suggests he has nothing to
learn. If he studies Mr Brown, he will see, on the contrary, that he does

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

The Speaker should be above using spin

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 446  words


In the speech to the House of Commons that put his case for the Speakership,
John Bercow said: "I do not want to be someone; I want to do something.'' An
admirable sentiment. But does it really square with a decision, now that the
post is won, to hire a spin doctor at  pounds 100,000 a year, even though he
already had the services of two press officers? Such an appointment can only be
motivated by a desire to burnish Mr Bercow's own image (at the expense of the
taxpayer), when it is Parliament's image that matters. The Speaker said his
candidacy to become the First Commoner represented a "clean break'' with the
venality this newspaper uncovered at Westminster. Sadly, it looks like business
as usual.

From the start, the omens were poor. On the day of his election, Mr Bercow made
much of the fact that he would not be claiming the second-home allowance. Given
that he was about to move in to a luxurious grace-and-favour apartment in the
Palace of Westminster, that was hardly an act of great self-sacrifice. Nor had
he emerged with credit from our investigation: we revealed that he had
"flipped'' the designation of his second home between London and his Buckingham
constituency when he sold two houses in the space of a year, so lawfully
avoiding the payment of capital gains tax on either sale (he later made a
voluntary payment to the taxman). Not only were his credentials for being a "new
broom'' to lead the cleansing of the Commons suspect, but he won the election
because Labour MPs decided, quite cynically, to support him because he was so
unpopular within his own party. One should never underestimate the level of
childishness of which the House of Commons is capable.

Now, Mr Bercow's decision to hire a personal spin doctor has confirmed our worst
fears. The Speaker of the Commons must not only be above party but also be the
servant of the House. The better he does the job, the less he will be noticed.
These sound principles of the Speakership are all undermined by this
appointment. The Speaker's "image'' should be created by the way he chairs the
proceedings of the House - as Betty Boothroyd, Bernard Weatherill and George
Thomas all triumphantly demonstrated.

While there is no suggestion that this appointment is connected with the
decision by Nigel Farage of Ukip to challenge Mr Bercow at the general election,
the truth is that Mr Farage is a formidable campaigner and Mr Bercow may fear
for his seat. But if he were to believe that reaching for the services of a
highly paid spin doctor to bolster his personal image was the way to rebuff such
a challenge, he would be confirming that he was too callow a figure for the high
office he holds.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 9, 2009 Wednesday 5:34 PM GMT

The Brits should keep their nose out of Ireland's business - and vice versa

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 552 words


Blogging has been light of late, as I've been in the old country, where every
Irish street lamp, pole and tree has a placard asking people to vote on the
Lisbon Treaty, a process that is both a wonderful tribute to democracy and also
a display of its stupidity ("It's simple - we're safer with Europe", as one
ridiculous slogan goes).

There seem to be about ten times as many Yes posters dotted around, hardly
surprising when the Yes campaign is supported by Fine Gael, Fianna Fil, Labour
and the Greens - in other words the entire political establishment, plus the
media and business.

The No campaign, on the other hand, is a rogue's gallery of losers and
murderers, comprising the ultra-Catholics, the socialists and Sinn Fein. Into
this unlikely alliance have stepped our very own UKIP, who are hoping that
Ireland will vote the same way they did last year and throw the treaty out.

Nigel Farage, in Ireland as de facto leader of the British independence movement
(who would have thought it?), has even ruffled a few feathers by suggesting that
the 1916 Easter Rising rebels would have voted No.

Eoin Ryan, a Fianna Fail politician and grandson of a 1916 veteran, called it
"outrageous". He said:

"My grandfather, James Ryan, was the medical attendant in the GPO in 1916 and
when I was young I heard him and other survivors from Easter Week talk about
creation of what is now the European Union.

"Sean Lemass believed in the need for Ireland to enter into the EEC to help
break the UK's economic hold on our country. So it is very rich for a UK
nationalist to be telling Ireland what is in our interests."

The point is not that it's offensive, but historically pointless, as no one can
say what a historical figure might think about a current issue. Besides which,
the Irish socialists have James Connolly and Patrick Pearse on their posters,
asking why they died for Ireland's independence just to be swallowed by the
European Union, so it's a valid enough point.

But aside from the fact that someone with an English accent telling the Irish to
do one thing will inevitably lead to them doing the opposite, it's no
Englishman's business what the Irish do with their democracy, just as its no
business of any Irishman or continental European what the English do with
theirs.

Mr Ryan was, until June, a member of the European Parliament, a body that makes
the majority of Britain's law, so he's hardly blameless in the "sticking one's
nose into other people's business" department. And at least UKIP do not ask the
Irish to pay for their mission to Dublin, unlike in Britain, where taxpayers
have to fork out 200m a year to have pro-Brussels propaganda thrown back at us.
Now that really is outrageous.

My great-grandmother was a founding member of Sinn Fin, although she never
claimed to have anything to do with the Easter Rising, unlike the estimated
80,000 men who stumbled out of the GPO (about 300 went in). I didn't know her
and can't say how she'd vote, but any Irish person from her day and age would
surely find it funny that the Brits now find themselves a province. She was
attracted by the organisation's Gaelic name - "We Ourselves", or sometimes
translated as "Ourselves Alone" - and much as we don't like the organisation it
later became, many on this side of the Irish Sea might agree with the sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

Speaker Bercow appoints ex-journalist as special adviser

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Hames hired to deal with media during aftermath of recommendations on MPs'
expenses

FULL TEXT

John Bercow, the Speaker of the Commons, has appointed a former journalist as a
special adviser on a salary that could be worth up to £107,000.

Tim Hames, the former chief leader writer of the Times, has been hired by Bercow
to deal with the media during the aftermath of recommendations on MPs' expenses
made by Sir Christopher Kelly, the chairman of the committee on standards in
public life.

Hames will be a grade one status special adviser, paid between £87,000 and
£107,000 a year. It is thought to be the first time a Speaker has taken on a
staff member with that title.

Hames told the Press Association he would start work on 2 November and would
spend about a third of his time dealing with the media.

Kelly intends to publish his final proposals on MPs' expenses in October. Hames
said: "The house's reputation is not what we would like it to be; I'm making the
case that, despite all that has happened over the last few months, parliament is
a good thing."

He will initially take on the role as a "short-term arrangement" until next
summer.

Hames said he was probably not the first special adviser to a Commons Speaker,
but the first one whose role had been formalised.

"I'm absolutely sure that past Speakers have had someone act as an informal
adviser in their staff," he said.

He will step down as head of communications for the British Venture Capital
Association, a lobby group, at the end of October.

A Commons spokeswoman said Hames would help Bercow in his role as an "ambassador
for parliament".

Bercow was keen to promote parliament as much as possible and Hames would be
aiding him in an "outreach" programme for local communities and schools, she
said.

Bercow, the MP for Buckingham, was elected Commons Speaker in June, giving up
his Tory allegiance according to tradition.

Last week, Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party, announced he
would stand against him in Buckingham at the next general election.

By convention, Speakers remain politically neutral and the main parties do not
field candidates in their constituencies.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 8, 2009 Tuesday 6:18 PM GMT

Speaker Bercow risks encouraging the UKIP vote

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 321 words


The Speaker is above party politics and enjoys the support of a private staff as
well as some of the finest constitutional brains in the land. He has all the
help he needs. So John Bercow's decision to give himself a special adviser is at
first glance startling. He has hired Tim Hames, formerly a columnist on the
Times, who is said to have played a major role behind the scenes in Mr Bercow's
campaign for the post. Mr Hames starts in November and will earn "up to"
107,000, although it is likely to be significantly less as he's doing it
part-time. For some reason, his contract runs until next summer.

His decision sits badly with the theme of David Cameron's important speech
today. The Tory leader wants to cut the cost of Parliament, not increase it, and
thinks there are far too many politicians and their creatures at Westminster to
begin with. To judge by the conversations I've had there is some hollow laughter
in Team Dave HQ at seeing their former "colleague" grab more taxpayer cash. If
Nigel Farage wanted something to bang on about in Buckingham, this is it.

Is there a case for what Mr Bercow has done? His predecessor had a heck of a
time with the media, and there is no doubt the Commons authorities have shown
themselves to be capable of serious ineptitude when it comes to handling the
mess of expenses. So maybe he does need a specialist to advise him. But the
likely reason for his appointment must be his explicit promise in his campaign
to open up the Speakership to the outside world. He wants to visit schools and
give interviews, all things Michael Martin avoided. By coincidence, it has been
announced today that Mr Bercow will give a speech in a fortnight to the Hansard
Society. His theme? "Parliamentary Reform: The route form here to there" It's a
bit of a revolution to have a speech from a Speaker. But I'm not sure the route
to reform goes via appointing a chum without any apparent open process.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP rocked by Brussels whistleblower's resignation

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 632 words


The high-profile Brussels whistleblower who became the treasurer of UKIP has
stormed out of her new post and blown the whistle again - over the anti-EU
party's financial decisions.

Marta Andreasen, who achieved notoriety when she was sacked as chief accountant
of the European Commission for exposing the appalling state of EU accounts, was
appointed treasurer of UKIP in 2007 to "restore faith" in the party's finances.

Her appointment was seen as a huge coup for the party, but her resignation is
likely to unsettle donors, not least Stuart Wheeler the gambling millionaire,
who was expelled by the Tories for giving UKIP £100,000 for the European
elections. He cited Mrs Andreasen as a key reason for his switching allegiance.

Mrs Andreasen told party leaders she was quitting during an executive meeting
where she pointed the finger at Paul Nuttall, the party chairman, for pushing
through decisions she could not support. "I resigned because I disagree with how
the party is being managed at the level of the chairmanship," Mrs Andreasen told
The Times.

"There have been certain breaches in the procedures that I have implemented,
therefore I warned the NEC [National Executive Committee] this is not the way I
want to handle the finances of the party.

"I do not want to see funds being wasted, and the management of this party needs
to wake up," she added.

Her departure comes as an embarrassment for UKIP as it enjoys a wave of support
with 13 MEPs, including Mrs Andreasen, returned during the European elections in
June. The party came second ahead of Labour.

It also exposes deep internal tensions as the party embarks upon a leadership
campaign to replace Nigel Farage. The charismatic figurehead is stepping down to
concentrate on Brussels and his own general election challenge to Speaker Bercow
in Buckingham.

Mr Nuttall, an MEP in the North West, is seen as a possible replacement for Mr
Farage. However, Mrs Andreasen said that the last straw came when Mr Nuttall
wanted to double the salary of an official without her approval.

Mr Nuttall said last night that the salary decision had the full backing of the
NEC. He admitted that he had a different working style to Mrs Andreasen but
insisted that they would continue to work together for the benefit of the party.

"Let's get one thing perfectly clear. I am the party chairman. I get paid to
make decisions," he said. "If those decisions do not work then it is my head on
the chopping block.

"Marta and I have different methods of working, however I do not have a problem
with Marta and Marta does not have a problem with me."

Mr Nuttall said that he was still considering whether to run for party leader.

Mr Wheeler said in March that "as the unimpeachable Marta Andreasen, the EU's
chief accountant, sacked for exposing incompetence and fraud in the EU, has
pointed out, our own scandal here [Westminster MPs' expenses] is nothing
compared to the EU gravy train. She is now the treasurer of UKIP, and one of
many reasons for voting for them."

Mrs Andreasen, who will remain a UKIP MEP in the South East, was sacked by the
European Commission in 2004 after revealing her concerns about accounting
standards.

Lord Kinnock, who was then the Commission's vice-president, accused her of
"disloyalty and breach of trust" for telling MEPs her concerns.

She added: "I have increased the trust of the [UKIP] donors and this can be seen
in the financial position of the party today which is the best it has been for
years. I am committed to the party but I think that the party needs to
understand that it has to be a more mature organisation.

"We do not have the funds that the Conservatives or Labour have so we need to
make very good use of the funds we do have."

Online

Read Sam Coates's blog on Westminster, politics and spin
timesonline.co.uk/redbox

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage with Marta Andreasen, who will continue as an MEP
EDDIE MULHOLLAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Whistleblower quits

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 49 words


The whistleblower who was dismissed for exposing the EU's chaotic finances, then
joined UKIP as treasurer, has resigned because of her concerns about the party's
financial affairs. Marta Andreasen accused Paul Nuttall, the UKIP chairman, of
pushing through decisions that she could not support.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Brown too meek to attack Tories' harsh message, says Labour MP

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 533  words


GORDON BROWN is "meekly'' accepting defeat and could face a "catastrophic'' loss
at the next election, a leading Labour MP will say this week.

Jon Cruddas, who has been touted as a possible new Labour leader, is to attack
the party's big names for failing to expose the Conservatives for their
increasingly "harsher'' message.

Mr Cruddas, the MP for Dagenham, was loyal to Mr Brown when other Labour figures
used last summer to try to unseat the Prime Minister.

But his criticism is indicative of how patience among Labour MPs is now wearing
thin.

He warns the Prime Minister that he has only months to get a new message in
place that can turn round Labour's fortunes.

He says: "Otherwise, we will go down to a catastrophic defeat and deserve to.''

On Saturday The Daily Telegraph reported that MPs returning from their summer
break were talking about how Mr Brown could be replaced as leader after the
Labour conference later this month.

Mr Cruddas will tell an audience at the Left-wing Compass group tomorrow:
"Progressive conservatism hit a wall as soon as the economic storm clouds rolled
in and appears to have been dropped in favour of a harsher, nastier Thatcherism.

"But presented with this golden opportunity to galvanise ourselves and unite
behind a cleat anti-Tory message we seem paralysed; afraid of using our Labour
principles as a basis to lay bare the shallowness of Cameron's project

"We seem to be meekly accepting defeat, unable to show what we believe in.''

Labour MPs fear that the party's conference in Brighton is unlikely to provide
the boost Mr Brown's allies expect.

If David Cameron bolsters his own standing when he addresses the Tory faithful

a week later, there will be renewed pressure on Mr Brown to consider his

position.

Alan Johnson, the Home Secretary, is the favourite to take over if Mr Brown did
step down. However, Mr Cruddas is likely to be positioning himself for the
post-election leadership battle that would follow a Labour defeat.

His trenchant criticisms are directed entirely at the party's inability to craft
a message that appeals to voters rather than a personal attack on Mr Brown.

Longer term that is likely to stand him in good stead among those Labour
members, unions and MPs who will decide the party's next leader.

One suggestion has been that he teams up with James Purnell to form a leadership
"dream ticket''. But that was before Mr Purnell resigned from the Cabinet with a
withering attack on Mr Brown's ability as prime minister.

Instead, Mr Cruddas may form an alliance with Harriet Harman who will be a
front-runner in any contest to replace Mr Brown.

*Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, has claimed the "vast
majority'' of Conservatives support his policy on Europe.

He told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show that most Conservative Party members "really
think like UKIP'', which is supporting a withdrawal from the EU.

However, he added that the Tory leadership would "rather not discuss Europe''.

Mr Farage is running against John Bercow, the Commons Speaker at the next
election.

He announced his candidacy for the Buckingham constituency last week, also
saying that he would stand down as UKIP leader later this year to focus on the
task.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Receipts to show tax for Brussels

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 292  words


ALL shopping and petrol station receipts in Britain could in future include the
amount of VAT or fuel duty that went directly to Brussels.

José Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, told The Daily Telegraph
that the idea of an "EU tax'' would be discussed this autumn as part of a
rethink about how European funding was collected. There would be "no taboos'',
with every option left on the table for discussion, he said.

Mr Barroso said that under the proposals "EU and national VAT should appear as
separate taxes on invoices or receipts'' every time consumers made a purchase,
bought fuel or paid for an airline ticket.

"We will come with our financial review and we will debate without taboos,'' he
said.

Mr Barroso emphasised that proposals for the EU's "own resources'', controlled
by the commission and collected across Europe, would not mean a new tax burden.
Instead, it would earmark a certain percentage of existing consumer taxes for EU
expenditure, set to be  pounds 121 billion next year. "We should have some way
to address own resources,'' he said.

"That does not necessarily mean speaking about new taxes for Europe.''

Officials hope that listing an EU tax on receipts would make funding more
"transparent'' to the public.

"The proposal reflects the nature of the EU as a union of member states and
citizens by clarifying the link between the taxpayer and the EU budget,'' said a
senior official.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, suggested that the move
would drive British voters further from Europe.

"He is really out of touch if he thinks it will be popular to alert people to
the fact that they have just made a cash contribution to the EU every time they
go shopping,'' he said.

"Thank you, Mr Barroso.''

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Uproar over BNP on Question Time;
LEADER

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: LEADER; 15

LENGTH: 414  words


THE BBC came under fire yesterday after confirming it was preparing to invite
British National Party leader Nick Griffin to appear on Question Time.

Critics hit out after corporation chiefs decided the far-Right party deserves
more air time.

The BBC says the party has demonstrated "electoral support at national level".

It is expected that Griffin, who was elected to the European Parliament in June,
could be on Question Time as early as next month.

But the move could lead to politicians from mainstream parties boycotting the
show.

MPs fear the BNP will use the platform to promote a racist agenda.

One unnamed Cabinet minister has already said he would refuse to sit alongside
Griffin or any other BNP representative on the flagship panel show.

Last night John Mann, Labour chairman of the cross-party antiSemitic group,
said: "It's absurd to give the BNP any space. This is how Hitler came to power
and these people have the same objectives. It's typical BBC intellectualism
giving them air time."

The change of policy has also set alarm bells ringing within the corporation.

One senior correspondent said:

"It's barmy. . . public servants can be sacked for membership of the BNP and yet
the BBC wants to give them air time with the main political parties."

Anti-fascist magazine Searchlight said it had evidence of senior BNP officials
bragging how they refused to buy a TV licence and urging other members not to
pay theirs. Publisher Gerry Gable said: "They say they are not going to pay
their licence fees to a BBC controlled by the reds yet they want to appear on
Question Time." Yesterday it was claimed the BBC had forced Labour to consider
its policy of not sharing the same platform with the BNP.

The BBC's chief political adviser Ric Bailey said: "We often have discussions
with people about who else is on the panel, but no parties can dictate who
should or shouldn't be included."

A BBC spokesman added: "The BBC is obliged to treat all political parties
registered with the Electoral Commission and operating within the law with due
impartiality. By winning representation in the European Parliament, the BNP has
demonstrated evidence of electoral support at a national level. This will be
reflected in the coverage it receives on BBC programmes such as Question Time.
That is consistent with the approach taken at previous elections, for instance,
when UKIP and the Greens won European seats."

BNP spokesman John Walker said: "We are pleased the BBC is abiding by its own
rules."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
LEADER

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: LEADER; 15

LENGTH: 106  words


WITH Commons Speaker John Bercow facing a challenge from former UK Independence
Party leader Nigel Farage at the general election, it seems he would be unwise
to count on the support of his local Tory colleagues.

I'm told a number of Conservative members in Bercow's Buckingham seat are
already talking of backing Farage when next year's election campaign comes
around.

Bercow has long had his enemies in the Tory ranks, and was recently voted in as
Commons Speaker largely courtesy of Labour MPs.

"John obviously has his critics in the party, so Farage can certainly look
forward to support from some local Tory members, " one insider told me.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Leading article: Small parties: Thinking big

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 449 words


The Guardian's most recent ICM poll showed the Conservatives on 41%, Labour on
25% and the Liberal Democrats on 19%. Do you notice anything unusual about those
figures? No, they are not out of line with polls by other companies. But there
is something unusual nevertheless. They only add up to 85%.

Thirteen years ago, with the 1997 general election still nine months away, the
equivalent figure was very different. Back in August 1996, the three main
parties accounted for fully 97% of the total in that month's ICM poll. Nine
months before the 2001 general election the figure was also very high, at 95%.
Even five years ago, at the same stage of the electoral cycle, the three parties
still collected 91%.

Something is going on here - and that something is the rise of the small
parties. In the space of just 13 years the parties that normally get lumped
together in the "Others" column by the pollsters have gone from 3% to 14% (in
case you are wondering, the latest ICM figure for these parties is 14%, not 15%,
because of rounding up and down to eliminate decimal points). Overall, though,
it is a big and significant change. In the European parliament elections in June
"Others" even came top of the whole poll, with 42% of the total; the three main
parties only managed 58% between them, a record low. The truth is that British
electoral politics is no longer just a two- or even a three-party system (four
in Scotland and Wales). It is increasingly a multi-party system everywhere. Get
used to it.

As the general election nears, the small parties will face a familiar squeeze.
When polling day comes, they will do well to match the current 14%. But there is
no sign of them disappearing back into the margins, as the big three parties
would like. This strength has its regret table sides (as illustrated by
yesterday's report that the odious BNP may be invited onto Question Time) but it
is undeniable. The low reputation of established politics has hurt all the big
parties, including the Lib Dems, who are no longer seen as outsiders. As a
result, the small parties of the right, the left and the nations, and the
single-issue parties, are all prospering as never before. This autumn party
conference season, their conferences - Ukip and the Greens last week, Plaid
Cymru this week - matter too.

This growth of support is unlikely to produce many more minor-party MPs,
especially in England. But the minor parties may run the bigger ones close in
several places. Strong performances by Ukip, the BNP, the Greens and the others
will shape the results in hundreds of seats. All this is happening under a
first-past-the-post system. Imagine what might happen under a fairer electoral
system.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

National: BNP welcomes BBC's Question Time ruling: Broadcaster to allow leader
Griffin to appear on show: Decision follows success in European election

BYLINE: Sam Jones and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 532 words


The British National party has welcomed the BBC's decision to allow its leader,
Nick Griffin, to appear on Question Time following the far-right party's success
in the European elections.

Although the BBC has yet to issue a formal invitation, the corporation is
preparing to ask Griffin to join the panel show and is consulting other parties
about appearing with him.

The party, which won two seats in the European parliament in June, has not
appeared on the programme before. Some parties, including Labour, have
previously refused to share a platform with it because of its policies on race.
A spokesman for the BNP said yesterday: "Obviously it's good news. Of late, a
large proportion of Question Time has been devoted to assaults on the BNP, so
it's rather welcome that we are allowed to defend ourselves."

He attacked the Labour party over its past refusal to share a stage with its
members and accused the government of using its equality watchdog to attack the
BNP.

Referring to the Equality and Human Rights Commission's decision to take the BNP
to court over its constitution - which states that only "'indigenous Caucasian
and defined 'ethnic groups' emanating from that race" are allowed to join - he
said: "If anybody has an excuse for not sharing a platform with a political
party, it should be us and the Labour party, but we believe in the democratic
process."

After years of discussions, the BBC is understood to have decided in February
that the BNP would have to be allowed to appear on Question Time if it attracted
significant support in the European elections. Other smaller parties elected to
the European parliament, such as the Green party and Ukip, have been
represented.

A BBC spokeswoman said it was obliged to treat all legal political parties
registered with the Electoral Commission with due impartiality. "Our audiences -
and the electorate - will make up their own minds about the different policies
offered by elected politicians," she said.

A Labour party spokesman said the BBC's decision had forced it to review its
position of never sharing a platform with the BNP, while the Conservatives said
they would treat Griffin's appearance on Question Time like "any other
programme" and would ensure a senior Tory was present to counter his arguments.

"We have seen the BNP do well in areas where people haven't been prepared to
tackle them and now they are elected we have got to face up to that reality,"
said a Conservative spokesman.

A Liberal Democrat spokesman said: "If they're being given the opportunity to
debate, then we will appear with them and do our best to argue against them
vigorously and to shut out their support."

One anti-fascist group has already said it will stage a demonstration outside
Broadcasting House this week to protest against the BBC's decision. Weyman
Bennett from Unite Against Fascism accused the corporation of being "complacent
and naive" by treating the BNP as a "normal political party". He said: "We will
send the BBC a letter saying that it's not legitimate to give them a platform of
respectability when they have a policy of discriminating against people on
grounds of race."

Peter Preston, page 30 >=

Leader comment, page 32 >=

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Labour U-turn over confronting BNP in 'Question Time' debate;
Party may field Cabinet heavyweight to challenge far-right leader

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 515 words


A SENIOR Labour figure will go head to head in a debate with Nick Griffin, the
leader of the BNP, after the party dropped its opposition to sharing a platform
with the far-right.

Labour's change of tack came after BBC 1 announced it was preparing to invite Mr
Griffin on to Question Time for the first time this autumn. Explaining the move,
the broadcaster said it was bound by rules requiring it to treat all properly
registered political parties with "due impartiality".

Its decision left Labour with a dilemma as it has traditionally refused to
appear alongside the BNP on the grounds it would give legitimacy to the party's
views on race. However, there is a growing feeling within senior Labour ranks
that simply ignoring the BNP has enabled Mr Griffin's party to portray itself as
outside the traditional political system. Many of the areas where the BNP has
broken through, such as Burnley, Stoke and Barking, had been previously
dominated by Labour.

Labour yesterday announced it was reviewing its policy of not engaging with the
BNP - but made clear it would field a representative if Mr Griffin appeared on
Question Time. A party source said there would be no question of Labour being
represented by an "empty chair" under those circumstances.

Labour is likely to want a party heavyweight, such as a Cabinet minister, to
appear, but said it would not force anyone to sit alongside Mr Griffin if they
objected. Both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats have said they would
debate with the BNP leader on the basis that his views have to be taken on. The
Tories maintain there is evidence that the BNP fares less well in areas where
its policies are challenged by mainstream parties.

Question Time has been wrestling with whether to invite the party on to the
programme since June, when two BNP candidates, including Mr Griffin, were
elected to the European Parliament. It also has a member on the Greater London
Assembly and this year also won its first seats on county councils.
Representatives of other minority parties, such as the Greens, Ukip and Respect,
have regularly appeared on Question Time.

Mr Griffin - whose party won 6.3 per cent at the European elections - has
already been interviewed on BBC 1's Andrew Marr Show and Radio 4's Today
programme. Ric Bailey, the BBC's chief political adviser, said: "We are in talks
with the parties on Question Time that could feature Nick Griffin. It is worth
noting that we often have discussions with people about who else is on the
panel, but no parties can dictate who should or shouldn't be included."

The invitation is understood to have been approved by Mark Byford, the BBC's
deputy director-general.

A BBC spokesman said: "Due impartiality is achieved both by ensuring appropriate
scrutiny for each party and by the appearances of a range of politicians across
a series of programmes.

"Our audiences - and the electorate - will make up their own minds about the
different policies offered by elected politicians."

The perils of gagging Nick Griffin

Editorial, page 26

Why should the BNP sit with the grown-ups?

Philip Hensher, page 31

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

WE WON'T TAKE PART IN BEEB'S BNP 'STUNT';
LABOUR MPS' QUESTION TIME INVITE FURY

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


LABOUR MPs yesterday threatened to boycott BBC1's Question Time if the British
National Party appears on it.

The BBC has revealed it is considering inviting BNP leader Nick Griffin to be on
the flagship programme next month.

Other, smaller, parties such as the Green Party and the UK Independence Party
have been represented on Question Time. But Labour MPs said no one in their
party should take part in a prime-time debate with the BNP.

Former Europe Minister Denis Macshane said: "It is shocking that the BBC will
allow this anti-semite such a platform on the 70th anniversary of Hitler's war
to exterminate Jews.

I hope no Labour MP indulges this irresponsible gimmick by the BBC." A
Corporation spokesman said: "The BBC is obliged to treat all political parties
registered with the Electoral Commission and operating within the law with due
impartiality. Our audiences will make up their own minds."

The BNP won two seats at the last European elections.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

WE WON'T TAKE PART IN BEEB'S BNP 'STUNT';
LABOUR FURY AT QUESTION TIME INVITATION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159 words


LABOUR MPs yesterday threatened to boycott BBC1's Question Time if the British
National Party appears on it.

The BBC has revealed it is considering inviting BNP leader Nick Griffin to be on
the flagship programme next month.

Other, smaller, parties such as the Green Party and the UK Independence Party
have been represented on Question Time. But Labour MPs said no one in their
party should take part in a prime-time debate with the BNP.

Former Europe Minister Denis Macshane said: "It is shocking that the BBC will
allow this anti-semite such a platform on the 70th anniversary of Hitler's war
to exterminate Jews. I hope no Labour MP indulges this irresponsible gimmick by
the BBC." A Corporation spokesman said: "The BBC is obliged to treat all
political parties registered with the Electoral Commission and operating within
the law with due impartiality. Our audiences will make up their own minds."

The BNP won two seats at the last European elections.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Britain - Uproar as BBC invites fascist on Question Time;
Corporation urged to change track on giving platform to far-right extremism

BYLINE: Paul Haste

LENGTH: 371 words


Anti-racists attacked the BBC's claim yesterday that the fascist BNP is "just
like any other party," after the broadcaster announced plans to allow party
leader Nick Griffin to appear on Question Time.

BBC executives insisted that the fascists' electoral success meant that Mr
Griffin was now welcome to appear on the corporation's flagship political show,
and that an invitation had been issued.

"The BNP have got across a threshold that has given them national
representation, and that fact will be reflected in the level of coverage they
will be given," said Ric Bailey, the corporation's chief political adviser.

"Like any party in this position, the BNP will be on programmes like the Andrew
Marr Show and Question Time, as happened with the Greens and UKIP.

"This is not a policy about the BNP. It's a policy about impartiality," he
claimed.

No far-right extremists have appeared on the political debate show before and
Unite Against Fascism secretary Weyman Bennett lost no time in demanding that
the BBC refuse to "normalise" the party's racist views.

"We do not accept that the BNP is 'like any other party' - it is a fascist
organisation that should be shunned by wider civil society," he stressed.

"As a publicly funded institution, the BBC has a duty to represent black and
Asian licence-fee payers, and that means opposing racism, not mollycoddling it
and normalising it.

"The BNP claims it has moderated its views and is now merely a protest vote
against mainstream parties, but it is a fascist organisation with a history of
fomenting violence and race hatred," Mr Bennett added.

Chairman of the Parliamentary group on anti-semitism, Labour MP John Mann,
backed the demand for racist views to be denied airtime.

"It's absurd to give the BNP any space.

"This is how Hitler came to power, and these people have got the same objectives
- it's typical BBC intellectualism giving them airtime," he declared.

However, the National Union of Journalists argued that the best way to combat
the BNP's racist views was to "oppose and expose them wherever and whenever they
are expressed, rather than by seeking to deny their expression."

In a statement, the BBC insisted that the BNP leader's invitation stood.

paulhaste@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP leader Nigel Farage is [...]

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 68 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage is stepping aside to fight Commons Speaker John Bercow
for the traditionally impregnable Tory seat of Buckingham. He has all the right
arguments. Mr Bercow is a Labour-supporting turncoat, not a Tory. And he is the
artificially elected figurehead of a Parliament which has surrendered most of
its power to Brussels. For once, the good people of Buckingham have real power
in their hands.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 7, 2009 Monday 11:01 AM GMT

Britain needs a new political party

BYLINE: By David Lindsay

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 696 words


Farage. It is a new word. It means the headless chicken behaviour of those who
suddenly see the serious possibility of a mainland - nay, even English! - seat
electing someone from outside their cosy little club of economically and
socially ultra-liberal secularists and Eurofanatics for war and against civil
liberties. In recent days, there has plenty of faraging going on.

Well, good luck to Nigel Farage. Although I have never voted for UKIP, I am
where half of its European voters must be politically. Add together the Tory and
UKIP votes in Wales, or London, or any of the three Northern regions, or either
of the two Midland regions, and you get a ludicrously high figure for the number
of natural Tories living there. To cite one of many possible examples, UKIP has
now topped the poll in Cornwall for the second time running. The Lib Dems hold
every Commons seat in Cornwall. Half of UKIP's vote simply must be either Old
Labour or (especially in the West Country) Old Liberal rather than Old Tory.
Plus any number of people like me who for whatever reason have never voted for
UKIP, but who are certainly like that.

So a new movement is now required to fight for the universal and comprehensive
Welfare State (including, for example, farm subsidies). For the strong statutory
and other, including trade union, protection of workers, consumers, communities
and the environment. For fair taxation. For full employment. For the partnership
between a strong Parliament and strong local government. For co-operatives,
credit unions, mutual guarantee societies, mutual building societies and similar
bodies. And for every household to enjoy a base of real property from which to
resist both over-mighty commercial interests and an over-mighty State.

There used to be such a movement. It was defined by Old Labour monarchism and
constitutional caution. By Old Labour and Old Liberal Euroscepticism and
Unionism. By Radical and Old Labour ruralism. And by Old Labour defence of the
grammar schools, moral and social conservatism, economic patriotism, and foreign
policy realism. Not everyone signed up to every point. But everyone accepted
them as legitimate within the whole, and together they therefore set the mood,
the tone.

Those strands now need to be publicly woven back together by new MPs, leading to
a new party. Even if you are a diehard Tory who would never vote for such a
party (although why would you vote for Cameron and Osborne instead?), you must
still see the need of such a broadly-based social democratic and Distributist
movement, to coalesce into a new party once in Parliament. It would be, as it
used to be, one of the parliamentary and political safeguards of the Crown and
the organic Constitution, of national sovereignty and the Union, of the
countryside, of the grammar schools, of traditional values, of tightly
controlled importation and immigration, and of a realistic foreign policy.

Indeed, the existence of this party would make possible the existence of a
proper Tory party, which, faced with such a friendly rival, but rival all the
same, would neither dare nor even wish to threaten welfare provision, workers'
rights, consumer protection, fair taxation, full employment, central and local
government services, and co-operatives and similar enterprises. Thus, in stark
contrast to governments and parties that do threaten those things, it could get
on with conserving the Crown, the organic Constitution, national sovereignty,
the Union, the countryside, the grammar schools, traditional values, tightly
controlled importation and immigration, and a realistic foreign policy. It would
be the friendly but real rival constantly checking and balancing the party of
social democracy and Distributism, and constantly checked and balanced by that
party. These are constitutional checks and balances as important as any other,
and their destruction has been part and parcel of the general destruction of
constitutionality during the New Labour years.

Unless, that is, you have no desire to conserve any of those things, and you are
therefore simply not a conservative at all. In that case, by all means vote for
the Heir to Blair. Or for John Bercow.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tepee dwellers, natural allies for UKIP

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 783 words


It was with a nostalgic pang that I heard that Nigel Farage is to step down as
head of the United Kingdom Independence Party to challenge the Speaker, John
Bercow, at the next general election. For some this will mean precisely nothing;
for me, it is the end of an era. When I was based in Westminster, I had the
honour of being this paper's first and last UKIP correspondent. This was
reminiscent of the confidence my employer had previously shown in my sports
coverage - confined solely to covering the race to circumnavigate the world in a
hot-air balloon. Actually, my experience of dirigibles proved surprisingly
useful for UKIP: both were pursuits engaged in by self-made men in their latter
years, who combined a very English love of being ill-equipped for enormous
challenge with a dandyish delight in the right kind of neckerchief. It also
meant that when encountering Robert Kilroy-Silk I had no fear of inflatable ego
or noisy gusts of hot air.

Ye newe England I heard the news of Farage's decision while camping in a Native
American tepee park in Herefordshire, thinking about Englishness. Although
remote, by the new standard of remoteness - lack of mobile phone reception - we
still had one newspaper we rationed for kindling. Damsons squelched underfoot,
as they have for thousands of years, and blackberries trailed over the signs for
the Polish immigrants' goods shop, as they have for about five. We were not
remote by that new, new standard of remoteness - lack of eastern European
immigration.

Yet the scene felt very English. I wondered why UKIP fares so poorly in domestic
politics. Is it because the real threat to national identity only comes when a
language is under threat, and because of the unique place of English in the
world, that will never happen, however many pockets there are of mosques or
Polski shops.

TB or not TB? The local farmer pitied us. "People in London, they're battery
farmed," he said. His kids were as free range as the mud-splattered pigs lying
drunk on apples from the orchard. The organic movement wants change, in order to
change things back. It's a perfect mix of progressive and regressive
conservatism. I doubt whether Farage frets too much over whether the pork in his
Full English is hand-reared, but he wants change, in order to change back. It's
a powerful national sentiment: UKIP and the organic lobby spring from the same
earth.

All the milk he had to sell was raw and unpasteurised, straight from the udder.
He said he boiled it before his kids drank it, because he worried about TB and,
although he begged, the NHS didn't vaccinate against it any more. I said the NHS
vaccinated my babies against TB as they lived in one of the few parts of the
country - inner London - where immigration was supposed to put them at risk. And
then he turned and showed me his children playing among the mobile homes full of
eastern European migrant workers come to pick his artichokes. "They're much more
at risk here, eh?" he said. I smiled and said: "That's the beauty of battery
farming - you don't want for injections."

Arizona dreaming It rained. And rained. When we lit the tepee's internal fire to
try to steam off the puddle we slept in, a billowing dark cloud began to fall
from the roof. When it landed on us, it turned out not to be soot but spiders,
angry to be smoked from their nests. While taking refuge in the downpour
outside, I remembered my week spent living with a family of Navajo Indians on a
reservation in Arizona. I did spend nights in a sleeping bag on the floor, but
it was in their mobile home, not a tepee. The Navajo did want change, but they
didn't want to change it back. "The tepee is just a fun thing we do for the kids
in summer," said my host. "They don't keep out the rain."

He didn't sentimentalise any part of the Navajo past, good or bad. But we
English are different - and if we don't have enough of our own past to
sentimentalise, we'll do it for the Native Americans too. Yurt and tepee parks
are being adopted by farmers all over England, quick to see that the type of
consumer who likes the old-fashioned idea of organic food sees something noble
in an exotic white tent. They shouldn't. If they want to spend a week camping in
a white tent truly of the English tradition, they should sleep in a wedding
marquee.

When everything was utterly sodden, the tepee began, for a moment, to lose its
charm. Still, a ghastly woman from London went too far when she said "I think I
now know a bit how it feels to be homeless," and went on, without irony, to eat
her organic yoghurt. Reader, it was me. Luckily I was mercilessly satirised by
my fellow campers for making such an offensive remark. Thank God for the
English.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The BNP on prime time TV? Bring it on;
Give them the oxygen of publicity and British voters will choke on the party's
ignorant bigotry

BYLINE: Matthew Syed

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 899 words


Should the BNP be allowed on Question Time? Of course they should. And
Newsnight, the Andrew Marr Show, BBC Breakfast, the Daily Politics, the Today
programme, PM, The World Tonight, This Week, you name it. Hell, they should be
given a run-out on This Morning with Phil and Holly, a slot on the One Show and
a weekly outing on Have I Got News for You.

Giving these racists publicity is like handing them a length of rope.

All it would take is three months of full-frontal exposure and not even the
denizens of Burnley would bother to vote for them. If you disbelieve me, take a
look at their website. It is pure comic book stuff, so lacking in intellectual
rigour, so riddled with inanity, so comically prejudiced, that it reads like
parody, not policy. It kept me so amused yesterday that I forgot to watch the
footie.

One characteristically pithy remark by Nick Griffin, their leader, caught the
eye when he described me as "a tragic victim of multi-racism". Well, not me
personally, but those of my ilk: the progeny of "miscegenation" (i.e. mixed-race
kids). "The divine or Darwinian pressures which created different races in the
first place also very clearly created the innate human tendency to prefer 'us'
to 'them' as the way in which such differences would be preserved," Griffin
wrote.

And later: "Nor even does it mean that we think that it is a good thing for even
a single person of European stock to have so much as one child with a Japanese
or Chinese. We do not, because such a union mixes what are not meant to be
mixed, destroys two ancient family lines, and undermines two equally great but
entirely separate cultures." I laughed out loud reading this stuff, really I
did. Guffawed at its preposterous ignorance of population genetics; giggled at
its blurring of genetics and culture; tittered at its bizarre attempt to
straddle creationism and Darwinism; sniggered at its dressing up of brute
prejudice in the guise of pseudo-intellectualism. Some oppose the lowering of
the voting age to 16 on the grounds that adolescents lack the intellectual
maturity to make an informed choice between the parties - but any literate
twelve-year-old could see through the transparent foolishness of the BNP.

And that really is the point. The BNP is currently surfing a shallow wave of
popularity not because it gets too much exposure, but because it gets too
little. Keep this bizarre organisation beneath the parapet, deny its members
airtime, raise the spectre of censorship, give them an opportunity to proclaim
that they are being treated unjustly, and you hand them kudos of incalculable
potency.

But give them a good airing and only somebody in severe need of Sudafed will
fail to smell the stench.

And this is why it is so depressing that a Cabinet minister said yesterday that
he would boycott Question Time for its decision to allow a member of the BNP on
its panel in October. Is this minister really so contemptuous of democracy, so
disdainful of free speech, that he will not go head to head with a political
opponent? Is he really so scornful of the British people that he does not trust
them to perceive the rotten creed at the heart of BNP policy? Or could it be
that he fears he lacks the debating skills to expose the BNP for what it is?
Either way, it smacks of cowardice, not principle - at least that is how it will
be perceived.

Remember Buster Mottram? The former British number one tennis player and
one-time supporter of the National Front? The man who, at the height of racial
tension in the 1970s, said: "I hope Enoch Powell will never die, just as his
namesake in the Bible never died." The chap who, only last year, tried to broker
a pact between the BNP and UKIP (emphatically rejected by the UKIP leadership).

I mention Mottram not with any great pleasure but because there is an analogy to
be drawn between sport and democracy. Sport is a competition between individuals
in much the way that democracy is a battle between ideas. If you are a tennis
player about to play Mottram at Wimbledon, you cannot win by default, however
much you might wish to.

You have to go out there and play: expose the weaknesses in his game with the
force and vigour of your own; demonstrate your superiority not by evasion and
avoidance, but through direct engagement.

And that is the only way to defeat the BNP: they must be outplayed, exposed,
given the run around until they get dizzy and fall over. It is not as if - with
their ramshackle policies and absurd racial obsessions - they offer much in the
way of opposition. If a Cabinet minister really feels uncertain about his
ability to give Griffin a good thrashing in a televised studio debate, we should
be even more worried about the state of British politics than about the state of
British tennis.

It is sometimes said that a belief in democracy requires a deep-seated faith in
the wisdom of the electorate and the vitality of liberal institutions. That is
true, so far as it goes - and there may come a time when that faith is properly
tested. But giving the BNP airtime requires no such faith. This is a party that
is parasitic on disillusionment with mainstream politics as well as on an
ignorance about what really makes it tick. The more oxygen they are given to
publicise their views, the more the British people will choke on their bigotry
and hatred.

Democracy is a battle of ideas. You cannot win by default. You must play

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               September 6, 2009
                                 First Edition

They revolted in 1497 ... now they're at it again;
As Cornwall's culture undergoes a renaissance, activists want the population
census of 2011 to specify Cornish as a distinct nationality

BYLINE: Emily Dugan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 708 words


What's black and white, and plastered all over the back windows of cars and vans
in Cornwall, hangs from the county's roofs, and is even printed on the back of
Cornish pasty packets?

It's the St Piran's flag - the white cross on a black background that symbolises
the fierce independent spirit of the Cornish - a spirit that is increasingly
asserting itself in the most south-westerly corner of England.

Not since the Cornish rebellion of 1497, when of thousands of Cornishmen marched
on London, have calls for autonomy been so strident. Now a campaign has been
launched to have Cornish offered as a nationality option in the 2011 census.

MPs and councillors are among those who are appealing to the Office of National
Statistics (ONS) to offer a distinct Cornish category on census forms. The ONS
is resisting, saying that people free to declare themselves Cornish on forms, as
they did in 2001, but campaigners insist that without an explicit option the
census will fail to record the true number of people who consider themselves
Cornish. More than 3,000 people have joined a group on Facebook calling for a
Cornish tick box.

The campaign ignited after it was discovered that more than 37,000 people
recorded their nationality as Cornish after ticking "other" in the 2001 census.
It follows a private member's Bill in July which called for Cornwall to be
treated like Scotland and Wales and have its own government.

Mebyon Kernow, the Cornish self-governance party, won three seats in the
county's council elections in June - three more than Labour and UKIP. MK also
won 7 per cent of the Cornish vote in the European elections, and there will
also be a candidate from the party in all Cornish constituencies at the next
general election.

"Cornish identity is experiencing a renaissance," said Dan Rogerson, MP for
North Cornwall, who sponsored the Bill. "If a separate assembly works in Wales
why couldn't it work in Cornwall? We've got half a million people and a very
distinct identity and history." His Bill calls for greater control over
education, housing, agriculture, heritage and economic sustainability.

Dick Cole, the MK leader and a Newquay councillor, said: "We exist in order to
campaign for self-government for Cornwall, so we wouldn't be getting these
levels of support if it wasn't an increasingly popular idea. The census is an
opportunity for us to put pressure on central government and the ONS to
acknowledge that we are separate."

The sense of separation was prominent yesterday as hundreds of people gathered
in Saltash for the Gorseth Kernow, a traditional event celebrating Cornish
culture, similar to the Welsh Gorsedd. The event's archaic traditions suggest it
has been happening for centuries. However, the first was held in 1928.

Despite this it has gained a strong following in recent years. Vanessa Beeman,
Grand Bard of the Gorseth Kernow, says: "There is definitely a surge of interest
in protecting what it is to be Cornish. I'm Cornish first and British second. If
you see maps of Henry VIII's time he talked about Scotland, Wales, Cornwall and
England. We got absorbed into England but nobody ever discussed it; we're still
a separate duchy."

Such efforts have been encouraged by Europe's recognition of Cornish as a
minority language in 2002, which brought in new funding for cultural projects.
Fifty primary schools in the county now teach the Cornish language. Jenefer
Lowe, of the Cornish Language Partnership and a member of Hevva, a Cornish music
and dancing group, says she has noticed a renewed enthusiasm for asserting the
county's separate identity.

"Cornish culture has very much come to the fore in the last few years. I think
it's a reaction to globalisation and people realise that cultures such as ours
are very vulnerable. Twenty years ago there was one traditional Cornish dance
group; now there are six display groups working all the time." Traditional
sports such as Cornish wrestling have also grown in popularity.

The growing awareness of Cornish identity has certainly boosted sales of the
flag. Alan Baker, who runs Cornish Flags, says orders have gone through the
roof. "In the last couple of years we've doubled our turnover each year. People
are more proud than ever to show that they're Cornish."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 6, 2009

BBC forces Labour to rethink BNP ban

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words


The BBC has forced the Labour party to review its policy of not sharing the same
platform as rightwing extremists by inviting BNP leader Nick Griffin to appear
on Question Time

Alan Johnson, the home secretary, is one of a number of senior Labour figures
approached by the programme who have already refused to appear alongside
Griffin, for fear of lending him greater legitimacy.

Labour aides said no minister would be forced to debate with him, but admitted
it would now have to reconsider the long-standing convention that senior Labour
politicians do not debate head to head with the BNP.

The Tories, meanwhile, said last night they would be "very happy" to field a
senior member of the shadow cabinet to confront Griffin, whose invitation
follows his election to the European parliament in the spring.

"The question for the BBC is whether they should be putting him on the panel,
but otherwise we are going to treat it like any other programme," said a Tory
spokesman.

"We have seen the BNP do well in areas where people haven't been prepared to
tackle them and now they are elected we have got to face up to that reality. We
will take them on in argument and debate."

Although Griffin has been interviewed before on flagship programmes such as
Radio 4's Today programme, appearing on the Question Time panel is

a coup that the BNP is likely to exploit to argue that it has now entered the
political mainstream.

The BBC said its guidelines require it to treat all parties impartially, adding
the invitation was "consistent" with similar approaches to Green and Ukip MEPs.

The broadcaster recently opened negotiations with the major parties about a
programme to be taped this autumn in London involving Griffin. Concerns are said
to include the balance of not only the panel but also the audience, with BNP
members likely to be keen to apply and ask questions.

However, BBC sources signalled that any boycott by mainstream politicians would
not stop Griffin appearing, warning that parties are not allowed to dictate who
is included.

The move marks the latest stage of the BNP's entry into the political
mainstream, following a row this summer over the BNP's London Assembly member,
Richard Barnbrook, being invited to a Buckingham Palace garden party.

And it has reopened divisions between and inside parties over how best to
respond to the threat from the BNP, with Griffin threatening to stand for a
Westminster seat at the next election. He has been selected as a candidate in
Thurrock, where Labour MP Andrew MacKinlay is retiring and the BNP already has a
council seat.

The party is also likely to stand against John Bercow, the new Speaker, in his
Buckingham seat in a high-profile contest following Ukip's decision to stand in
defiance of the convention that the Speaker is not opposed at an election.

A Labour spokesman said: "The custom is that Labour does not share a platform
with the BNP, but given the impact of the BBC's guidelines on our and other
mainstream political parties' position we are reviewing this." A BBC spokeswoman
added: "The BBC is obliged to treat all political parties registered with the
Electoral Commission and operating within the law with due impartiality.

"By winning representation in the European parliament, the BNP has demonstrated
evidence of electoral support at a national level. This will be reflected in the
amount of coverage it receives on BBC programmes such as Question Time ."


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 6, 2009

BNP secures TV platform

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 351 words


a coup that the BNP is likely to exploit to argue that it has now entered the
political mainstream.

The BBC said its guidelines require it to treat all parties impartially, adding
the invitation was "consistent" with similar approaches to Green and Ukip MEPs.

The broadcaster recently opened negotiations with the major parties about a
programme to be taped this autumn in London involving Griffin. Concerns are said
to include the balance of not only the panel but also the audience, with BNP
members likely to be keen to apply and ask questions.

However, BBC sources signalled that any boycott by mainstream politicians would
not stop Griffin appearing, warning that parties are not allowed to dictate who
is included.

The move marks the latest stage of the BNP's entry into the political
mainstream, following a row this summer over the BNP's London Assembly member,
Richard Barnbrook, being invited to a Buckingham Palace garden party.

And it has reopened divisions between and inside parties over how best to
respond to the threat from the BNP, with Griffin threatening to stand for a
Westminster seat at the next election. He has been selected as a candidate in
Thurrock, where Labour MP Andrew MacKinlay is retiring and the BNP already has a
council seat.

The party is also likely to stand against John Bercow, the new Speaker, in his
Buckingham seat in a high-profile contest following Ukip's decision to stand in
defiance of the convention that the Speaker is not opposed at an election.

A Labour spokesman said: "The custom is that Labour does not share a platform
with the BNP, but given the impact of the BBC's guidelines on our and other
mainstream political parties' position we are reviewing this." A BBC spokeswoman
added: "The BBC is obliged to treat all political parties registered with the
Electoral Commission and operating within the law with due impartiality.

"By winning representation in the European parliament, the BNP has demonstrated
evidence of electoral support at a national level. This will be reflected in the
amount of coverage it receives on BBC programmes such as Question Time ."


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 6, 2009

Ukip accused of 'hijacking' Easter Rising

BYLINE: Henry McDonald

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 211 words


The UK Independence Party has been accused of hijacking the Easter 1916
rebellion to help the cause of British Euroscepticism. A former Irish minister
and grandson of a 1916 rebel said it was offensive that British Eurosceptics
were using the Rising to oppose the EU Lisbon Treaty.

Outgoing Ukip leader Nigel Farage claimed at the start of the "No" campaign in
the Lisbon referendum that the men and women who took part in the Easter
rebellion would have been against the treaty.

Ukip came to Dublin in June 2008 to support opponents of the Lisbon Treaty in
the first referendum. Farage and other British Eurosceptics were seen waving
Irish flags after voters rejected the EU reform plan.

Eoin Ryan, former Fianna Fail minister, said this weekend that claims that the
founding fathers of the Republic would have opposed Lisbon were "outrageous".

He added: "The facts show that our revolutionary heroes rejected the
little-Englander beliefs of people like Mr Farage and believed passionately in
Ireland as a European nation that would belong to strong international bodies.

"My grandfather, James Ryan, was the medical attendant in the GPO in 1916 and
when I was young I heard him and other survivors from Easter Week talk about
creation of what is now the European Union."


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 6, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP left open to be run by a, gulp, foreigner;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 158 words


Now that Nigel Farage has resigned as leader of UKIP to concentrate on his
general election campaign against the Speaker, John Bercow, here's the issue
that absolutely nobody is discussing: who will take over the top job (if the
leadership of the UK Independence party can, under electoral law, actually be
described as a top job)? The obvious candidate is Farage's deputy, David
Campbell Bannerman, who stood unsuccessfully in the last leadership contest.
Alas, the most interesting thing about Campbell Bannerman is that he's distantly
related to Sir Henry Campbell Bannerman, the Liberal who is neck and neck with
Andrew Bonar Law as the 20th century's most obscure prime minister.

A more colourful choice might be MEP Marta Andreasen, who was sacked as chief
accountant of the European commission after raising concerns about fraud. This
marks, by the way, the first time the words "colourful" and "chief accountant"
have been so closely linked.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 6, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

AND THEY'RE OFF ... AGAIN;
As Ireland prepares to vote on the Lisbon treaty a second time, will the party
leaders' united front result in a smooth ride to the finish, ask Sarah McInerney
and Stephen O'Brien

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney; Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1677 words


In the bowels of Dublin's Buswells Hotel last Thursday morning, Anthony Coughlan
peered at his audience with a resigned look. Fewer than six people had gathered
in the dimly-lit room for the National Platform's launch of their campaign
against the Lisbon treaty.

Undeterred, Jens-Peter Bonde, a Eurosceptic former Danish MEP, waved a slim,
neatly-bound booklet angrily in the air. "This is the most misleading document I
have seen in my 30 years dealing with more than 20 referendums in my life," he
declared, brandishing the Referendum Commission's guide to the treaty. His
indignation was met with silence, and the scratching of one journalist's pen.

Coughlan knew where most of the national media were. At that moment, a gaggle of
photographers, TV cameras, radio reporters and writers were at the GPO watching
Enda Kenny, the Fine Gael leader, heave a giant, expertly-produced poster of
himself into the air. Behind him, sprightly young party supporters beamed for
the cameras waving similar posters, all of which advocated Fine Gael's 'Yes to
Lisbon' stance in a yellow and blue theme.

After the first full week of campaigning, the signs appear ominous for the No
side. The pro-British UK Independence Party (UKIP) has waded into the fray
alongside Sinn Fein. Coir, an anti-abortion group, is striking out on its own
with alarmist posters about the minimum wage being reduced from ¤8.65 an hour to
¤1.84, while communists, small farmers and peace activists are also fighting for
airtime to oppose Lisbon.

The confusing messages contrast with the Yes campaigners. Brian Cowen, Enda
Kenny and Eamon Gilmore, the respective leaders of Fianna Fail, Fine Gael and
Labour, have set aside their differences to present a united Yes face to the
electorate, saddling up for one more effort. In theory, their job is easier,
since with Libertas out of the running there is no Declan Ganley to provide the
impression of a collective force.

Might the splintered No groups merge their efforts, and defend their damaged
credibility from the allegation of scaremongering? And regardless of their
diminished state, will the No side's ability to campaign on emotive issues
succeed again with floating voters? Or will the Yes side manage to quell
spurious claims about the treaty and dominate with their own agenda? IF this
were a boxing match, Coir would have emerged from last week bloodied and
bruised, while the Yes side would be punching the air in triumph. Last Sunday,
Coir was caught in a headlock by Micheál Martin, Fianna Fail's Lisbon campaign
director, over its association with Youth Defence, another anti-abortion group.

Martin's staff took pictures of Coir's headquarters, which is adorned with Youth
Defence slogans, and distributed them to the media, citing them as proof that
Coir is merely a front for the more extreme group. "I don't understand why
Micheál Martin felt the need to make a big deal about it," said Brian Hickey, a
spokesman for Coir. "We have never denied we are associated with Youth Defence
and we don't think that's a negative thing."

On Monday night, the group held a public meeting in the Skylon Hotel, unaware
that two non-Coir bloggers, Suzy Byrne and Alexia Golez, were in the 60-strong
crowd, filming the meeting on mobile phones. Byrne and Golez captured the
surprise interruption of Paul McGrath, the former Irish football player, who
stormed into the room and announced he didn't agree with Coir's anti-treaty
stance, and that it was "bullshit".

Golez posted the incident on IrishElection.

com, while Byrne described the meeting on her blog, citing "terrible speeches
and lack of focused message" to back up her claim of the group's
disorganisation.

The following day, Generation YES, a pro-Lisbon youth group, revealed it was
launching an online lie buster to take on mistruths about Lisbon, and that its
first target was Coir. "The claims made on [Coir's] posters have no basis in
fact and Generation YES is determined to bring the debate on the Lisbon treaty
back to the facts," said Andrew Byrne, the group's executive director.

On Wednesday, Dara Calleary, a junior government minister, struck out at Coir's
assertion that the minimum wage in Ireland could be reduced to ¤1.84 if the
treaty was passed. By the end of the week, this claim had been side-stepped by a
vocal and convincing Yes side. As Coir's spokespeople tried to hold the line,
the silence from other No campaigners was deafening.

The lack of support for Coir from other anti-Lisbon groups was superseded only
by the hostile reception given to UKIP when it burst onto the scene mid-week. On
Wednesday, the party announced it was going to spend ¤100,000 sending a leaflet
to every home in Ireland containing eight reasons to oppose the treaty. Among
them is a claim that the treaty will leave the door open to immigration.

"Our main concern, however, is the loss of the 60 vetoes and loss of
independence from the Union," said Gawain Towler, UKIP's spokesman. "We have
different views from a lot of the other No groups. We have a different approach
to militarisation, which is not an issue for us. And we make strange bedfellows
with people like the Shinners [Sinn Fein] and the socialists.

"We understand that the last thing you all want is a bunch of braying Englishmen
telling you how to behave. But we believe the deck is so heavily stacked in
favour of the Yes side, that we have to get involved."

The Irish political parties were quick to capitalise on the negative ideas that
many Irish people associate with UKIP. Joe Costello, Labour's Lisbon campaign
director, immediately sent out a press release reminding people that in the wake
of last year's No victory, UKIP members dressed up in leprechaun hats in the
European Parliament and "indulged in a grotesque performance of stage
Irishness".

"The entrance of the UKIP into the debate was one of the best things that could
have happened to the Yes side," said Noel Whelan, a political analyst. "It's the
best boost they could have hoped for."

Many No groups have refused to be associated with Coir and UKIP, insisting they
are campaigning against the treaty for different reasons. "I take no
responsibility for groups like them," said Joe Higgins, a Socialist MEP, who is
launching a No campaign tomorrow. "The Lisbon treaty has nothing to do with
abortion, for example. We are campaigning against it because we want to protect
workers' rights and public services, and to stop an intensification of the
militarisation of Europe." Eirigi, a socialist/republican organisation, also
expresses discomfort with other No campaigners. "The politics of UKIP would
concern us," said Daithí Mac An Mháistír, a spokesman for the group.

"The government was wrong as to why people voted No last time. It wasn't about
abortion, conscription, or taxation. It was the advancement of a neo-liberal
superstate, the politics of big business and the enshrinement of an open market
economy. That's what people objected to, and that's what we'll be campaigning
about."

Both Eirigi and the Socialist party are part of VoteNo.ie, an umbrella
anti-Lisbon organisation which also comprises Sinn Fein, the People's Movement,
the National Platform and the Peace and Neutrality Alliance (PANA). While these
groups largely agree on their reasons for opposing the treaty, Higgins and Mac
An Mháistir admit there is a growing fear that extremist claims from groups such
as Coir and the UKIP will obscure the real arguments.

"There is a possiblity that the Yes side will try to use the fact that parties
such as UKIP are involved on the No side to dismiss anything that any of us has
to say," said Patricia McKenna, leader of the People's Movement.

BUT even if it's not the attention that many of the No campaigners might wish,
the antics of Coir and UKIP ensure they attract more media coverage than any of
the other No campaigners, and many of the Yes side, too.

"They've forced us into doing exactly what we were trying to avoid: denying
their claims instead of promoting our own," said one Fianna Fail TD. "I think we
won the first round, but even by talking about their claims, you're bringing
people's attention to what they're saying. Any publicity is good publicity.
That's a problem."

Whelan also noted that even though the the Yes side is larger: "Yet again, the
No side have the best posters. "The Yes side are all messages about Europe being
good for Ireland. The No side is confining their posters to specific, emotive
issues that are likely to make people look and think."

Even so, the most provocative claims are unlikely to get the airtime they did
last year. The Broadcasting Commission of Ireland has ruled that independent
broadcasters will no longer have to allocate an equal amount of airtime to both
sides of the debate.

Willie O'Reilly, Today FM's chief executive, said this would lead to a more
balanced debate. "It is too easy to get a debate going around [provocative
posters]," he said.

In addition to Generation Yes's lie buster and the vigilant supervision of the
political parties, Judge Frank Clarke, chairman of the Referendum Commission,
will be rolling up his sleeves to dispel any "myths" about the treaty. Clarke
will appear on RTE Radio's flagship news show, Morning Ireland, every Friday for
the next three weeks to answer questions on the treaty and rebut "bogus"
arguments.

The Yes side hopes that such robust tactics will ensure that public confusion
will not become a fog of distrust this time. Yet Whelan notes the No side have
one more line of attack yet to be explored.

"The Yes side have an advantage this time in that our economic circumstances
have deteriorated so rapidly that people are now much more appreciative of
Europe," he said.

"But equally, the No side have a new advantage, too: the anger and frustration
with the Irish government has never been so strong. It has intensified
dramatically since the last campaign. If the No side feeds into this anger and
then channels it towards the Lisbon vote, it could just give them the edge they
need."

'' THE GOVERNMENT WAS WRONG AS TO WHY PEOPLE VOTED 'NO' LAST TIME

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cowen, Kenny and Gilmore have set aside party differences to put on a
united front supporting the Lisbon treaty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            September 6, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

67 want vote on EU membership

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 200  words


TWO thirds of Britons want their chance to vote on our membership of the
European Union, a survey shows.

The online poll published today reveals 67 per cent want a referendum, including
more than half of Labour and Lib Dem voters.

Among Conservatives the figure is 82 per cent - putting more pressure on party
leader David Cameron to clarify his position on Europe.

Despite campaigning against the Lisbon Treaty - the rehashed EU constitution -
the Tories will not say whether they will tear it up in power.

But the furore over the treaty will be re-ignited next month when Ireland holds
a second referendum, despite voting against it last year.

Labour has denied British voters the chance to vote on the treaty, but today's
survey by Opinium Research suggests Britain could deliver a huge blow to
Brussels if ever given the chance to vote on EU membership.

Anger has been fuelled after the Treasury admitted Britain's net EU contribution
will rise by almost 60 per cent to GBP 6.4billion in 2010 - equal to a GBP 260
levy on every British home.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said:

"The Irish referendum will put Europe back at the heart of the debate. The
question the Tories would rather not face is coming back."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

THE QUENTIN LETTS COLUMN

LENGTH: 973 words


EEK! IS LORD SUGAR DREAMING OF A MIGHTY MOUSE RAMPANT?

THAT living genius Lord Sugar of Clapton -- who is threatening to sue me for
suggesting he was a political minnow ennobled for his telly fame -- finds his
mighty mind cogitating towards a coat of arms.

I am told his lordship, intelligentsia's answer to Usain Bolt, has been directed
to the very top at the College of Arms. Not for him pifflers such as Rouge
Dragon Pursuivant or Clarenceux King of Arms. No, matey! The little fella's coat
of arms is being designed by the top sausage himself, Garter King of Arms, Her
Majesty's principal adviser on heraldry.

The current Garter King of Arms is Peter Gwynn- Jones, a perfect sweetie soon to
retire. Bachelor Peter lists tropical rainforests as his hobby. He is a
connoisseur of furry, feral creatures with sharp teeth. Anklebiter Alan should
be a source of no little fascination.

A cold female voice at Garter King's office yesterday told me, briskly, that the
design of Lord Sugar's arms was none of my business. No doubt she is right. But
nor will it be for Lord Sugar to decide his armorial doodles. The Kings of Arms
are empowered by the Crown firmly to say 'what is heraldically trite'.

New peers may pay large sums of money to the College of Arms, but they soon find
they are treated very much as applicants rather than customers. Oh dear. I do
hope everything goes smoothly and that Garter King handles his client with tact.

What will be on the great chin stroker's arms? Although I was told to get lost
yesterday, I hear the design may include a mouse -- a heraldic pun on a computer
'mouse', a reference to Lord Sugar's old line of trade. Given his manner on
BBC1's Apprentice, perhaps a pointing, mailed fist might be in order, too. Or a
waggling tonsil? A pair of Cuban heels? And naturally a drawing of a vast brain.

My sincere thanks to the readers who have sent donations to help me fight Sugar.
If his threats melt away I intend to give this money to a good cause. I trust
this is in order.

Meanwhile, two rumours. First, the Labour Whips have identified a House of Lords
office for Sugar. There is a distressing rumour it is tiny. Second, I may not be
the only soul at Westminster to have received legal menaces from his lordship's
legal grunts, Messrs Herbert Smith.

--

SOME common sense from the Church in our diocese. The Bishop of Hereford has
announced that vicars may again use the chalice at communion services, reversing
the archbishops' frightened-rabbit rule a few weeks ago that the shared cup
could spread swine flu (wine flu, even). Just as well.

The health edict arguably broke the articles of religion, as laid down in the
Book of Common Prayer, article 30 stating: 'The Cup of the Lord is not to be
denied to the Lay-people.'

--

TORY Whip Bill Wiggin gave the Japanese ambassador a surprise the other day.

London diplomats have long resigned themselves to viewing British politicians as
linguistic cavemen, but Wiggin greeted the Tokyo envoy with a stream of
faultless Japanese.

How come? He once worked in Japan as a bullion trader, living and sleeping with
Japanese bank workers.

With that unusual skill, shouldn't he be made a shadow Foreign Office minister?

--

SOPHISTICATION GOES UP IN SMOKE

FURTIVE scenes at the back of the Noel Coward Theatre in the West End. Shortly
before curtain up every night, and during the interval, stars Jerry Hall and
June Brown nip outside for a calming smoke. Given that Miss Brown (aka Dot
Cotton in EastEnders) is in her 80s, you'd think they might let her have a
crafty gasper in her dressing room. The name of Noel Coward inspires images of
elegant cigaretteholders, but the scene at the theatre's stage door most nights
is more like something from the old cartoon strip Andy Capp. Misses Hall and
Brown suck their cigs to their last sliver of an inch before retreating inside
for their performances.

--

JOHN BERCOW could become the Pope John Paul I of Commons Speakers after the
electrifying news that UKIP's Nigel Farage will challenge the former Tory in
Buckingham. You will recall that poor John Paul I had the shortest of reigns.

Many media outlets yesterday reported that Mr Farage was breaking the
'convention' that Speakers stand unopposed at general elections. Lazy
journalism. Speakers have often faced rivals. The Scots Nats stood against
Speaker Martin in 2005 and took a 4.2 per cent swing from the old boy.

The position in Squeaker Bercow's Buckingham constituency may rest on Patrick
Phillips, a former High Sherrif who two months ago also declared his intention
to stand against Mr Bercow.

Mr Phillips describes himself as 'Conservatively minded' and said yesterday that
'at the moment my hat is still in the ring'. He has been attracting a good deal
of support from Tory voters, some of them party members who cannot bear Mr
Bercow.

If he did stand, would he rob the Squeaker of crucial votes? Or would he dilute
the Farage vote? If the Tories ran Mr Phillips as their official candidate, they
could perhaps both get rid of Mr Bercow and defeat Mr Farage.

--

A GOLD-MEDAL NIGHT AT THE OPERA

COULD the opening ceremony of the 2012 Olympic Games feature a good, long blast
of HMS Pinafore and The Mikado?

The London Olympics people are about to start planning the ceremony and there is
a desire to make it memorable for content rather than simply for expensive
fireworks and gizmos.

Ian Smith, the impresario behind the annual Gilbert and Sullivan festival (a
huge event which just had its 16th year in Buxton), has submitted a detailed
proposal for a monster choir of singers from all over the world to belt out
Gilbert and Sullivan songs.

'Their music is distinctively British and we have drafted a proposal for 1,000
singers in costume to perform at the opening or closing ceremony,' says Smith.

London's Mayor, Boris Johnson, would surely find this joyous idea hard to
resist.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

PETER OBORNE COLUMN

LENGTH: 1415 words


YES, BROWN'S A PATRIOT. BUT HIS COWARDLY EVASIVENESS OVER LOCKERBIE HAS RAISED
THE QUESTION: CAN HE LAST UNTIL THE ELECTION? DECEITFUL:

PRIME MINISTERS fall into three categories. There are the truly exceptional
individuals with the courage and the indomitable will to shape history. Margaret
Thatcher and Sir Winston Churchill are the two most recent examples.

Then there are the middle-of-the-road. These perform to the best of their
ability, but get driven hither and thither by events -- leaving little of worth
as a legacy. Most prime ministers fit into this undistinguished -- though not
dishonourable -- category.

Finally, there are the utter incompetents, of whom there were only two in the
entire 20th century. One was poor Anthony Eden, who led Britain into the debacle
of the Suez invasion in 1956. The other was Neville Chamberlain, the architect
of the doomed policy of appeasement, who was manifestly not up to the job when
World War II broke out 70 years ago this week.

The once promising name of Gordon Brown can now be added to this pitiful third
category. The dire events of the past few weeks have proven what many were
already coming to suspect: he is simply not up to the job.

As a man he is suspicious, mean-minded and conspiratorial. He is evasive,
calculating and -- despite writing several books about courage -- a coward. He
is darkly suspicious of his fellow men and surrounds himself with mediocrities
who do not threaten him. Above all, there is no generosity of spirit.

His most pervasive personal characteristic is dishonesty. He will resort to any
ruse or political stratagem rather than tell the straightforward truth. It is
this instinct for duplicity which explains why the controversy over the release
of the Lockerbie bomber has turned into such a crisis.

However, it is very important to understand that the problem does not lie with
Gordon Brown's original decision to allow Abdelbaset Al Megrahi to be released
from jail and sent home to Libya. Bear in mind that the Prime Minister had
received advice from the Foreign Office that Colonel Gaddafi would offer help in
the fight against terrorism if Megrahi was released.

Bear in mind also that major companies, such as BP, were telling Brown that
Britain would lose big commercial contracts with Libya unless a deal was done
over Megrahi -- meaning that thousands of jobs were at stake -- as well as
potentially, if the reduced terror threat was to be believed, a number of
British lives.

THE easy way out of this dilemma was to take the morally unambiguous decision to
prevent Megrahi's release. But that would have meant risking those British jobs
and losing the cooperation of the valued Libyan intelligence service in the
battle against al Qaeda.

It's the sort of difficult choice that prime ministers down the ages have been
forced to make as they grapple with the murky, amoral world of international
diplomacy.

Gordon Brown wrestled with these issues and I believe that he acted in a
genuinely patriotic way by putting Britain's prosperity and national security
ahead of moral decency and integrity. Indeed, Tony Blair made a similar decision
when he suspended the Serious Fraud Office investigation into alleged bribes
offered by British Aerospace to the Saudi Royal Family in exchange for arms
contracts.

Blair knew that the price of continuing with the criminal investigation would
have been the estrangement of a key international ally and the potential loss of
tens of thousands of highly skilled British manufacturing jobs.

The decision he made to intervene and drop the corruption case was very
uncomfortable, but I still believe it was a brave one.

And so Gordon Brown's current problem over the Lockerbie bomber's release was
emphatically not his original decision to accede to Gaddafi's wishes for the
Libyan mass murderer to be allowed to return home to die. Instead, it was the
way he handled the controversy.

When news of Megrahi's impending release was originally leaked last month, Brown
could have been upfront and honest. He could have explained publicly the dilemma
he faced, pointing out the enormous benefits that have accrued to Britain in
terms of foreign exchange, jobs and security cooperation.

Of course, such openness would have offended many people. There would have been
an outbreak of apoplectic fury at Hampstead dinners parties; Nick Clegg, the
Liberal Democrat leader, would have waxed indignant.

But many decent and thoughtful people would have understood why Brown had made
the decision he did. Even those who disagreed would have admired his honesty.

Sadly, however, the Prime Minister is incapable of this kind of
straightforwardness. So, he hid himself away, refusing to answer questions.
Meanwhile, he allowed his ministers to issue a series of deceitful statements
saying that there was no connection between BP's lucrative Libyan contracts and
the release of Megrahi.

Over the past few weeks, as could easily have been predicted, the Labour
Government's account of events has been exposed as a pack of lies. We now know
that a deal was done and, as a consequence, Brown looks cowardly, shifty and
morally despicable. What's more, the rest of the world therefore sees Britain as
cowardly, shifty and morally despicable. Our international standing has suddenly
fallen.

It is this tragedy that explains why the Lockerbie row has introduced a
disturbing new dynamic into politics.

Before the summer, Brown's personal inadequacy was well known at Westminster,
but this was merely viewed as an internal Labour Party issue.

HOWEVER, Brown's incompetence and moral cowardice has now become a national
concern. For example, our Prime Minister has become an object of derision and
contempt in the mainstream American press.

Meanwhile, Whitehall has become paralysed for lack of leadership and political
direction. Vital decisions -- such as over the future of the energy industry and
the tough public spending cuts needed to avert national bankruptcy -- have been
put on hold.

More important still, Brown has sat on the fence over whether to commit more
troops to Afghanistan, where British soldiers are being killed almost daily.
There is still no clear strategy, as his dire speech yesterday showed all too
plainly.

Last summer, the question of Brown's survival into the General Election was
couched in terms of the future of the Labour Party, namely whether another
leader such as Alan Johnson would save the party from electoral wipe-out.

But the issue is much wider now and centres on whether the country can afford
yet more of Gordon Brown's weakness, dithering, dishonesty and evasion.

Bear in mind that a General Election need not be held until June 3 next year at
the latest -- so that's another nine months of Brown in No 10 at a time of
economic and international crisis.

I am told that Tony Blair, who knows Gordon Brown's character better than most,
privately believes that his successor may step down of his own accord once he
realises he faces certain defeat at the election.

Some of Blair's allies (such as his former Press Secretary Alastair Campbell,
who came to Brown's aid when he faced a crisis of confidence last year) now
appear to have withdrawn their support. So it is still far from certain that
Brown will last in office until the General Election.

Seventy years ago, the Conservative backbencher Leo Amery stood up during a
Commons debate and launched a devastating attack on the then prime minister
Neville Chamberlain.

Quoting Oliver Cromwell, he said: 'You have sat too long here for any good you
have been doing. Depart, I say, and let us have done with you. In the name of
God, go!' Chamberlain was out within days. It is time Gordon Brown, too, was cut
adrift.

--

THE VOTERS' CHANCE TO TELL BERCOW TO HOOF IT

LAST SUMMER, in the wake of the biggest corruption scandal in the 600-year
history of the House of Commons, Labour and LibDem MPs scandalously conspired to
elect John Bercow (one of those most shamefully embroiled in the expenses
scandal) as the new Speaker.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, believes that MPs 'broke the
trust' of the British people in choosing Bercow and has now decided to stand
against him at the next parliamentary election.

Although UKIP (though not, so far as I know, Farage personally) has been
involved in more than its fair share of corruption scandals, the voters in
Bercow's Buckingham seat have been granted a perfect opportunity to deliver a
public verdict on the greed and selfishness of MPs. I hope they take it.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

The beginning of the end for Bercow

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 119  words


It is sublime news that Nigel Farage, who, as leader of Ukip, has proved himself
the most articulate conservative in Britain, is taking on John Bercow, the pygmy
Speaker of the Commons, in Buckingham at the election. Tories there had no one
sensible to vote for; now they do. Will Labour and the Lib Dems keep to the
convention that the main parties do not oppose the Speaker? I trust so - for,
given the massive support by Labour for this ghastly little creep to win his
post, and the lack of objection by the Lib Dems to him, any move by either party
to oppose him would remove his mandate to be Speaker. Their sitting it out could
ensure that Mr Farage won: which would be a rare example of justice in politics.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

Weekend: weekending: Something for the weekend..

BYLINE: Priscilla Kwateng

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 57 words


For Elizabethans, it was the colour of mourning; in the early 90s, the colour of
Ukip. Don't let that put you off, though. This autumn/winter, a purple haze has
again descended on the fashion horizon. We're talking opulent intense shades of
purple - bold, verging on overbearing. Spineless lilac and wishy-washy lavender
types need not apply.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

Nigel Farage is the obvious choice to restore 'Order! Order!'

LENGTH: 482 words

ABSTRACT

Simon Hattenstone: Who better to oust Commons speaker John Bercow from his
Buckingham seat than Ukip's celebrated motor-mouth?

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage intends to restore trust in the parliamentary system by  from his
Buckingham seat at the next general election. Hurrah! Having annihilated Bercow,
he will presumably go on to stand as speaker and see off all opposition. Hurrah!
Hurrah!

The speaker is the presiding officer of the House of Commons, the first commoner
of the land, the supervisor of the administration of those who serve the House,
the individual who addresses the Crown on behalf of parliament, and the first
and last word in discipline. In short, someone with responsibility. For good
measure, among UK officials the Speaker ranks above all non-royal individuals
other than the prime minister, lord chancellor and lord president of the council
(whoever/whatever that is).

So who better to restore "Order! Order!" to the Commons than the current leader
of Ukip, , ale-drinker extraordinaire, lap dance champion, Enoch Powell groupie,
self-proclaimed non-racist (even if David Cameron did unfairly  as a bunch of
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists") and wearer of possibly the finest
pin-stripe in Europe?

He is the ideal man to rid the Commons of any hint of expenses-related
corruption and scandal. After all, Farage ruthlessly rooted out corruption in
his own party - of 12 MEPs in the last European parliament, one (former
policeman Tom Wise) was charged with money laundering and false accounting,
while another (Ashley Mote) was jailed for benefit fraud in 2007. Farage has
been tough but fair throughout his tenure at the party. Ukip's head of
communications Clive Page has not commited a single act of benefit fraud since
working for Farage.

The speaker will also be expected to restore transparency to the House. Which
again makes Farage the obvious choice. After all, the Ukip leader selflessly
exposed the farcical expenses/allowances system in Europe by taking £2m of
taxpayers' money in expenses and allowances in his 10 years as an MEP. With
knowing irony, he further exposed the lack of transparency in the European
Parliament by voting against the need for further tranparency in the EU.

Finally, there is the matter of discipline. Again, the married father of four
has a proven track record. As Latvian lovely Liga told the News of the World in
2006, "I was quite shocked when he asked me to smack him during love-making ...
He asked me if I would put him over my knee, but I refused, although I did give
in and give him a few gentle taps while we were having sex ... It was like he
needed for me to dominate him, he enjoyed being controlled. I found it all a bit
weird."

Vote, vote, vote for Nigel Farage, as Dennis Potter almost said all those years
ago. The job's as good as his.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Farage (n): a bombardment of nonsense;
David Aaronovitch The absurd MEP should oppose Bercow

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 433 words


Farage: noun - from barrage out of barrer (French) to obstruct, and farrago
(Latin) mess, or cattle-feed - meaning a bombardment of nonsense. Or so the
dictionary definition ought to read, for the retiring leader of the UK
Independence Party, Nigel Farage, is a co-creator of one of the most absurd
traditions in modern British political history. He is, par excellence, a
practitioner of farage.

Consider. In 2004 UKIP managed to get Robert Kilroy-Silk, a later to-be-jailed
fraudster and a clutch of no-marks into the European Parliament while recording
2.65 million votes. In 2009, in the wake of the expenses scandal, UKIP under his
leadership sent a slightly different bunch of folk (including Barbara Cartland's
grandson, the 10th Earl of Dartmouth), claiming a breakthrough success, yet
contriving to lose 150,000 of their voters.

UKIP appeals to a palaeolithic section of the Conservative vote, which - lacking
any courage in its withdrawalist convictions - rightly understands that its
interests are better served by Tory anti-EU rhetoric than by actually pulling
out of Europe. UKIP is the largest group in a European Parliament alliance that
comprises Slovakian anti-Gypsy nationalists, Dutch Christian fundamentalists,
the weird quasi-separatists of the Italian Northern League and the anti-Muslim
Danish Folkeparti, whose Faragian representative (one Morten Messerschmidt) has
accused Muslims of being "incapable of critical thinking".

There is nothing I like about Mr Farage's politics and little more about his
personality; it is sufficient to say that every class at a boy's school in the
1950s and '70s had a Farage. Nevertheless, he is quite right to stand against Mr
Speaker Bercow in Buckingham at the next election, even if his reasons - that Mr
Bercow is somehow morally deficient - seem harsh.

Mr Farage is right to break the convention about the Speaker's seat not being
contested, for two reasons. The first is that it's a bad convention, taking the
decision about who should represent them out of the hands of the voters and
investing it instead wholly with party managers. If voters want the Speaker to
be their MP, they can vote for him. If they don't, not.

But the second reason is that it isn't much of a convention anyway. Speaker
Martin was opposed in 2005 by six candidates, from the SNP to the BNP, thus
covering the political spectrum from A to about F. In 1974 Speaker Selwyn Lloyd
was opposed by Liberal and Labour candidates in the Wirral. The same happened to
Speaker Weatherill in 1987. And in both cases the sky remained intact - as it
will after 2010's little farage.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Speakers opposed;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 94 words


Sir, The "unwritten rule" that the Speaker's seat should not be contested was
devised very recently ("UKIP aims to oust Speaker by breaking unwritten rule
that seat is not contested", Sept 4).

All Speakers who sought re-election between 1945 and Margaret Thatcher's final
campaign were opposed, several of them by candidates from the main parties. In
1987 official Labour and SDP/Liberal alliance candidates stood against Speaker
Weatherill, leaving him with a majority that was only slightly higher than when
he stood as a Conservative in 1983.

alistair cooke London SW1

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

SAINTLY TOM'S A BIT OF A PAIN

BYLINE: REVIEWS BY QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 559 words


VERDICT: A TOUCH PREACHY

A NEW WORLD (SHAKESPEARE'S GLOBE)

SHAKESPEARE'S Globe, that thatched, openair affair down near London Bridge,
occasionally branches into new work. The latest is about Thomas Paine, the
last-maker who in his 30s left Norfolk to become an influential journalist in
18th-century America.

Paine's amazing story, from obscure East Anglian to anti-colonial revolutionary,
is an under-realised asset. Surely there must be a Hollywood film about him some
day -- particularly now that President Obama has declared himself a Paine
disciple.

As author of Rights Of Man, Paine helped to create the United States and shaped
its ideas of political representation.

What a belter of a bloke he must have been, a natural troublemaker careless of
his own poverty, fuelled by distaste for established power.

The one snag is that he did so much. It is hard to boil down Paine to three
hours of drama.

Do you concentrate on his friendship with George Washington? Do you examine his
disenchantment with the French Revolution he joined? Do you dig into his deism
and chew on the differences between his Age of Reason and today's clip-on
worship of Dawkins and atheism?

All this without really starting to examine his side-career as a bridge
engineer, let alone his family life, such as it was. There is so much in Tom
Paine that a dramatist has to be ruthless.

In A New World, Trevor Griffiths might not have been ruthless enough. Playwright
Griffiths takes a literal approach, cramming in historical tales alongside
earnest scenes of scholarly decency.

Paine becomes such a saintly figure that it is hard to accept him as real flesh
and blood. He is played by handsome John Light, who is good at scowling and
looking 'deep'.

But where is the molten core of this Paine? Where is his wildness? What inspires
the bravery that saw him publish such bold polemics against the English Crown
and against organised religion?

Paine's love life is given sparse treatment, first some warmth towards a widow
(Laura Rogers), then his stilted attraction to a Parisian beauty (Alix Riemer,
often inaudible).

Would Tom Paine, the hurtling journalist, the slashing polemicist and foe of the
clergy (one of his anti-Church lines won a squawk of appreciation from an
elderly woman in the audience), really have been such a dry prune in love?

At times, this show feels more like an Open University lecture than a work of
dramatic art. In keeping with its venue, it is all a little too caught up in
re-creating heritage, complete with a surfeit of accordion music.

Director Dominic Dromgoole has drilled a large cast well. Dominic Rowan makes a
raffish, interesting Washington. Keith Bartlett's Benjamin Franklin wanders
round the stage as narrator, giving us the occasional twinkle.

But surely Tom Paine deserves something with a little more mustard on the plate.

The likes of Paine and Washington, who stood up to the great power blocs of
18th-century Europe, must have been more than mere textbook worthies.

Surely they must have been mercurial, unpredictable, possessing something of the
eccentricity and bloodymindedness of the political loners who currently fight
for our independence from the modern empire of Europe.

I suspect Tom Paine might well have been a member of UKIP, and maybe a lively
blogger, had he lived today. But you never get any whiff of that from this
po-faced portrait.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

MEPs are offered;
a 'lively' question time of their own

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 549  words


THE President of the European Commission pledged yesterday to breathe political
life into debates at Strasbourg by appearing before MEPs in a regular
Westminster-style "Question Time''.

José Manuel Barroso promised "regular participation in a question hour in the
European Parliament'' as part of a policy statement setting out his political
stall.

The Portuguese is fighting for his political life and to secure a second term as
chairman of the European Union's executive of 27 commissioners by winning a vote
in the parliament on September 16.

MEPs have long demanded that commissioners appear for a Westminster-style
grilling.

But the request has been resisted by officials who are wary of public argument
and who are more comfortable with consensus politics behind closed doors.

Mr Barroso's aides have suggested that as well as providing accountability the
question time will liven up the parliament, after a 30-year low in voter turnout
during European elections in June.

"Some debates lack the spark of spontaneous exchange and directness,'' said Mr
Barroso's spokesman. "This aims to make things a little more political and
lively, even with a little bit of sparring. It will never be quite like Prime
Minister's Questions in the House of Commons but it will show that Europe has
political life.''

MEPs hope that they can use the question time to emulate the success of Daniel
Hannan, their Conservative colleague, whose grilling of Gordon Brown during a
Brussels debate became a YouTube hit, with more than 2.4 million internet
viewers.

Mr Hannan welcomed the move as a departure from debates that were "scripted in
advance''. "Just the possibility of something unexpected happening will make the
parliament much more interesting and worth attending,'' he said.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, expressed relish at the
prospect. "If Barroso wants sparring, he will certainly get it from me,'' he
said.

In his 41-page policy statement, Mr Barroso adopted the mantle of being "an
implacable defender'' of the EU's single market.  "The recent crisis showed that
there remains a short-term temptation to roll back the single market when times
are hard,'' stated the policy plan. "There were attempts to use the crisis to
attack the single market.''

The next European Commission, if headed by Mr Barroso, would use its five-year
mandate to "regain momentum'' as the single market, created by Jacques Delors, a
Frenchman, approaches its 20th anniversary in 2012.

The comments were aimed at Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, who is known
to be hostile to a second term for Mr Barroso and who has criticised his
commission's economically liberal policies.

Britain has given an enthusiastic endorsement to Mr Barroso. "We believe that
Barroso is the right person for the job,'' said a Government spokesman. "Today,
Barroso has shown that he has the overall vision and commitment to lead the EU
out of the global downturn.''

Beginning with the Conservatives next Monday, Mr Barroso begins a week-long
series of meetings with political groups in the parliament to drum up support
ahead the Strasbourg vote in two weeks.

Michal Kaminski, the Polish leader of David Cameron's new European Conservatives
and Reformists group of MEPs, expressed support for Mr Barroso's "ambitious
agenda''.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

UKIP leader plans to oust Speaker as MP

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 396  words


THE new Commons Speaker is facing a move to oust him as an MP, just months after
he took the chair in the wake of the expenses scandal.

John Bercow, the Tory MP for Buckingham, will be challenged at the general
election by Nigel Farage, an MEP and leader of the UK Independence Party.

Mr Bercow is an unpopular figure among the Tory ranks at Westminster and won the
Speaker contest largely thanks to the support of Labour MPs. Mr Farage believes
he can attract support from Conservative voters disillusioned with Mr Bercow.

"This man represents all that is wrong with British politics today,'' said Mr
Farage. "He was embroiled in the expenses saga and he presides over a Parliament
that virtually does nothing. He is not a Conservative and yet he is sitting in
one of the safest Conservative seats in the country. It means the people of
Buckingham cannot vote for a Conservative even if they want to.

"This is a part of England where we did very well in the European elections and
local elections. We are very well organised and strong and I intend to fight
this very hard to become the MP.''

But Mr Farage, an MEP for the region covering the Buckingham constituency, faces
a daunting battle to overturn Mr Bercow's majority of 18,129.

Convention dictates that the other main parties do not put up candidates in the
sitting Speaker's constituency. Labour and the Liberal Democrats will now have
to decide whether Mr Farage's intervention alters that position.

Mr Bercow was a controversial choice for Speaker. He was elected after Michael
Martin was forced to resign over his poor handling of the MPs' expenses scandal.
But he won the position with almost no support from fellow Conservative MPs.
Instead, his success was down to the backing of Labour MPs, who knew he was
mistrusted by his own side.

There has been talk that an independent Conservative candidate could try to
unseat Mr Bercow. David Cameron is likely to remain silent on the issue, but
some Tory MPs would be privately pleased if Mr Bercow was defeated.

Mr Bercow said: "I am happy to be judged on my track record over 12 years as MP
for Buckingham, my continuing commitment to the constituency and my
determination to restore faith in Parliament.''

Last month, The Daily Telegraph disclosed Mr Bercow has spent  pounds 20,000 of
taxpayers' money on refurbishing the Speaker's apartment in the Palace of
Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip chief to fight Speaker at next poll

SECTION: NEWS; 32

LENGTH: 109  words


THE leader of anti-EU party Ukip, Nigel Farage, will challenge Commons Speaker
John Bercow at the next election, the group said yesterday.

Mr Farage may have a good chance in the safe Tory seat if Labour and the Lib
Dems stick to the onvention that major parties do not stand against the Speaker.

Mr Bercow was Conservative MP for Buckingham until June when he renounced party
loyalty on his election as Speaker.

Mr Farage is MEP for the region which includes Buckingham, and hopes to attract
disaffected Tories deprived of a chance to vote Conservative.

Mr Bercow said: "I am more than happy to be judged on my track record over 12
years as MP for Buckingham."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip chief to fight Speaker at next poll

SECTION: NEWS; 32

LENGTH: 109  words


THE leader of anti-EU party Ukip, Nigel Farage, will challenge Commons Speaker
John Bercow at the next election, the group said yesterday.

Mr Farage may have a good chance in the safe Tory seat if Labour and the Lib
Dems stick to the onvention that major parties do not stand against the Speaker.

Mr Bercow was Conservative MP for Buckingham until June when he renounced party
loyalty on his election as Speaker.

Mr Farage is MEP for the region which includes Buckingham, and hopes to attract
disaffected Tories deprived of a chance to vote Conservative.

Mr Bercow said: "I am more than happy to be judged on my track record over 12
years as MP for Buckingham."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

National: Politics: Ukip leader to oppose Speaker at election

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 92 words


The leader of the United Kingdom Independence party will stand against John
Bercow, the Commons Speaker, at the general election. Nigel Farage said that he
would be standing in Buckingham because Bercow had been "embroiled in the
expenses saga" and represented "all that is wrong with British politics today".
Bercow, who had a majority of 18,129 in 2005 when he was elected as a
Conservative MP, said he would be "more than happy" to be judged on his record.
Farage will be Bercow's only serious rival as the main parties do not contest
the Speaker's seat.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SPEAKER IN POLL BATTLE

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 190 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage is to stand against the Speaker John Bercow at the next
election in protest at the MPs' expenses scandal.

Mr Farage claimed Buckingham MP Mr Bercow represented "all that was wrong with
British politics today". By convention, parties do not field candidates against
the Commons Speaker but the Independence Party leader said voters need a chance
to protest the expenses row.

Mr Farage, MEP for the region, said: "He was embroiled in the expenses saga and
he presides over a Parliament that virtually does nothing. He is not a
Conservative and yet he is sitting in one of the safest Conservative seats. It
means the people of Buckingham cannot vote for a Conservative even if they want
to."

But he faces a battle to beat Mr Bercow, who replaced ousted speaker Michael
Martin and won his Buckingham seat with an 18,129 majority at the election. It
was claimed he "flipped" his second home in the expenses row.

Mr Bercow brushed aside the challenge. He said: "I'm happy to be judged on my
record over 12 years as MP for Buckingham, my continuing commitment to the
constituency and determination to restore faith in Parliament."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Britain - News in brief

LENGTH: 219 words


UKIP leader to take on Bercow

POLITICS: UKIP leader Nigel Farage is to stand against Commons Speaker John
Bercow at the next election, the party said yesterday.

It posted the news on its website prior to a formal announcement today from Mr
Farage at the UKIP annual conference.

Mr Farage is an MEP for the South-East region, which contains Mr Bercow's
constituency, one of the safest Tory seats in the country.

Postcards trump Twitter website

TECHNOLOGY: Twitter may be a 21st century phenomenon, but researchers said
yesterday that the Edwardians were "tweeting" first.

In the days before micro-blogging, text messages and social-networking sites,
the public were using the humble postcard to impart their thoughts and opinions.

Introduced in 1902, the picture postcard, containing an image on one side and
room for writing on the other, became an instant hit.

Boys & girls have different dreams

EMPLOYMENT: Most boys dream about being a footballer while girls want to be
teachers a new study revealed yesterday.

Research among 2,000 adults on their dream jobs when they were younger also
found that some boys yearned to be pilots, while becoming a businesswomen
appealed to some girls.

The Careers Advice Service said its survey also showed that three out of four
people had different career goals now to when they were younger.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 121 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Feature - Rolling back democratic deficits;
We must cast small differences aside to put Britain back on the right course,
says Derek Wall

BYLINE: Derek Wall

LENGTH: 730 words


With the Green Party meeting for its annual autumn conference in Brighton this
weekend, now seems like a good time to look at where the party is going and
assess its potential for bringing real political change.

There is a growing ecological crisis on this planet. While climate change might
grab the headlines, it is part of a wider set of problems.

Nature is being chewed up at accelerating rates to fuel economic expansion - and
it cannot be sustained.

Green politics is about far more than the environment. Key Green values include
social justice, grass-roots democracy and peace. Britain is failing on all these
fronts.

Since Margaret Thatcher's election victory in 1979, neoliberal governments have
rolled back trade union rights, promoted privatisation and inequality has grown.

There is a democratic deficit, with voters having less and less say, and the
political class morphing into a group of policy-light careerists.

There is a huge amount of work needed to promote progressive politics in Britain
and without proportional representation, it's tough for the Greens to introduce
the necessary transformation.

We need major constitutional change, real powers for local authorities and a
trade union freedom Bill to start rolling back the democratic deficit and giving
citizens rather than corporate interests a real say.

We really need a constituent assembly to debate, design and implement a new
democracy for Britain. Modest constitutional progress in Scotland and Wales has
not been paralleled in England.

From rail nationalisation to higher top-rate income taxes, the Green Party has a
range of progressive economic and social policies.

Strong trade union policies are also important.

Time is slipping away on the environment and, what with the government using
carbon trading - where we can buy supposed cuts from another part of the world,
rather than reducing emissions in Britain - real action is needed.

Green Party policies such as the Green new deal, based on a massive roll-out of
renewable energy, have the potential to create jobs and cut greenhouse gases.

Our autumn conference is going to see a renewed emphasis on our policies of
social justice, with leader Caroline Lucas calling for action to curb the
bankers who are still threatening economic stability and funding
eco-destruction.

For example, RBS, despite being government owned, is investing in the highly
polluting Canadian tar sands.

There will also be important policy debates on childcare, the Afghan war and a
rally where Green Party MEP Jean Lambert will call for stronger opposition to
right-wing anti-immigration politics in Britain.

The party has a strong and dynamic eco-socialist wing based around the Green
left.

In the European elections, the party pushed its vote above 8 per cent. We have
over 100 principle authority councillors and membership has risen by 1,000 this
year.

The party needs to put its energy into electing Lucas as its first MP in the
coming general election. Showing that the party can win parliamentary seats,
even without a fair voting system, is of great importance.

However, electoral success is only part of the process and even at this level,
the Green Party cannot succeed alone.

The direct action work of the Climate Camp, where 1,000 activists gathered under
a banner of "Less capitalism, more future," is another inspiring example of
Green politics.

Greens need to put their energy into electing Lucas and other potential Green
MPs. But to break the neoliberal stranglehold, it is important that other
candidates from the left win seats.

The Green Party is a decentralised political party - it does not have bosses at
the centre barking orders.

But I hope that local Green parties can talk to other progressive candidates
such as Salma Yaqoob, who is on course to be a Respect Party MP in Birmingham.

British parliamentary politics is set up to make it difficult for parties
outside the neoliberal big three of Labour, Lib Dems and Conservatives to win
seats.

With a rise in populist politics, the press are diverting voters to UKIP and
even the far-right BNP.

Those on the left of British politics need to talk and work together, even if
this is sometimes difficult.

Democracy, social justice, peace and ecological sanity are vital issues and we
must put aside relatively small differences to work for their realisation.

- Derek Wall is former Green Party joint principal speaker.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GOOD ON YOU, NIGE

BYLINE: Jon Gaunt

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 118 words


CONGRATULATIONS to Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, who has decided to stick
two fingers up to Parliamentary custom and stand against the Squeaker of the
House of Commons, John Berk-oh, in his constituency at the General Election.

It is tradition that the main parties never field opponents to a sitting
Speaker. But this is the kind of outdated and anti-democratic custom that helped
lead to the expenses scandal - and it should be scrapped.

Meanwhile, good to see that the expenses disgrace hasn't stopped the elevation
of the previous Speaker, the discredited and useless Michael Martin, to the next
carriage of the gravy train called the Lords.

Then they wonder why I christened them all self-serving pigs.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP aims to oust Speaker by breaking unwritten rule that seat is not contested

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 400 words


Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, yesterday broke with
tradition by declaring that he will stand against the Speaker of the House of
Commons in the next general election.

Mr Farage said that he will try to wrestle the Buckingham seat from John Bercow,
who was elected Speaker in June, in protest at Westminster's handling of the
MPs' expenses scandal. Convention dictates that the Speaker, who is supposed to
stand above party politics, is not challenged in his constituency. Mr Farage
said: "This man represents all that is wrong with British politics today. He was
embroiled in the expenses saga and presides over a Parliament doing virtually
nothing."

Under parliamentary rules, the Speaker renounces all affiliation with his former
political party when taking office to preserve his non-partisan role but he
remains an MP. Mr Bercow was elected as a Tory for the Buckingham seat in 1997,
and in May 2005 was re-elected with an increased majority of 18,129. He angered
many of his former Conservative colleagues during his campaign for the
Speakership, which succeeded with the sizeable support of Labour backbenchers.

Although David Cameron refused to be drawn on whether he will observe the
convention of the Speaker's seat not being contested, a Conservative candidate
in Buckingham is unlikely.

Mr Farage added: "Bercow has a massive majority from constituents who thought
they were voting for a Conservative but they weren't, they were voting for him.
Bercow has sold out on everything and taken everything new Labour stood for,
especially over the question of Europe, where he has shown ardent support."

UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the European Union, said that Mr
Farage would announce formally his intention to stand against Mr Bercow at the
party's annual conference today.

Mr Bercow was elected after the previous Speaker, Michael Martin, was forced out
over his handling of the expenses affair, in which some MPs were shown to be
claiming taxpayer-funded allowances on items including pornography and moat
cleaning.

UKIP does not have any seats at Westminster but came second behind the
Conservatives in the June election to the European Parliament, leaving Labour
third. Mr Farage is an MEP for the region covering Buckingham, but if he were to
become an MP he would have to resign the European seat.

A spokesman for the Conservative Party declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Farage: fury at MPs' claims

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday

Obituary of Captain Sir Edward Archdale, Bt Submariner whose expert gunner's eye
proved deadly to enemy targets both on land and at sea

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1065  words


CAPTAIN SIR EDWARD ARCHDALE, 3rd Bt, who has died aged 87, was a submariner and
gunnery officer noted for his excellent eye.

In 1942-43 Archdale completed 12 war patrols, mainly in the 600-ton submarine
P42, Unbroken, which was commanded by Lieutenant-Commander Alastair Mars. Within
moments of surfacing, its three-inch gun would be manned, and Archdale would be
able to hit a target while the water was still draining off the boat's casing.
His first victim, on April 26 1942, was the Italian sailing vessel Vale Formoso,
damaged off Bordighera, Liguria.

Another typical target was a railway at Longobardi in southern Italy. In his
book Unbroken: the Story of a Submarine (1953), Mars described what happened
when Archdale opened fire: "The shell screamed through the air and exploded with
a tremendous crash. A hit, by God! There was a vivid blue flash as the overhead
wires were brought down, and in its brilliance I saw the engine detach itself
from the coaches and idle down the track.

"Again the gun roared, and again. After five rounds, all of them hits, the
carriages and trucks were crackling merrily with dancing yellow fires. The
signal lights were out - the power was off. Archdale transferred his attention
to the engine and methodically blew it to pieces.''

Archdale was at the "fruit machine'', the submarine's analogue computer, when
Mars attacked an Italian squadron in the Ionian Sea, having penetrated the heavy
screen of destroyers and aircraft. With one salvo of four torpedoes, the
submarine damaged both the heavy cruiser Bolzano and the cruiser Muzio
Attendolo.

Archdale was awarded a DSC for his outstanding bravery, skill and devotion to
duty.

Descended from a Plantation family in Northern Ireland, Edward Folmer Archdale
was born at Portsmouth on September 8 1921. His grandfather had been a Tory MP
at Westminster and later a member of the Northern Ireland parliament, becoming
the province's minister of agriculture; he was created a baronet in 1928.

Edward's father was a First World War submariner who subsequently became
Vice-Admiral Sir Nicholas Archdale, 2nd Bt. He served as an ADC to King George V
and was later general inspector with the ministry of home affairs in Northern
Ireland from 1931 to 1946.

Teddy Archdale's Danish mother sent him to Copthorne prep school in Sussex, from
where he entered Dartmouth in the Rodney term of 1935. He continued his training
in the cruisers Vindictive and Edinburgh after war broke out, and in early May
1940 was sent as a midshipman to the destroyer Sabre, under the command of
Lieutenant-Commander Brian Dean. On May 30 Sabre made two voyages to Dunkirk, in
which she embarked 1,500 men despite damage sustained from heavy air attacks.

After temporary repairs, Sabre made several more trips to the beaches, and on
June 2 she answered Vice-Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay's call for volunteers: "The
final evacuation is staged for tonight and the nation looks to the Navy to see
this through.''

By the time Sabre returned to Dover she had brought her tally of soldiers borne
to safety to 5,765. Dean was awarded a DSO on June 6 for helping to organise the
withdrawal under fire to England of 335,490 officers and men, and Archdale was
mentioned in despatches for his part in it.

Six days later Sabre was sent on Operation Aerial, the evacuation of troops and
civilians from ports in north-west France and the Bay of Biscay; and on June 23
Archdale helped to carry some 1,400 people from Alderney to Weymouth.

After completing his training in the battlecruiser Hood and the destroyer
Bulldog, Archdale volunteered for "the trade''.

When his time in Unbroken was up he returned to general service, teaching at the
gunnery school, HMS Excellent, and serving in the Naval Ordnance Department. He
was gunnery officer of the first-of-class large destroyer Daring and was fleet
gunnery officer on the staff of the Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean, from 1956
to 1958.

Archdale was a member of the directing staff of the Royal Naval Tactical School
from 1959 to 1962 and then served for two years at the Admiralty. He attended
the Joint Services Staff College at Latimer, the Senior Officers' War College at
Greenwich, and the Canadian National Defence College at Kingston, Ontario.

His last appointment was as Captain of the Dockyard and Queen's Harbour Master,
Chatham, before he left the Navy to work in the somewhat shadowy world of
defence sales.

After retiring from the Ministry of Defence, Archdale became involved in local
politics in Northern Ireland, favouring a power-sharing agreement between the
rival factions. As a councillor at Comber, outside Belfast, he was a strong
supporter of the Comber Charity's aim to build better futures for children with
disabilities.

Freed from the restraints of service life, Archdale was a trenchant
letter-writer to The Daily Telegraph, particularly in defence of the Navy. He
described John Nott's proposed cuts in surface ships, which were subsequently
scuppered by the Falklands War, as a dazzling sleight of hand.

"A 12 per cent cut in manpower cannot be explained as strengthening our
defences,'' he declared - while the loss of two aircraft carriers could not be
compensated for by the retention of two land-based Buccaneer squadrons already
in service. He remained strongly suspicious of RAF ambitions to secure a
disproportionate share of the defence budget.

He also defended the Irish language against suggestions that it was a bogus
invention of schoolmasters and clergymen.

A Conservative for much of his life, he sympathised with the philosophy of
Social Credit. On moving back to England in his later years, he gave his
political allegiance to UKIP.

His former commander Alastair Mars, who won a DSO for his service in Unbroken,
rated Archdale "very fair, very precise''; and friends appreciated Archdale's
direct and determined character, his strong sense of humour and his ability to
defuse the tensest of situations with a flippant remark. His children remember
the magic tricks he performed at the breakfast table to persuade them to eat
their boiled eggs.

Edward Archdale died on July 31. He married, in 1954, Elizabeth, daughter of
Major-General Wilfrid Boyd Fellowes Lukis, Royal Marines. The marriage was
dissolved in 1978. One daughter predeceased him, and he is survived by another,
Lucinda, and by a son, Nicholas (born in 1965), who succeeds in the baronetcy.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday

Bercow faces challenge from Ukip's Farage at next election

LENGTH: 499 words

ABSTRACT

United Kingdom Independence party's leader says current Speaker represents all
that is wrong with British politics today

FULL TEXT

The United Kingdom Independence party is launching a bid to unseat John Bercow,
the new Commons Speaker, at the general election, it emerged today.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, said that he would be standing against the former
Tory in Buckingham because Bercow had been "embroiled in the expenses saga" and
represented "all that is wrong with British politics today".

Bercow, who had a majority of 18,129 in 2005, played down the prospect of
defeat, saying that he would be "more than happy" to be judged on his record.
Ukip came fourth in the seat four years ago, collecting just 1,432 votes.

But Ukip believes that the involvement of Farage, the only Ukip MEP with a
national profile, the absence of a Conservative candidate on the ballot paper
and the controversy surrounding Bercow's election as Speaker could give the
party a chance. Ladbrokes offered odds of 4/1 on Farage beating Bercow.

Speakers normally do not have to worry about re-election because, by convention,
the main parties do not put up candidates against them, although in 2005 Michael
Martin had to fend off a challenge from the Scottish National party and four
minor parties in Glasgow North East to be returned to the Commons.

Some Tories believe that Bercow could be vulnerable in a seat with such a
conservative electorate because he has been identified as being too close to
Labour. Tim Montgomerie, the editor of the , said today: "I'd be tempted to vote
Ukip if I lived in Buckingham. It would be one way of getting a Speaker who
wasn't the choice of Brown's Labour MPs."

Explaining his decision to stand against the Speaker, Farage said: "He is not a
Conservative and yet he is sitting in one of the safest Conservative seats in
the country. It means the people of Buckingham cannot vote for a Conservative
even if they want to.

"This is a part of England where we did very well in the European elections and
local elections. We are very well organised and strong and I intend to fight
this very hard to become the MP."

As MEP for the south-east England, Farage already represents the region that
covers Bercow's constituency. Under a law that came into force this year, he
would have to choose between Brussels and Westminster if he won because MPs can
no longer also serve as MEPs.

Bercow's election as Speaker was controversial because he was seen as a Labour's
preferred candidate. Most Tory MPs appear to have voted for his main rival, Sir
George Young.

Following revelations about his expenses claims in the Daily Telegraph, Bercow
agreed to pay [#xfffd]6,500 to HM Revenue and Customs because he had sold a
second home without paying capital gains tax.

Bercow did not break the law, but several MPs have decided to refund HM Revenue
HMRC for unpaid capital gains tax because it is now deemed unacceptable for MPs
to avoid paying it when they sell their second homes.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My Simon was just a statistic;
GOVT ATTACKED BY WIDOW AND VOTERS EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: ALEX PEAKE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 692 words


THE grief-stricken widow of a British soldier killed in Afghanistan bitterly
accused the Ministry of Defence last night of treating her hero husband as "just
a statistic".

Gemma Valentine opened her heart for the first time since hubby Simon fell
victim to an explosion while on foot patrol two weeks ago.

She spoke as a Sun survey revealed massive public dissatisfaction with the
Government's support for Our Boys and Girls at war.

And Gemma, 27, made it clear that in her experience, the poor treatment can even
extend to the dead and their loved ones.

The mum of two said: "Simon's coffin, arranged by the MoD, had the wrong date of
birth and date of death on it.

"They haven't even arranged for any professional member of staff to come and see
our daughters, to explain what has happened and help them through the grief.

"The MoD treat Our Boys as no more than statistics. "

Our shocking front page picture yesterday of a ramshackle Army shower block
exposed the slum conditions troops endure while risking life and limb battling
the Taliban.

Backing The Sun's Don't You Know There's A Bloody War On campaign , campaign,
Gemma said: "There is a stark contrast between conditions the Americans have and
what we have.

"When Simon was with American troops for a couple of days, he said it was like a
vacation.

"I doubt if Americans could live like our men do. It speaks volumes for what
kind of men ours are.

"They always make the best of what they have. That is their professional manner.
We need to give Our Boys and their families better support."

Gemma's husband of seven years, Sergeant Simon Valentine, 29, of the 2nd Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers, died in Helmand on August 15. He was the 201st Briton to
die.

His death left Gemma to bring up their children Chantelle, 11, and Niamh, five,
alone.

She decided to speak out because she feels let down since receiving the "knock
on the door" with the news all service wives dread.

Gemma, of Uxbridge, Middlesex, said: "Two people came round - it was such a blur
I don't know who they were. I had no one with me.

"They sat with me for three hours and made me tea and talked and were fantastic.
But then they left.

"You are then left to explain to your children - when you can't really find the
words.

"There needs to be something in place that is really missing for those first few
days.

"Even if you can just call someone and ask, 'How do I explain to my
five-year-old daughter'?

"Other than the visiting officer, who organised the funeral, I have had nothing.
My youngest daughter thought her dad had died of a heartattack because I didn't
explain.

"There needs to be a support network for the people left behind." Gemma is now
raising money for the Force's Children's Trust charity.

It has been set up to offer help and support to children whose parents have been
killed in conflict. To donate, log on to www.justgiving.com/sgtsimonvalentine

a.peake@the-sun.co.uk

Very well Fairly well Fairly badly badly Don't know Neither well nor badly Very
well Fairly well Fairly badly badly Don't know Neither well nor badly
Conservative Labour Lib Dem UKIP BNP SNP/ Plaid Cymru Green 42% 17% 5% 3% 3% 2%
David Cameron doing well or badly as Conservative leader? Gordon Brown doing
well badly as Prime Minister? Which of these would make the best Prime Minister?
36 36 36 6 29 29 15 15 8 6 14 14 21 21 21 2 2 30 30 31 31 Gordon Brown David
Cameron Nick Clegg Don't know 19 38 10 33 28%

0 10 20 30 40 50 0 40 50 10 20 30 0 20 30 40 50 10 0 10 20 30 40 50 Strongly
agreeng y gly agre agreeTend agreTend ag 11 29 27 19 39 29 14 41 31 11 14 34 39
5 6 7 Very well Fairly well Fairly badly Don't know Very badly Neither well nor
badly 26 8 20 23 22 as Defence Secretary? Troops in Afghanistan are making our
lives safer here in Britain The quality of equipment our troops are provided
with in Afghanistan is good enough to get the job done Injured soldiers are not
given the treatment they deserve by the British government Soldiers should be
paid more than their usual salary when they are serving in places like
Afghanistan 6 1 Figures exclude don't knows Very good Fairly good Fairly bad
Very bad 3% 21% 33% 35% Figures exclude don't knows

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fight ... yesterday
Campaign ... Sun
War widow ... Gemma Valentine
On patrol . . hero Simon Valentine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CASUALTY OF WAR;
PM's poll battering over Afghanistan Tories heading for election landslide
EXCLUSIVE WAR CASUALTY

BYLINE: GEORGE PASCOE-WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 447 words


GORDON Brown is heading for a crushing defeat at the next election with voters
believing he is failing our troops in Afghanistan, a vital Sun poll reveals
today.

Tory David Cameron will sweep to power with a 96-seat Commons majority, the
survey predicts.

Seven in ten voters think Mr Brown's government is doing a "very bad" or One
"fairly bad" job of supporting Our Boys in the Afghan conflict.

In a further blow to the PM, twice as many voters believe Britain's armed forces
would be better off in Mr Cameron's hands than Mr Brown's. Our exclusive YouGov
survey, the most crucial for five years, shows the Tories 14 points up on
Labour.

If repeated at an election next May, that would give Mr Cameron 42 per cent of
the vote with Labour trailing on 28 and the Lib Dems on 17.

And the Tories would comfortably bring 13 years of New Labour rule to an end.

The survey is particularly significant as every August poll carried out before a
spring election since 1996 has predicted the result to within one per cent. It
shows 38 per cent of voters believe Mr Cameron would make the best PM compared
to just 19 per cent for Mr Brown.

Six out of ten voters say Mr Brown - also on the rack over the release of the
Lockerbie bomber - is doing fairly or very badly in No10. Only 16 per cent think
he is doing a good job.

Labour's rating has actually risen by two points since the last YouGov poll.

But the Tory lead and the strength of public opinion on Afghanistan will bring
little comfort to Mr Brown. However, our survey also shows Mr Cameron still has
work to do to boost opinion about his potential Cabinet.

Only 34 per cent believe he has the right team to lead Britain.

And voters are evenly split over whether he has the right policies to rule.

Nearly half say they do not believe Mr Cameron when he says he is committed to
saving the NHS.

But nearly seven in ten think the extra billions spent on the NHS has been
wasted instead of boosting patient services.

And 69 per cent insist that no more should be invested without a shake-up to
improve efficiency.

YouGov surveyed 1,996 adults on August 27 and 28.

FIGHTING TALK - PAGE 22

Very well Fairly well Fairly badly Very badly Don't know Neither well nor badly
Very well Fairly well Fairly badly Very badly Don't know Neither well nor badly
How would you vote in an election? Conservative Labour Lib Dem UKIP BNP SNP/
Plaid Cymru Green 42% 17% 5% 3% 3% 2% Is David Cameron doing well or badly as
Conservative leader? Is Gordon Brown doing well or badly as Prime Minister?
Which of these would make the best Prime Minister? 36 36 36 6 29 29 15 15 8 6
POLL 14 14 21 21 21 2 2 30 30 31 31 Gordon Brown David Cameron Nick Clegg Don't
know 19 38 10 33 28% C S

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 3, 2009 Thursday 12:36 PM GMT

Speaker John Bercow: the best reason in the world for voting UKIP

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 422 words


Here's a video of Tory MP John Bercow being characteristically charming.

Watch it, squirm at the man's grotesque mix of prickliness, cockiness,
chippiness, pent-up aggression - and eerie resemblance to that Seventies-style
novelty glass bird filled with red liquid that dips back and forth violently
when you put water underneath - and then rejoice at the fact that this Brownite
stooge in Tory clothing may yet be booted out of parliament at the next General
Election by UKIP leader Nigel Farage.

I know what exercises some people most about Bercow is his dismal showing in the
recent MPs swine trough scandal. As the Telegraph reported, he:

"Flipped his second home from a    house in his constituency to a 540,000 flat
in London, which he claimed    maximum second home allowances on for four years
running.

"He failed to pay capital gains tax after buying and selling properties in both
his constituency and in the Capital, and later agreed to hand over 6,500 to
HM Revenue and Customs."

But what bothers me personally far more is that though he sits in the truest of
blue Tory constituencies, he seems to have not the remotest idea what it means
to be a Conservative. Here is a man so loathed by his party - even the Blairite
Cameroon fringe - that the only reason he got the Speakers job was through
tactical voting. Few if any Tories voted for him. Almost everyone in Labour did
because they knew how maddening it would be for Conservatives to have to put up
with a Speaker they found even more noisome than the appalling Michael Martin.

(Helpful guide for any American readers: John Bercow is our Arlen Specter. Now
do you see why we so loathe the man?)

To the voters in Bercow's Buckinghamshire seat, I say: "Don't vote on party
lines. Vote for your principles." I can't imagine there's a single Tory voter in
Bucks, for example, who applauded his Blair-style "Britain is a young country"
decision to ditch the speaker's traditional tights and replace them with one of
his dreary grey business suits. The office and its centuries-old traditions are
much bigger than the man and it speaks volumes for Bercow's elephant-skinned
arrogance that he couldn't recognise this.

I realise that a Tory majority of 13,325 will prove quite a job for the UKIP
leader to overthrow. But face it Bucks Tories, on Europe, on immigration, on
tax, on pretty much every key issue, UKIP are so much more your kind of party
than the Conservatives. Go on now. Watch that video again. Do really want to see
this man representing your seat? Well, do you?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 121 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 3, 2009 Thursday 12:04 PM GMT

Nigel Farage poses test for the Tories

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 175 words


Andrew Porter's revelation that Nigel Farage is to stand against John Bercow in
Buckingham (maj 13,325)is making waves. The summer has done nothing to improve
the Speaker's standing among Conservatives it seems. Which is why Mr Farage's
decision is so astute: it immediatelypresents BuckinghamTories with a
dilemma.Tim says he might be tempted to vote UKIP if he lived in the
constituency. Any readers who are registered to vote in Buckingham should get in
touch.

By the way, this is how Mr Farage put it: "This man represents all that is wrong
with British politics today. He was embroiled in the expenses saga and he
presides over a Parliament that virtually does nothing. He is not a Conservative
and yet he is sitting in one of the safest Conservative seats in the country. It
means the people of Buckingham cannot vote for a Conservative even if they want
to. This is a part of England where we did very well in the European elections
and local elections. We are very well organised and strong and I intend to fight
this very hard to become the MP."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
