
                               1 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 31, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Will the Tories cut GPs' wages? And is Lord Ashcroft bankrolling your party?;
You ask the questions Andrew Lansley Conservative Health Spokesman

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1353 words


Can you provide an assurance that the Conservatives would not compel people to
have their medical records stored on a computer system?

MARCUS WILLIAMSON, BY EMAIL

No. Many GP practices and hospitals are now operating on the basis of creating
records only in electronic formats. What I can assure you of is that we will
stop the automatic uploading of data to a central server with it being available
across the NHS network without patients' consent. Patients should have a right
to opt out of data-sharing. We will also enable patients to exercise more
control over their own records.

First, how will a Conservative government get more money into the NHS? Will it
be through taxation or insurance funding by stealth? Second, is the rumour that
waiting lists are not guaranteed to stay at the current historically low levels
under a Conservative administration well-founded? BOB RICHARDSON, BY EMAIL

We are committed to an NHS funded through taxation available to all based on
need, not ability to pay. On your second question, because we are committed to
increasing NHS capacity and improving results, and making hospitals accountable
to patient choice, waiting lists and times should fall. The reduction in waiting
lists has essentially been the result of capacity increases, not Labour's
tick-box targets. Most importantly, the priority for treatment should be based
on clinical judgement and clinical priority, not central political targets.

We know from America that multiple healthcare providers equals massive
administrative costs, huge profits for private providers and poor healthcare for
the general population (but excellent healthcare for the rich). Is this the
Conservative vision of the NHS of the future?

MARTIN NORRIS, LONDON

No. The Conservative vision for the future of the NHS is to combine equitable
access to healthcare for all, with health outcomes as good as any in the world,
based on a service which is responsive to patients' needs and wishes, with
enhanced responsibility for clinicians who are more accountable for the quality
and results they achieve.

GPs willingly accept that their pay deal was ridiculously overgenerous. Will you
reduce their wages to more sensible levels?

ANDREW SELBY, BY EMAIL

The GP contract was seriously flawed. The issue now is how to ensure that GPs
are both well-paid senior professionals, and that they have the responsibility
for the management and care of their patients which should go alongside that.

With the knowledge that the NHS has debts running into billions of pounds, don't
you think it's time for this Government to take full responsibility by taking
over the NHS, thus controlling it, looking at where finance is best placed and
thereby reducing a risk such as seen with the world banking deficit?

JILLY HEAD, BY EMAIL

Centralised control of the NHS is what led to the loss of financial control in
the NHS four years ago. The NHS is a public service and there will be public
accountability for spending and for living within budgets. But the effective use
of resources depends upon getting resources and decision-making closer to
patients and in a way that matches resources to needs more efficiently. By doing
so, we can cut the costs of bureaucracy in the service.

Roughly how many times a week do you wish that Dan Hannan kept his mouth shut,
or was a member of UKIP instead?

CHARLOTTE ROLL, BY EMAIL

I don't.

Why has Daniel Hannan not had the Tory Whip removed after his comments on Fox TV
(twice) about the NHS?

HENRY TINSLEY, BY EMAIL

Because party discipline should not extend to the censorship of individual
views.

Surely it is not possible for voters to trust your party with the health service
given the strength of animosity shown by elected members and the strong right
wing of your party? I speak as someone who knows that when you need it, the
health service is there for you with great efficiency.

TONY WALLIS, BY EMAIL

Voters can trust the Conservatives with the NHS because of David Cameron's and
my personal commitments to it, and because those are shared throughout the
Conservative Party. We have shown not only how we will protect the NHS but also
how we will reform and improve it. That is why a recent opinion poll showed that
more NHS staff will be voting Conservative at the next election than for any
other party.

Were you told off for your 10-per-cent gaffe (about cuts across Whitehall
departments), which Labour has exploited ever since? A lot of Tories consider
you a liability as a consequence. Did David Cameron say as much to you?

EDWARD TETT, BY EMAIL

No. And being honest with the public about Labour's approach to the public
finances is to our credit; Gordon Brown's dishonesty about public spending has
been shown to be the liability.

Don't you at least have to admit that Labour pumped much-needed resources into
the NHS after neglect under Thatcher and Major? They might have left it in a
mess, but your party's ideological opposition to a big state, and the implicit
investment in public services, got it into a mess in the first place.

FAY MATTHEWS, BY EMAIL

NHS spending has rightly increased. The tragedy is that costs went up and
productivity went down. Labour has demonstrated that you can spend more to get
less. We have to sustain investment, but deliver reform which secures more for
less and allows growing investment to secure improving quality and health
outcomes. I don't underestimate the impact of a rising population, increasing
numbers of older people, technology advances in healthcare and people's
legitimate expectations for higher-quality standards of healthcare. That is why
we have made the commitment to increase NHS funding in the future.

How many times have you tried cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy and any other Class A
to C drug? If you don't answer 'zero' in all cases, we'll know you're more
interesting (and honest) than your leader.

ANNA VAN KERR, BY EMAIL

Sorry to disappoint, but the answer is zero.

The new Prime Minister of Belize called [Tory donor] Michael Ashcroft, who is
bankrolling your election, "predatory". Is that how you'd describe him in your
dealings with him? Or did he just pass over a blank cheque?

KIRSTEN ARNOLD,

BY EMAIL

No.

Do you think you will hold a position as Secretary of State for Health once in
Government?

BOYD O'DONNELL, BY EMAIL

That is a matter for David Cameron.

Cameron has said he wants some senior figures from the party in his Government.
Who would be your pick?

JULIA FINCH, BY EMAIL

I would hope that a Conservative government would include senior figures from
the party. Who they will be is a matter for David Cameron. You can see through,
for example, Ken Clarke's return to the Shadow Cabinet how David Cameron is
using the best people to secure the best preparation for Government.

In [Tory] Cabinet meetings, is there a physical barrier between your leader,
George Osborne, Michael Gove, other Cameroons, and the rest of you?

VALERIE PENDLE, BY EMAIL

No - we are one team.

Did you become a Conservative or were you always one?

SIMIAN FORD,

BY EMAIL

I had no party affiliations from 1979- 87 as I was a civil servant. I became a
Conservative in the late 1980s because I could see that the Conservative Party
had transformed Britain's economy and our standing in the world compared to
Labour in the 1980s. I marched in London in the mid-Seventies against Labour's
cuts to education and health and I knew then that we had to have a dynamic
economy to prevent that happening again. I'm only sorry we're now seeing Labour
recreating the experience of economic collapse leading to public service cuts.

Where did you go on holiday this year? And what books did you take with you?

CHRISTOPHER HELLER, BY EMAIL

South-west France. I read Millennium by Tom Holland, Pompeii by Mary Beard and
Talleyrand by Robin Harris.

Do you feel strongly that Ravi Bopara should be given another shot at the No 3
position for England [in the cricket team]?

REBECCA STEWART, BY EMAIL

As someone who was born in Essex and was brought up watching Keith Fletcher, I
certainly believe England can benefit from having more Essex batsmen in the
team. He is a talented player and I'd like to see him have another chance.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 30, 2009

THE Week TO Come

BYLINE: Compiled by CERI RADFORD and IAIN HOLLINGSHEAD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 273  words


TOMORROW

If you don't fancy sitting in a traffic jam en route to the seaside, or being
crushed at the Notting Hill Carnival, head to Llanwrtyd in Wales for the World
Bog Snorkelling Championships (right). The cormorant shooting season also opens
today.

TUESDAY

Put the car back in the garage; the 2p fuel duty increase reaches the pumps.
Today is also the day to stock up on old-fashioned light bulbs, as an EU
directive comes into force banning their manufacture. Security alert: MI5
releases more files to the National Archives.

WEDNESDAY

The Scottish Parliament debates and votes on the Lockerbie bomber's release.
Don't expect another statement from Gordon Brown. The Camp for Climate Action in
London ends, so the protesters can go home for a good wash. In London, it's the
British Oyster Opening Championships.

THURSDAY

HarperCollins publishes newly discovered Hercule Poirot stories for those who
want to give their grey matter a workout with the Belgian detective. It's the
70th anniversary of Britain and France declaring war on Nazi Germany. Back to
school for many children in Britain, marking an unofficial start to Autumn.

FRIDAY

The final of Big Brother, watched by an ever-dwindling audience. Only one more
year to go until the final final. Meanwhile, in the Westminster reality show,
Ukip kicks off the political conference season, in Southport.

SATURDAY

It's the 50th anniversary of the first trunk call from a public telephone in
Britain. Before 1959, you had to be connected by an operator.

SUNDAY

The Royal Opera House stages an opera composed entirely of 140-character tweets
in an attempt to make opera accessible to the masses.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday

A BREATH OF FRESH AIR

BYLINE: SATURDAY ESSAY BY ROBERT HARDMAN

LENGTH: 2194 words


HE'S SLASHED PUBLIC SPENDING (INCLUDING HIS OWN SALARY), AXED POINTLESS COUNCIL
NON-JOBS AND BANNED THE WORD 'DIVERSITY'. WHY CAN'T DAVE AND GORDON LEARN A FEW
LESSONS FROM BRITAIN'S MOST GLORIOUSLY UN-PC SUPERMAYOR?

BY HIS own admission, Peter Davies would make a dreadful Foreign Secretary.
Aside from the fact that he has never been in a plane and has been abroad only
once (a four-day break to Paris in 1988), diplomacy is not his forte.

This is, after all, a man who proudly proclaims his contempt for 'diversity'.

So the week after next it is going to be interesting when Mr Davies welcomes a
delegation of German VIPs on an allexpenses-paid visit to his home town -- and
tells them not to bother coming back.

'I have only two words of German: "Auf" and "Wiedersehen", ' he says. 'But those
are the only words I need.'

And no one is going to stop this proud Yorkshireman. To the shock and dismay of
many local councillors and MPs, most of Westminster and the entire Government,
the assiduously straight-talking Mr Davies has just become one of the most
powerful politicians in Britain.

To make things worse, he did so while a member of one of its tiniest parties,
the English Democrats. And to cap it all, his first act was to slash his own pay
by 60 per cent.

Less than three months ago, by a narrow margin, this retired schoolmaster was
unexpectedly elected executive mayor of the once impregnable -- and famously
corrupt -- Labour citadel of Doncaster. Imagine a Socialist Worker mayor in
Surrey and you get the picture.

Executive mayors were a Blairite wheeze to rejuvenate clapped-out, inner-city
town halls by creating all-powerful civic superstars (preferably cronies of
Tony). Only a handful of cities voted for the idea, though.

The best-known is the Mayor of London, though his powers are by far the weakest.
The capital was deemed too important for a single mayoral ego so that post,
occupied by Boris Johnson, is largely promotional, with appointing, ribbon-
cutting and Olympic finger buffets thrown in.

In the provinces, though, the 11 other executive mayors reign like medieval
princes.

'Boris? He's a eunuch,' scoffs Mr Davies, who chooses and supervises a cabinet
that controls education, transport, social services and pretty much everything
else across his domain. And with a quarter of a million people, Doncaster is by
far the biggest of these fiefdoms.

That is why Mr Davies matters. He has made a punchy start which, if replicated
nationwide, would lead to public sector bedlam.

The question is who should be most worried about his success: Labour or the
Tories? Because his message threatens both.

Within a week of his election, Mr Davies had slashed his own salary from 673,000
to 630,000, scrapped the mayoral limousine and abolished the council's free
newspaper.

HE HAS written to the Electoral Commission asking them to scrap two-thirds of
Doncaster's 63 council seats in order to save the town 6800,000 a year.

'If Pittsburgh can manage with nine councillors, why do we need 63?' he asks.
'They each get a basic salary of 612,590 and we have only eight council meetings
a year anyway.'

Deeply sceptical of 'green claptrap', he must be the only mayor in Britain who
wants more traffic in his town.

He says it will boost business and has just announced plans for more parking
spaces and an end to bus-only routes. 'Like it or not, we live in the age of the
car,' he says.

He wants to cut all 'non-jobs' in his 13,500 workforce -- such as
platinum-pensioned ' community cohesion officers' -- and aims to shrivel future
pay deals for council executives.

Much as he likes his chief executive, Paul Hart, he says his 6175,000 salary is
'a joke' and that any successor can expect half.

'Don't believe that stuff about "having to pay the best to get the best". It's
arrant nonsense -- look what it did to the City,' he says.

And he is in the process of 'detwinning' Doncaster from its five twin towns
around the world. Twinning, he says, is all about free holidays for councillors
and their staff.

On taking office, he was amazed to discover that the council had agreed to pay a
62,800 hotel bill during next month's St Leger race meeting at the local
racecourse.

The money is for entertaining councillors from Herten, Doncaster's (soon-to-be-
ex) twin town in Germany. It was too late to cancel the reservations, but Mr
Davies will ensure the exercise is not repeated.

'Racing happens to be my passion, but I don't expect the taxpayer to fund it,'
he says.

While these preliminary cuts may be local government heresy, what has really
marked out Mr

He's slashed public spending (including his own salary), axed pointless council
non-jobs and banned the word 'diversity'. Why can't Dave and Gordon learn a few
lessons from Britain's most gloriously un-PC supermayor? Davies for liberal
opprobrium is his gratuitously provocative assault on what he calls 'the culture
of political correctness'.

He has scrapped all future funding for Doncaster's annual Gay Pride event.

'I'm not a homophobe, but I don't see why council taxpayers should pay to
celebrate anyone's sexuality,' he says.

He has scrapped funding for council translation services on the grounds that
people should be encouraged to learn English. And he has scrapped the word
'diversity' from his list of cabinet portfolios.

'Going on about diversity causes racial tension, it doesn't improve it,' he
says.

'The Government has just admitted that gipsies should be given special treatment
and that only makes people angry. I want every citizen of Doncaster to be
equal.'

Mr Davies is certainly setting himself up for demonisation -- by Labour, Tory
and Liberal alike. And the twice-married father-of-three hasn't even hit the
100-day mark. His critics are quiet for now, but I dare say Labour HQ has
recruited a team of smear merchants to trawl through his past and his bins. He
certainly speaks his mind, which is always a godsend for enemy spin doctors.

Here's Davies on climate change: 'I'm not green and I'm not conned by global
warming.'

On women in the workplace: 'Why do we expect pregnant women to work?'

On council affiliations: 'I don't want to join things; I want to unjoin them.'

AFTER expressing his support for an English History Day, he received a chummy
email from a woman claiming to be a former pupil trying to lure him into saying
something racist about Black History Month.

'She turned out to be a fake and I'm no racist,' says Mr Davies. Besides, it was
hardly the ideal way of contacting the mayor. He does not use a computer -- all
his emails are printed out by his staff.

Mr Davies likes to call himself a maverick, but isn't he just a
headline-grabbing populist?

Having been elected because he is a non-politician and 'a breath of fresh air'
(a recurring phrase among his supporters), won't he end up going native and
claiming for mayoral duck houses? Or does he represent the start of a sea change
in local, even national, politics?

If a man well to the Right of the Tory leadership can capture a socialist pit
town on Arthur Scargill's doorstep, anything is possible.

Having come to Doncaster, I find a bluff, but canny operator sitting in a
spectacularly drab Sixties office block that once housed the Coal Board.

Mr Davies has attempted to cheer up his viewless office with three racing prints
(his own), but without success.

Much as his opponents will try, he is not easy to pigeonhole. He wants to slash
costs, but he is not some assetstripping suit from a big business background.

He is a retired state employee who spent 30 years teaching religious studies.

He hates the cult of ' diversity', but says he took his pupils to mosques,
synagogues and temples to help them understand other faiths.

A non-practising Anglican, he says he is attracted by certain tenets of Buddhism
and believes the Taliban could teach us a thing or two about family values.

'Who says we have the moral right to tell Afghan society how to live?' he says.
'Our troops should not be there.'

Blimey. I can almost sense a touch of the George Galloways -- until we turn to
crime. He is a keen devotee of the birch and noose.

The Doncaster-born son of a socialist butcher, Mr Davies was a Labour activist
until 1973, when the rhetoric at a May Day rally drove him to the Conservatives.

He supported that party for more than 20 years, until John Major signed up to
the Maastricht Treaty, whereupon Mr Davies joined the UK Independence Party
(UKIP).

He says he soon tired of UKIP's infighting and ' hypocrisy', so moved to the
lesserknown English Democrats because he was 'fed up with England being taken
for a ride'.

Mr Davies says he loves Scotland -- he takes his annual holiday in Perth to
visit 'the most beautiful racecourse in Britain' -- but he believes the time has
come to shrink Westminster and create an English parliament.

He knows his limits, however, and quickly points out that mayors of Doncaster,
however powerful, have nothing to do with devolution.

Similarly, having stood on an anti-yob ticket, he admits there is only so much
that councils can do to fight crime.

'But we can, at least, try to help the police with new bylaws,' he says.
'Everyone tells me I can't do this or that, but why can't I try?' According to
Mr Davies, Doncaster is home to 80 per cent of the travellers in South Yorkshire
and so the town is obliged to build 51 sites for them.

'There's nothing we can do about that because it's a government decree, but that
shouldn't stop us from seeing whether there are people on those gipsy sites who
aren't paying council tax or are working while on benefit.'

He is scathing about the Conservatives, despite the fact that his son, Philip,
is Tory MP for Shipley.

'The party's gone. Half of them belong in the Labour Party. They all fish in the
same pond anyway,' he says.

However, he stresses that he admires Eurosceptic Tories, including Lord Tebbit,
plus a few outspoken Labour MPs, such as Frank Field and Austin Mitchell.

On some points, he sounds just like David Cameron. 'No proper frontline workers
have anything to fear from me. Social workers, care assistants and teachers do a
vital job,' he says. 'But the bureaucrats had better look out.'

Ah, the bureaucrats. Always the easiest target, but always the hardest to shift.

I ask him whom he has in mind. He turns to a pile of swankily printed documents
on his desk and grabs one. It is the size of a telephone directory-and has
Spatial Strategy written on the front.

'Look at this rubbish. That must have involved 20 staff and the language is
meaningless. It belongs in the bin, but I'm keeping it for posterity.'

It's all very well trying to junk useless waffle and the 'Jobzilla' culture
behind it, but what does Mr Davies actually know about local government?

Another early policy decision was to 'unjoin' Doncaster from the two main
talking shops for councils, the Local Government Association and the Local
Government Information Unit.

Mr Davies says this will save 680,000 a year. But where will he get advice on
how to reform his 6586 million-a-year authority?

I test him on his knowledge of public sector-speak and chuck a few Jobzilla
phrases at him -- 'beaconicity', 'driving the transformation agenda' -- and he
just waves his hands.

'I've told every department to dump all that language and find savings of 10 to
15 per cent right away. I want to cut the council tax by 3 per cent this year.'

DAVIES is bringing in reinforcements -- the Taxpayers Alliance, Campaign Against
Political Correctness and a team of external accountants, who have been invited
to look through Doncaster's books.

It can't be much fun being an under- employed council jobsworth in this town
now.

I ask what he would do if he discovered one of his trading standards officers
persecuting a street trader for selling in pounds and ounces.

'Put it this way, it would be a case of: "Goodnight, sweet Prince," ' he says
with a grin.

He certainly has his work cut out, but he is already making waves. A random
street survey suggests he has the support of around a third of the town, while a
further third are in the 'wait and see' camp and the remaining third have no
idea what I am talking about. No one, though, is anti-Davies.

Ironically, it is Labour who created Peter Davies. This town used to be as red
as a Doncaster Rovers scarf, but successive Labour regimes became so complacent,
tribal and greedy that several bunghungry councillors ended up doing time after
the ' Donnygate' fraud trials of the Nineties.

It wasn't just the council that was bent. The former owner of Doncaster Rovers
went to jail in 1999 for trying to burn down his own football stadium.

Finally, a shocking series of child abuse cases prompted Labour's last mayor to
announce he would not seek re-election this summer.

So is it any wonder that the people of Doncaster have given up on traditional
politics?

Politicians -- and council bosses -- of all persuasions will be hoping Mr Davies
is written off as an extremist joke figure or defeated by the gargantuan forces
of town hall inertia ranged against him.

If not, a town best known for its political scandals could become famous for
turning the tide against the modern political class. And that's the last thing
Gordon Brown or David Cameron wants right now.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday

Developer donates pounds 1m to boost Tory election war chest

BYLINE: Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 329  words


THE Tory election war chest has been boosted by a  pounds 1 million donation
from one of the country's wealthiest men.

David Rowland, an international property developer who returned from the Channel
Islands in order to become a permissible donor, has promised "further
substantial donations over the next two years''. The latest figures released by
the Electoral Commission showed that political donations rose sharply in the
last quarter, as all the parties prepared for a general election which must come
within nine months.

The Tories received the most funds,  pounds 6.4 million, from a wide donation
base. Mr Rowland's six-figure sum was the only one for the party.

He said: "I made the donation as a result of my passionate concern for liberty
and the economic future of Britain. We need fresh ideas, national renewal and
above all a government that sets the people free.

"I feel strongly that the Conservatives under the leadership of David Cameron
are the party that will deliver that. They are the best hope for this country's
future.''

Labour received  pounds 4.4 million, including two donations of  pounds 250,000
from the financiers Nigel Doughty and Sir Ronald Cohen. The bulk of the party's
funding, two-thirds of all the money received, was provided by trade unions.

Eric Pickles, the Tory party chairman, said: "Whilst the Conservative Party
continues to widen its base of support, the Labour Party has become more reliant
on trade union barons to pay the bills.''

In total,  pounds 13.2 million was donated to political parties between April
and June, up 50 per cent. The second largest figure outside a general election
campaign, and the fourth highest ever, came as Westminster was in crisis during
the MPs' expenses scandal.

The Liberal Democrats received  pounds 1.1 million and the UK Independence
Party,  pounds 560,000. The British National Party, which won two European
Parliament seats in June, faces punishment after failing to submit financial
records.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

National: Political briefing: Donations pour in, despite row over expenses

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 533 words


The old political rule "follow the money" gets turned inside out where party
funding is concerned. The money follows the opinion polls, so it is now pouring
into David Cameron's piggy bank, as yesterday's quarterly report from the
Electoral Commission confirmed. It is far from rocket science: ICM's latest poll
for the Guardian puts the Tories 16% ahead.

Not that Labour is doing too badly in the horrible circumstances of the Late
Brown Era. From April to June it got £4,391,632 in donations against £6,394,673
for the Tories and £1,132,079 for the Lib Dems. Donations are up on the last
pre-election phase of the cycle. Ukip took £357,906, the Green party £144,399,
the SNP £61,610. But the big three wolfed the lion's share of the buoyant £13m
given to 20 parties, despite this summer's uproar against the "old politics"
over MPs' expenses.

As the Tories quickly pointed out, two-thirds of Labour's lolly came from unions
such as Unite (TGWU faction), the GMB and Unison, bringing their total since
2001 to £82m. More embarrassing still, six MPs (including David Blunkett), one
MEP and two City plump cats - Nigel Doughty and Sir Ronnie Cohen gave £250,000
each - provided four-fifths of individual donations, ordinary supporters just
19%.

None of the big parties is beyond reproach where grubby money is concerned. The
commission is still investigating the £2.4m given to the Lib Dems by convicted
fraudster Michael Brown. Likewise the exact status of grey eminence Lord Michael
("the man who bought the Tory party" as the Spectator once put it) Ashcroft's
Bearwood Holdings through which he makes donations.

This quarter Ashcroft is not among the top 20 donors, but his wife, Susan
Anstey, is there at No 16 for £124,520 worth of research support. In a
compromise that probably reflects Labour's own reliance on wealthy,
non-domiciled-for-tax individuals, the new law blocking such donors' cheques
will not come into effect until after the expected general election polling day,
6 May next year.

Tory moneymen have succeeded in widening their base of smaller donors (up to
£25,000): 207 of them, from 134 last time. That shift reflects rising Tory hopes
of victory after four defeats, plus thinly veiled cash for access. But it takes
41 such donors to match yesterday's biggest contributor, the £1,036,050 given by
self-made property developer David "Spotty" Rowland, who repatriated himself
from Guernsey to comply with existing rules. He promises plenty more to help the
Cameroons sustain "liberty and the economic future of Britain". No one suggests
that the Rowland family made money by cute speculation during the banking
collapse - unlike other Tory donors such as Michael Hintze (£106,000) and
Crispin Odey (£10,000), whose wife sat on the failed Northern Rock board.

A familar paradox lurks within yesterday's figures. The Tories' largest single
donor (£1,609,000) was actually not liberty-loving Rowland, but the taxpayer,
who also shelled out £500,000 each to Labour and the Lib Dems, £2.7m in all.
Gordon Brown's successor can console himself that election campaigns may be ever
more expensive, but taxpayers cover most of a party's routine running costs -
provided they're in opposition.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2009 Friday



CORRECTION: *The Conservatives have suffered three consecutive election defeats,
not four as our Political briefing said (Donations pour in, despite row over
expenses, 27 August, page 16).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

RYANAIR TO BACK YES;
LISBON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 84 words


RYANAIR is to pump EUR500,000 into a vote Yes for Europe campaign, it emerged
yesterday.

The company believes a resounding Yes on October 2 is vital to Ireland's
economic development and future.

Airline boss Michael O'Leary warned unless we support the revised Lisbon Treaty
then Ireland's economic future is dire.

He added: "When one looks at the ragbag amalgam of the no campaign, led by
economic illiterates like Sinn Fein, the UK Independence Party and Socialist
Party it's clear Ireland should vote Yes."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Scrap dealer's son who became a tycoon gives Tories £1m 'to set the people free'

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 542 words


A property magnate who was a millionaire at 23 has given more than £1 million to
the Conservatives, the first of several "significant" donations that he plans to
make.

David Rowland, 64, who has returned to live in London from the Channel Islands
to make the donation, said that he gave the money because of his concern for
"liberty" and to protect the economic future of Britain.

The Conservatives, who have suggested a £50,000 cap on individual donations in
the past, provided that Labour reformed trade union donations, received
£1,036,050 from Mr Rowland.

The Conservatives pulled ahead of Labour in fundraising between April and July,
the Electoral Commission said. The Tories took £6,394,673, Labour received
£4,391,632 and the Liberal Democrats £1,132,079.

Nicknamed "Spotty", the tycoon is No 66 on The Sunday Times Rich List, along
with his son, Jonathan.

Mr Rowland Sr is a legendary City figure: his father was a scrap metal dealer
and he went to a comprehensive school and left without any O levels. He once
said: "Money just complicates things. And the more you get, the more complicated
your life becomes."

The Rowland family made their money in property investments. Mr Rowland
describes himself as an international financier who has worked overseas for most
of his life.

Recently the Rowland family have expanded into the banking sector with the
opening of a new company out of Kaupthing, the failed Icelandic group. In a
statement he said that he had returned to live in London to support the
Conservative Party.

He said: "We need fresh ideas, national renewal and above all a government that
sets the people free. I feel strongly that the Conservatives under the
leadership of David Cameron are the party that will deliver that. They are the
best hope for this country's future."

He added that he intended to make further "substantial donations" over the next
two years. According to the Rich List, the Rowland family have sold many assets
in the past few years, fearing a downturn, and are now hunting for bargains
through Rowland Capital as well as investing in commodities.

Jonathan made his name with Jellyworks, the internet firm.

Michael Spencer, the Conservative Party treasurer, said: "We are ahead of our
projections - widening our donor base while retaining our loyal existing
supporters. Unlike other parties, we have not taken on the burden of any
additional debt."

Labour remained reliant on the unions, which accounted for £3.2 million of the
party's fundraising, with Sir Roland Cohen, the philanthropist, and Nigel
Doughty, the private equity fixer, both giving £250,000.

The Electoral Commission said that this was the fourth-highest quarter for
donations, and the second-highest outside a general election.

Big money donors

£16m

Lord Sainsbury

The peer, a donor to the Labour Party, was questioned in the loans-forpeerages
inquiry

£2.4m

Michael Brown

Supporter of the Liberal Democrats who was convicted of theft and perverting the
course of justice

£5m

Stuart Wheeler

Gave big money to the Tories in 2001, but later switched his allegiance to UKIP

£1m

Bernie Ecclestone

Gift to Labour in 1997 was returned after row over F1's exemption from tobacco
advertising laws

David Rowland: "The more money you get, the more complicated your life becomes"

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scrap dealer's son who became a tycoon gives Tories £1m 'to set the people free'

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 620 words


A property magnate who was a millionaire at 23 has given more than £1 million to
the Conservatives, the first of several "significant" donations that he plans to
make.

David Rowland, 64, who has returned to live in London from the Channel Islands
to make the donation, said that he gave the money because of his concern for
"liberty" and to protect the economic future of Britain.

The Conservatives, who have suggested a £50,000 cap on individual donations in
the past, provided that Labour reformed trade union donations, received
£1,036,050 from Mr Rowland.

The Conservatives pulled ahead of Labour in fundraising between April and July,
the Electoral Commission said. The Tories took £6,394,673, Labour received
£4,391,632 and the Liberal Democrats £1,132,079.

Nicknamed "Spotty", the tycoon is No 66 on The Sunday Times Rich List, along
with his son, Jonathan.

Mr Rowland Sr is a legendary City figure: his father was a scrap metal dealer
and he went to a comprehensive school and left without any O levels. He once
said: "Money just complicates things. And the more you get, the more complicated
your life becomes."

The Rowland family made their money in property investments. Mr Rowland
describes himself as an international financier who has worked overseas for most
of his life.

Recently the Rowland family have expanded into the banking sector with the
opening of a new company out of Kaupthing, the failed Icelandic group. In a
statement he said that he had returned to live in London to support the
Conservative Party.

He said: "We need fresh ideas, national renewal and above all a government that
sets the people free. I feel strongly that the Conservatives under the
leadership of David Cameron are the party that will deliver that. They are the
best hope for this country's future."

He added that he intended to make further "substantial donations" over the next
two years. According to the Rich List, the Rowland family have sold many assets
in the past few years, fearing a downturn, and are now hunting for bargains
through Rowland Capital as well as investing in commodities.

Jonathan made his name with Jellyworks, the internet firm.

Michael Spencer, the Conservative Party treasurer, said: "We are ahead of our
projections - widening our donor base while retaining our loyal existing
supporters. Unlike other parties, we have not taken on the burden of any
additional debt."

Labour remained reliant on the unions, which accounted for £3.2 million of the
party's fundraising, with Sir Roland Cohen, the philanthropist, and Nigel
Doughty, the private equity fixer, both giving £250,000.

The Electoral Commission said that this was the fourth-highest quarter for
donations, and the second-highest outside a general election.

Big money donors

£16m

Lord Sainsbury The peer, a donor to the Labour Party, was questioned in the
loans-forpeerages inquiry

£2.4m Michael Brown Supporter of the Liberal Democrats who was convicted of
theft and perverting the course of justice

£5m Stuart Wheeler Gave big money to the Tories in 2001, but later switched his
allegiance to UKIP

£1m Bernie Ecclestone Gift to Labour in 1997 was returned after row over F1's
exemption from tobacco advertising laws

David Rowland: "The more money you get, the more complicated your life becomes"

Big money donors £16m Lord Sainsbury The peer, a donor to the Labour Party, was
questioned in the loans-forpeerages inquiry £2.4m Michael Brown Supporter of the
Liberal Democrats who was convicted of theft and perverting the course of
justice £5m Stuart Wheeler Gave big money to the Tories in 2001, but later
switched his allegiance to UKIP £1m Bernie Ecclestone Gift to Labour in 1997 was
returned after row over F1's exemption from tobacco advertising laws

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Council's Knox row

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 62 words


A COUNCILLOR is being probed after asking if people wanted to bed murder suspect
Amanda Knox.

Adam Brown, a UKIP member of Merthyr Tydfil Council, Wales, is said to have made
the comment on a Cardiff City FC site.

American Knox is accused of killing Brit Meredith Kercher in Italy.

Mr Brown at first said it was "laddish behaviour" but then claimed that a pal
posted the comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DAVE CAN LEARN FROM UKIP

BYLINE: FERGUS Shanahan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 153 words


ONE party set to do well at the election is UKIP, who want us out of Europe.
Their cause is helped by figures showing we face a 60 per cent rise in Britain's
payments to Brussels next year: The equivalent of £257 per household (in work,
not on benefits).

That's £92 more per household. We are the second-biggest contributor to the EU
and much of our money goes to let French farmers live in luxury. At the recent
European Parliament elections, one in four opted for anti-EU party. The Tories
prefer not to get into all this because Europe divides them. But they can't
avoid the issue, otherwise UKIP will take votes from them in seats they must win
if Dave is to reach No10.

Dave still fudges what he will do if he becomes PM and the EU Treaty has come
into British law (as it will if the Irish vote Yes on October 2). He can't fudge
much longer when we see how we are being robbed by Brussels and getting nothing
in return.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 24, 2009 Monday

Labour's summer fightback hopes dashed by new Guardian/ICM poll

LENGTH: 633 words

ABSTRACT

Tories extend lead to 16 points as Labour drops to 25%

FULL TEXT

Labour's hopes of a summer fightback powered by economic recovery and the NHS
row are dashed by a new Guardian/ICM poll showing that the Conservatives have
gained ground on key policy areas and are now the overwhelming public choice to
form the next government.

Despite a month of policy attacks from Gordon Brown's summer stand-ins at No 10,
and controversy over the Conservative commitment to a state-funded NHS, the
opposition has extended its lead to 16 points.

Labour has lost the August battle on health, with more voters thinking the
Conservatives would improve the NHS than think the party would make it worse.
While 48% think healthcare would be better under a Tory government, only 41%
agree with Labour warnings that it would be worse. Even 24% of current Labour
voters think the Tories would improve the NHS.

The Tory lead on other policies, including education, is bigger.

In an immediate general election, 25% say they would vote Labour - the joint
lowest score in Guardian/ICM polling history and the worst for Labour in the
series since June last year. The figure has only been lower once, in an ICM poll
carried out for another paper during Labour's spring leadership crisis.

Labour support has dropped two points since the July Guardian poll and one point
since a more recent ICM survey.

The Conservatives are on 41%, unchanged since the July Guardian poll, although
down two on the more recent survey.

The party has scored 40% or more in 10 of the 12 ICM polls this year. This
month's poll is also the 10th time in the ICM series that Labour has scored
below 30% - nine of those have come since March 2008.

The Liberal Democrats meanwhile are on 19%, down one since July and unchanged
since the more recent ICM poll.

Support for other parties, boosted by the European elections, has not fallen to
previous levels. At 14%, up two (including the Greens, BNP and Ukip at 3% each,
and nationalist parties on 5%), it has eaten into major party support.

At a general election these figures could see Labour lose more than 150 seats,
and give the Conservatives a landslide majority approaching 100.

Asked, regardless of individual party preferences, whether a Tory government
under David Cameron, or a Labour one under Gordon Brown, would be best for
Britain, most people back the opposition.

While 58% of all voters - including 37% of people who voted Labour in 2005 - now
think Cameron would be best, only 31% back Brown. The Conservatives lead Labour
among all social classes and in all regions, although they are strongest among
richer voters and those in the south.

Crucially, a Cameron government is the clear preference of most Liberal
Democrats - 56% would rather see the Tories in power, against 36% who want
Labour. In recent general elections, Lib Dem voters tended to gang up with
Labour ones to stop the Conservatives winning marginal seats. At the next
election, Labour could find itself the victim of Lib Dem tactical voting
instead.

Meanwhile the poll suggests Labour would find little relief by choosing a new
leader. Among possible candidates, most make little difference. David Miliband
is the only one who matches Brown head to head, while Harriet Harman is the
alternative leader most likely to deter voters.

Offered a straight choice between Brown and Harman, 20% pick Brown and only 8%
Harman. She is also less popular among women - 21% to 5% - than among men - 20%
to 10%.

· ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
21 and 23 August 2008. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. Percentages may not add
to 100 because of rounding. ICM is a member of the British Polling Council and
abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 23, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

How to make crime really pay in a recession;
ATTICUS Edited

BYLINE: JOHN BURNS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 147 words


Sobering, no, to discover that ex-paramilitaries are being as adversely affected
by the recession as the rest of us? Jackie Mahood, a Belfast Loyalist, has been
declared bankrupt, no less. Mahood's business premises and vehicles were
attacked several times, prompting him to apply for criminal damage compensation
from the Northern Ireland Office. This having been refused, the convicted
paramilitary is now appealing against the government's decision. Perhaps he is
sticking with the old adage that "crime pays" - one way or another.

Henry Reilly, the UKIP councillor for the Mournes, is still digging furiously as
he tries to defend comments he made about foreign workers at BE Aerospace.
Reilly insists he is "not racist or xenophobic in any way whatsoever", putting
Atticus in mind of the taxi drivers whose opening conversational gambit is "Not
that I'm racist or anything, but..."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 23, 2009

Exclusive;
Taxpayers' bill for Europe rises by 60pc

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 506  words


BRITAIN'S PAYMENTS to the European Union will rise by almost 60 per cent next
year, according to figures "buried'' in government documents.

The Treasury statistics show that the net contribution to the EU will increase
from  pounds 4.1 billion this year to  pounds 6.4 billion in 2010-11.

The figures were slipped out in the Treasury's annual Community Finances
statement last month, just before parliament broke up for its summer recess.

The revelation will fuel the debate over the benefits of being in the EU, after
more than a quarter of British voters in this year's European elections backed
parties that want to take Britain out.

The Conservatives last night blamed government "incompetence'' for the rise in
contributions. They said the increased payments were the result of the "selling
out'' of Britain's annual EU rebate by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in 2005.

The latest Treasury figures also show that Britain is currently the second
biggest net contributor, behind Germany. The net UK contribution will be the
equivalent of  pounds 257 for every household, or 3p on the standard rate of
income tax.

Britain's budget rebate, won by Margaret Thatcher in 1984, will shrink from
pounds 5.1 billion this year to  pounds 3.3 billion in 2010-11.

The rebate was designed to compensate Britain for the high costs of the Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP), which benefits Britain much less than other
countries.

Before the last big round of EU negotiations, Mr Blair promised parliament that
the British rebate would remain. However, at the European Council in December
2005 Mr Blair negotiated away about 20 per cent - or  pounds 7.2 billion - of
the rebate that would have been received over 2007 to 2013.

As part of the "deal'', Britain won promises of cuts to the CAP subsidies paid
to farmers. However, these have not so far been forthcoming, with the French
government digging in its heels over plans to reform the policy.

The negotiations in December 2005 saw allies of Mr Brown, then the Chancellor,
claiming that Mr Blair had gone against the wishes of the Treasury - sparking a
fresh battle in the feud between the pair.

However, in 2007 it was reported that Mr Brown had agreed to rubber stamp the
original deal.

Last night Philip Hammond, the shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, said:
"The consequences of Labour's rebate sell-out are becoming clear, if only in
these buried figures. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair signed billions of pounds of
our money away in return for absolutely nothing.

"At a time when our economy is in recession and public service budgets are under
pressure, Labour's incompetence is allowing billions of pounds to be siphoned
off to Brussels.''

At the European elections in June, the UK Independence Party, which wants to
take Britain out of the EU, secured 16.5 per cent of the vote, pushing Labour
into third place.

Votes for other parties that advocate withdrawal, including the British National
Party, English Democrats and Socialist Labour Party, took the total Eurosceptic
vote to more than 26 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 21, 2009 Friday 10:42 PM GMT

Kenny MacAskill should resign over the Lockerbie Bomber fiasco

BYLINE: By Nile Gardiner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 511 words


When politicians make disgraceful decisions they should accept responsibility
and face the consequences. Scottish Justice Secretary Kenneth MacAskill made a
spectacularly bad judgment call in freeing mass murderer Abdelbaset Ali
al-Megrahi on "compassionate grounds".

Megrahi received a hero's welcome in Tripoli in sickening scenes orchestrated by
Libyan tyrant Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, who happily jails human rights activists
for life and lets them rot in prison. As predicted, Megrahi has been feted as a
hero by the Libyans, some of them even waving Scottish flags, a massive insult
to the victims of Lockerbie of all nationalities.

MacAskill has made Scotland a laughing stock on the world stage with his
decision, and his actions have sparked growing condemnation in Britain and huge
outrage in the United States. In fact I doubt he could set foot in America
without inciting protests. He has acted against the interests of his own
country, as well as that of Great Britain and its closest ally the United
States. MacAskill has sided with the heartless convicted killer of 270 people,
including 180 Americans and 52 Britons, over the families of his victims.

Several Scottish MPs have already expressed disgust over Megrahi's release and
its aftermath. It has even compelled Labour MP Russell Brown (Dumfries and
Galloway) to declare:

"I have never been ashamed to see my country's flag waved before, but to see it
misused to celebrate mass murder is outrageous. This man is convicted of
murdering 270 people in my part of Scotland and that conviction stands.

"This adds further pressure to the SNP to explain why they have freed a man who
showed no remorse for the crimes he committed. The SNP are damaging Scotland's
reputation and have put our flag in a position where it can be abused like
this."

The Scottish National Party polled a meagre 1.5 per cent of the national vote in
the 2005 general election (less than UKIP), yet its leaders have been entrusted
with a major decision with far-reaching implications for Great Britain and the
broader transatlantic alliance. As such its ministers must pay the price when
wrong choices are made.

This has also been a huge abdication of responsibility by Gordon Brown and David
Miliband, who still bear ultimate responsibility for Scottish foreign policy and
national security issues. Major questions need to be asked over the Labour
government's role in this whole fiasco.

It is time for Kenny MacAskill to do the proper thing and step down. He is
clearly not ready for prime time. MacAskill owes a huge apology to the families
of the victims of the Lockerbie atrocity for releasing Megrahi, but has so far
shown not an ounce of remorse or humility.

Significantly he has failed even to condemn the repulsive scenes of celebration
on the streets of Tripoli. MacAskill has done the British and American people a
huge disservice by turning convicted terrorist Megrahi into a feted martyr when
he has the blood of hundreds of innocents on his hands.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

These Men-in-white tarnish easily

LENGTH: 681 words

ABSTRACT

John Harris: I'd love to support Martin Bell and Terry Waite's independent
guerrillas, but their wafflesome agenda makes it impossible

FULL TEXT

Watch out, politicians: come next year, you may have been singled out for
special attention from a new guerrilla force, headed by two supposed gleaming
beacons of virtue, probity, and very English rebellion: Martin Bell and Terry
Waite, who have this week served notice of a planned  who will target MPs
damaged by the expenses controversy.

Esther Rantzen is apparently not part of this plot, and Bell isn't giving many
details away, because "as soon as political parties know you're running then
they train their searchlights on you and blast away". Nonetheless, a few
possible details have crept out. Though it sounds like he won't actually stand
there, Bell is liaising with community groups in Salford with a view to putting
the frighteners on Hazel Blears via a possible bid by a "local hero", and Waite
may end up standing in Bury St Edmunds, where  is accused of - to quote the BBC
(quoting the Daily Telegraph) - "flipping his second home from London ... before
claiming back thousands for furniture and fittings, including a £1,674 sofa".

Aside from a vague threat to Alan Duncan, word of other insurgents and locations
isn't forthcoming, though Bell has  what it might take to repeat his defeat of
the infamous Neil Hamilton in 1997: "a well-known candidate (not necessarily a
TV personality: a prominent doctor or councillor will do just as well), a good
cause and a vulnerable incumbent."

At which point, let us pause for thought. I am from Bell's former constituency
of Tatton, and though the spectacle of his win 12 years ago was undoubtedly
thrilling, plenty of people there subsequently complained about what it
produced: an MP pledged to little apart from frugality, who often seemed to
believe in both everything and nothing, and had the luxury of a blank political
cheque.

Bell rarely spoke in the Commons, and tended to use his few speeches to
concentrate on foreign policy. The highlights of his voting record are : he had
a habit of siding with the Blair government, abstained on at least one crucial
vote on cuts to lone-parent benefit, and voted against reducing the gay age of
consent (twice) and banning fox-hunting.

I interviewed him once, and asked him to define his politics, and he came back
with a rather wafflesome reply about English liberalism. I know he's in favour
of electoral reform (of some description), but not much more. On Comment is
Free, he has written about such issues as the ex-Commons speaker  (a lot), the
economic benefits of using , the  and the structure of . Where is he on, say,
City bonuses and the political class's cosy relationship with high finance, the
hard politics of climate change, Britain's place in Europe, or what the state of
the public finances means for schools and hospitals?

And Waite? God knows (I would imagine).

Now, sorry to have pop at such fondly-loved figures, but as with the Rantzen
candidacy in Luton, this strikes me a pretty offputting mixture of piety,
pomposity, opportunism and a Diana-esque kind of sentimentality. It runs the
danger of collapsing everything wrong with our politics into what has lately
appeared in the Daily Telegraph, and ignoring plenty of other urgent stuff that
any potential constituents deserve to hear the guerrilla force's take on.

Maybe some of this will be forthcoming; there again, maybe it won't. If you want
to voice your exasperation with the political mainstream, more satisfactory
options surely exist: if you want to have a go from the left, you could vote
Green; on the right, there is always the wonderful Ukip. Both at least have a
programme: Bell, Waite et al simply trade on a fuzzy and potentially
manipulative idea of doing the right thing. Self-proclaimed "honesty" is a
start, but a career in parliament - however brief - surely demands a whole lot
more.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

Progress - but in the wrong direction

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 620  words


Many of you will be surprised to hear that the Conservative Party has a
conscience, but it does: and it is Lord Tebbit. Dave and his friends despise old
Norm, because he is - as Lord Tebbit himself put it this week - a member of the
"nasty party''. I have the honour to know Lord Tebbit quite well, and he is one
of the least nasty people I can think of. He is humane, a patriot, and in favour
of what we used to call "Thatcherite'' social and economic policies - the same
ones that won the Conservative Party three elections between 1979 and 1987. That
is why Dave loathes him.

This week, Lord Tebbit observed that many natural Tories would vote Ukip at the
next election, rather than for Dave's party. I am sure he is right. I am equally
sure that Dave couldn't care less, because he believes he can win with the
support of many former Labour and Lib Dem voters. I think Dave may be wrong. If
people are used to a real Labour or Lib Dem MP, they are unlikely to be
prevailed upon to vote for an imitation one. Even if they do, any hold on power
that the Tories have after the next election will be fragile, and their
supporters not remotely loyal.

Lord Tebbit's fears are well founded. Look at the speech little George Osborne
made the other day to a Leftist think tank, where he banged on about his party's
commitment to the public services, and talked glowingly of its being
"progressive'' - or Dave's kneejerk rebuke of Daniel Hannan this week, which
showed a now-typical unwillingness to question the fundamentals of the socialist
welfare state.

All this heir-to-Blair nonsense stinks to high heaven. Perhaps Dave and little
George have forgotten just how delighted the country was to see the back of the
last prime minister. Perhaps they have yet to reflect adequately on the quality
of his legacy, which is still all around us. The notion that people will happily
vote for the resuscitation of such a corpse is a peculiar way to attract votes.

With the luxury of being so far ahead in the opinion polls, Dave does not need
to offer any specific policies. He certainly doesn't need to vacate what he
calls the "centre ground'', or what the rest of us would call the position of
orthodox Leftism. To many voters, a reduction in the size of the state, a
contraction of many of the public services and a drive for value in all of them
are utterly necessary, and long overdue. So, too, is the severe contraction of
Gordon Brown's client state.

But Dave won't publicly embrace any of this, because he fears that it reminds
people of the Tory Party they threw out in 1997. No doubt he feels that talking
about "progressive'' policies will create that warm bath of approval that he
needs to get elected: and if traditional Tories don't like it, too bad.

I fear he misunderstands (as do so many of his colleagues) the public mood. The
old loyalties have gone. Fringe parties like Ukip, usually only given big
support during marginal electoral contests, could find themselves the repository
of protest votes by those who wish - as a result of the widespread disillusion
caused by the expenses scandal - to smash up the old, cosy system.

For the last four years, the views of the core vote have been put second to the
need to attract not so much floating voters, as those committed to other
parties. Now, as Lord Tebbit says, the core vote has somewhere else to go. Dave
and George will ridicule people who regard "progressive'' as a dirty word, but
many people dislike the idea for perfectly good reasons. The historically minded
know that being progressive is the mark of a Whig, not a Tory. But as Lord
Tebbit and some of the rest of us long ago worked out, whatever else Dave and
his friends are, Tory they definitely aren't.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

When I shoot I imagine the bird is Cherie Blair;
Lord Tebbit may now be a cookery author but Peter Stanford finds that the Tory;

is not above stirring the political pot

BYLINE: Peter Stanford

SECTION: NEWS; PROFILE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1091  words


NORMAN TEBBIT started going on shoots in the early 1980s at the suggestion of
his wife. "She felt I needed something to think about other than politics,'' he
recalls.

He was at the height of his political powers - Secretary of State for
Employment, Trade and Industry Secretary and finally chairman of the
Conservative Party under Margaret Thatcher. But shooting didn't quite work as
the distraction that Margaret Tebbit had intended.

"If I'm having a bad day with the gun,'' her husband confides with a schoolboy
grin, "I tend to imagine the bird is Neil Kinnock, or more recently Cherie
Blair, and my aim is guaranteed to improve.''

His hobby has, however, outlasted his front-line political career. Lord Tebbit,
the former MP for Chingford, has become an unlikely recruit to the ranks of
Nigella, Delia and Jamie with The Game Cook: A Rich Selection of My Unique Home
Recipes.

He still makes himself heard on the political stage - as his swipe this week at
David Cameron for "alienating'' hard-core Tories showed - but is cooking a new
career at 78? "I'm not aiming to make enough money to buy a football team, like
Delia,'' he replies.

It is not just his writing a cookbook that will raise eyebrows but his choice of
game as a subject. In the 1980s, Tebbit was the "voice of Essex Man'', a symbol
of the aspiring working classes. Game cooking is surely the preserve of the Old
Etonians currently running the Conservative Party? "One of the things people
worry about with game is that it is expensive,'' he replies, slipping
effortlessly into the role of cookery agony aunt, "but it isn't, unless you want
grouse or the prime cuts of venison. Most of my book is casserole cooking, and
you can buy a good rabbit for less than  pounds 3.''

The whole project, he says, was prompted by a conversation with his local
butcher. "I said to him one day, 'Why do people pay more for a rubber-boned
chicken from a supermarket than a good, honest pheasant?' His reply was, 'Well,
most of them think a pheasant is hard to cook, and they are scared of taking it
on.' ''

Lord Tebbit agreed to write out a few of his favourite game recipes and leave
them on the butcher's counter. Sales of pheasant shot up.

From those photocopied sheets has come The Game Cook. The grandson of a butcher,
Lord Tebbit started cooking as a young father, when he was off-duty as an
airline pilot. The image of him as a prototype "new man'' doesn't sit easily
with his Spitting Image puppet of a thug in a leather jacket.

However, The Game Cook also contains a generous helping of what Tebbit calls
"mischief - even at my age''. So there are pot shots at Brussels bureaucracy -
for trying to regulate the temperature at which game birds must be kept in a
cooler; at fashionable free-range birds "confined to a yard outside its barn'';
and a refusal to call a woman who fishes a "fisherperson''.

The passage of time has not mellowed Norman Tebbit's iconoclastic tendencies. At
least not much. His voice is gentler these days, and, as he describes in writing
about his wife, Margaret, in the introduction to his book, their life was never
the same after the IRA bomb attack on Brighton's Grand Hotel on Oct 12, 1984
during the Tory party conference: "For the past 24 years, since Sinn Fein/IRA
terrorists almost murdered us both and left her crippled, I have been the family
cook - assisted by advice from the wheelchair.''

He left the Cabinet after the 1987 general election to spend more time with
Margaret. Subsequent efforts failed to persuade him to return - even as a
leadership candidate following the forced resignation of Margaret Thatcher in
1990. "I had made a promise to my wife,'' he says simply and without emotion
when I ask if he regrets not running for prime minister.

Much has changed since that IRA attack. How does Tebbit regard the terrorists
who are now ministers at Stormont? "The only occasion I have written to a US
president,'' he says, "was when I wrote to George W Bush to suggest that while
he was conducting a war on terror, it was a little incongruous to allow himself
to be photographed in the company of Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness.''

His voice is calm but cold as he continues. "These days we are in the midst of a
disgust-fest about the BNP, which I share. It is a socialist party with a whiff
of racism, and that is pretty disgusting.

"But I find it hard to understand why people who stand next to convicted
terrorists because they are members of Sinn Fein can't find it in them even to
be in the same room as a member of the BNP, which doesn't have a terrorist
wing.''

Mention of the BNP raises the spectre of Tebbit's infamous "cricket test'' -
whether British citizens from ethnic minorities support, in a cricket match,
England or their country of origin. Many have suggested the comment betrayed an
innate racism. "It wasn't about racism,'' he scolds me. "It was about cultures
and attitudes. Are you really of here or are you still of there?''

Since we have entered the domain of politics, it seems fair game to ask him
about his attitude to Mr Cameron. Lord Tebbit recently ruffled Tory feathers by
advising voters to back Ukip in the European elections.

"I think it is highly probable,'' he says, "that David Cameron will become prime
minister, but not inevitable.'' He pauses, then: "I am not clear in my mind
where he wants to lead. My only hope is that his famous remark that he saw
himself as the heir to Blair will not be borne out.''

He worries, too, that an incoming Cameron administration will be short on
experience. "It will be a hell of a challenge,'' he says, "and the Civil Service
is no longer as good as when I was in government.''

He is not volunteering to come out of political retirement to do a bit of
mentoring. As his new book makes clear, it is the heat of a real kitchen he
prefers these days.

* The Game Cook: A Rich Selection of My Unique Home Recipes is available from
Telegraph Books at  pounds 12.99 +  pounds 1.25p&p. To order, call 0844 871 1515
or visit books.telegraph.co.uk

CV

Born March 29, 1931

Education Edmonton County School, Enfield

Family life Married to Margaret since 1956; three children

Political career MP for Epping 1970; MP for Chingford 1974; Employment Secretary
1981; Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 1984; Conservative Party
chairman 1985. Resigned from the cabinet in 1987. Given life peerage in 1992

Best known for While employment secretary, coining the phrase "get on your
bike'' to encourage people to look for work

Also known as Prince of Darkness; semi-house-trained polecat; the Chingford
Skinhead

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Jacko's moving memorial, Elton goes grunge, morris dances;
artistic differences

BYLINE: Nancy Durrant

SECTION: SATURDAY REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words


The hottest ticket in London since Michael Jackson's death has been Thriller
Live, a well-timed musical tribute. But what has happened to the massive shrine
erected outside the Lyric Theatre after the news? Nica Burns, the Lyric's owner,
tells us that, dramatically, it was stolen, in the dead of night, by a group of
Jackson fans, who smuggled the vast arrangement across London to the O2 arena.
"We were going to pack it all up and send it to his children," she says. The
Lyric, which is coining it after a weak start to the show, still plans to put up
a plaque to Jackson - presumably as a gesture of thanks.

One musical decidedly not coining it is Spider Man, written by Bono and the Edge
from U2. Due to open on Broadway next February, it looks like being caught in a
web of its own incompetence. The money has run out, with actors being released
and production crews put on "hiatus". With a price tag of $45 million, plus
reported weekly running costs of about $900,000 in a 1,700-seat theatre, the
chances of it turning a profit are about the same as spotting a superhero
swinging off the Statue of Liberty.

Is morris dancing about to get the boost it so badly needs? A film, Morris: A
Life with Bells On, is to be released in late September and will star a
gloriously English cast including Derek Jacobi, Ian Hart, Harriet Walter and
Greg Wise. So will this be the folkies' Billy Elliot?

Yet another ambitious architectural project bites the recessionary dust. Norman
Foster's Walbrook Square project, close to St Paul's Cathedral, was likened by
some to Darth Vader's helmet. But it has been cancelled at the behest of the
Spanish developer Metrovacesa. The City Heritage Society will be celebrating. It
complained: "The architects were trying too hard to be different and 'unique'."

Elton John may have got a grip on suitable hair pieces, but his taste in guest
vocal slots seems shaky. In the past he has said no to Lily Allen but lent his
larynx to comedy acts such as the Muppets, Alan Partridge ... and boy band Blue.
This week it was announced that he had recorded a track with the grunge rockers
Alice in Chains. Black Gives Way to Blue is a tribute to their singer who died
of a drug overdose. The Chains guitarist/vocalist Jerry Cantrell said: "We were
thinking about adding piano to the track and a friend suggested we call Elton. I
remember laughing and saying, 'Yeah, I'll get right on that.' " But it turns out
Elton "was very flattered and couldn't  resist". We now look forward to seeing
the goateed Cantrell sharing canapés with Liz Hurley at the next White Tie and
Tiara Ball.

Some 700 previously unseen letters by members of the Bloomsbury Group are to be
auctioned at Gorringes in Lewes on September 2. Helen Anrep, former wife of the
Russian painter Boris Anrep and lover of the critic Roger Fry, kept letters from
Fry, Virginia Woolf and painters Vanessa Bell and Augustus John, on everything
from recipes and gardening to more poignant matters. One especially devastating
letter from Bell reads simply: "Helen dearest. In case you hear - Julian died
from wounds a few days ago. V" Julian was Bell's son, who had been fighting in
the Spanish Civil War. Nancy Durrant

feud's corner Lord Tebbit v David Cameron

Does the former Conservative Party chairman ever speak to the current leader? "I
would be willing to but he doesn't talk to me," Lord Tebbit said in an interview
to promote his new opus, The Game Cookbook. "David thinks of me as part of the
nasty party that used to win elections." As he showed Radio 4's Evan Davis the
correct way to cook pheasant "with apples and cream", Lord Tebbit suggested that
the drive to win over "switchers" could drive Tory party faithfuls to UKIP and
admitted that Cameron's "Notting Hill set" would be his nightmare guests at a
dinner party.

TOO MANY CHIEFS? President Barack Obama places a Presidential Medal of Freedom
round the neck of Chief Joseph Medicine Crow. Send us your captions and win a
£100 voucher from PhotoBox, the leading online personal publishing and printing
service in Europe. Join PhotoBox.co.uk and bring your photos to life with its
fantastic range of innovative photo gifts. E-mail artistic
differences@thetimes.co.uk by Thursday. The winner of last week's caption
competition is Jonathan Ironside-Smith

There's no O in Y.M.C.A, Mr President

So I said: Dmitri, this could just as easily be you...

wit and wisdom

There are no rules about ageing.

I'mgoingtofightitevery step of the way.

Former Olympic medal-winning swimmer Sharron Davies admits to using Botox " "

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LAURA AND ABE
ALEX BRANDON / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             August 14, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tebbit in vote alert on UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


LORD Tebbit has warned David Cameron he risks pushing traditional Tory voters
towards UKIP if he keeps trying to woo disenchanted Labour and Lib Dem
supporters.

The ex-Cabinet minister, 78, said yesterday the Tories may alienate core voters
by trying to appeal to Brits who had backed Centre Left parties.

The peer told BBC Radio 4 Mr Cameron could push away the Tory "hard core".

He said: "They may stay at home or defect to UKIP in the same way a lot of old
Labour voters defected to the BNP."

But he acknowledged the Tories were on course to win the next election. He also
said Mr Cameron never talks to him, adding: "He thinks of me as part of the
nasty party that used to win elections."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning ... Tebbit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             August 14, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tebbit in vote alert

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 67 words


LORD Tebbit has warned David Cameron he risks pushing traditional Tory voters
towards UKIP if he keeps trying to woo disenchanted Labour and Lib Dem
supporters.

The ex-Cabinet minister, 78, said the Tories may alienate core voters by trying
to appeal to Brits who had backed Centre-Left parties.

The peer said: "They may defect to UKIP." But he acknowledged the Tories were on
course to win the next election.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Who cares if Professor Stephen Hawking lives or dies.
Actually, we all do

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 641 words


* So Barack Obama is facing the fight of his life (another one) as he attempts
to reform the US healthcare system. The "special interests" - doctors,
healthcare companies - don't like it. The "birthers" - crazy types who hope to
prove he is not American - smell blood. The danger, says the Investor's Business
Daily, is that he borrows too much from the UK. "The controlling of medical
costs in countries such as Britain through rationing, and the health
consequences thereof, are legendary. The stories of people dying on a waiting
list or being denied altogether read like a horror script . . . People such as
scientist Stephen Hawking wouldn't have a chance in the UK, where the National
Health Service would say the life of this brilliant man, because of his physical
handicaps, is essentially worthless." We say his life is far from worthless, as
they do at Addenbrooke's hospital, Cambridge, where Professor Hawking, who has
motor neurone disease, was treated for chest problems in April. As indeed does
he. "I wouldn't be here today if it were not for the NHS," he told us. "I have
received a large amount of high-quality treatment without which I would not have
survived." Something here is worthless. And it's not him.

* It's a rough and tumble game, is politics. If you are Mandy, the snappers
follow you on holiday. If you are Hazel, evildoers set about your car. And if
you are Liberal Democrat frontbencher Paul Rowen (pictured), they say myriad
nasty things about you. On the strength of a published expenses claim, detailing
fruit bought for an intern, they may even call you "bananas". But they do so at
their peril. We learn that unless he receives a retraction, Rowen is to sue the
Labour candidate in Rochdale, Simon Danczuk. Labour produced two aggressive
campaigning leaflets, one of which made much of the fruity, if entirely legal,
expenses claim for a 40p banana. Rowen did not like the leaflets. He may not
like bananas. At this stage we just can't say. There are many accusations that
might irk him. The banana thing is merely the most eye-catching. "The ordinary
and natural meaning of the above statement is that our client is 'insane',
'unbelievable' or 'ridiculous'," says the legal letter, extracted in a Labour
press release. "This allegation is untrue. Our client is not 'insane',
'unbelievable', or 'ridiculous'. It is accordingly incorrect to state that our
client is 'bananas' and you have no evidence whatsoever of our client being
'bananas' (ie being 'insane', 'unbelievable' or 'ridiculous')." We have no such
evidence and make no such claim, but it seems clear that things have got pretty
rumbustious in Rochdale. A wafer-thin majority - 1.1% last time - will do that.
A time for cool heads and, perhaps, thick skins.

* With the Commons all rattled we look to the upper house for sense and
stability. This from the Ukip peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch. "To ask Her
Majesty's Government how much is paid annually to members of bigamous Islamic
families in housing benefit and other social security payments." The answer:
"The social security system only recognises relationships that have been
lawfully contracted in the UK or in other jurisdictions." Civilisation survives
to fight another day.

* Lord Berkeley, meanwhile, teases out of government the fact that a bridge for
bats over the Dobwalls bypass in Cornwall cost £300,000. "The bridges provide a
linear feature over the bypass that is used by the bats to guide them along
their flight lines," explains Lord Adonis. A toll was not practical. Pity.

* And finally, we do not doubt that Julian Leppart, the BNP councillor for
Redbridge, east London got rid of his car on discovering that the licence plate
appeared to say Nazi (NA5IZCY). Anyone would. And a mistake is a mistake. But if
he sold it, who bought it? Does it veer to the right.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SF 'pals with Brits'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


SINN Fein has been accused of cosying up to British Eurosceptics over the Lisbon
Treaty.

Ex-Euro MP Pat Cox said SF would have us "line up with those hostile to the EU,
like the British Tory Party and UKIP, whose MEPs wore leprechaun hats in the
European Parliament in support of the No vote".

SF chief Gerry Adams said yesterday: "This was a bad treaty when last it was
presented - exactly the same treaty is being presented once again."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 August 9, 2009

Tory policy on Europe is an unseemly shambles

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 622 words


CONSERVATIVE PARTY policy on Europe is a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside
William Hague. Mr Hague is poised to be foreign secretary. The mystery is how a
Tory government will behave within a European Union governed by the Lisbon
Treaty, a document to which the party is viscerally hostile. The enigma is Mr
Hague's assertion that, in the event that Lisbon is in force by the time the
Tories come to power, they "should not let matters rest there".

No amount of probing has elicited clarification of what that means, although Mr
Hague has conceded that he ought to explain before polling day.

The reason for the delay is simple. Divisions over the EU nearly snapped the
Conservative party in half in the late 1990s. The Tories have ceded a tranche of
their anti-EU constituency to Ukip and have to guard that flank vigilantly.
Sullen, ill-defined scepticism is the warmest posture that David Cameron dares
strike towards Europe before the election.

But that timetable doesn't bind anyone else. Ireland holds its second referendum
on the Lisbon Treaty - with opinion polls indicating a likely "yes" vote - a few
days before the Conservative annual conference in October.

Meanwhile, as the Observer reports today, the Polish head of the Conservatives
and Reformists (ECR) group in the European Parliament, set up by the Tories to
resist European "federalism", turns out to be happy with the Lisbon
arrangements. Michal Kaminski believes they "guarantee Poland's sovereignty".
But Mr Hague insists the same treaty proves that "political integration has gone
too far". So does he think the ECR chair is soft on sovereignty?

That is unlikely. Mr Kaminski has a background in radical nationalist politics
that has already mired the European Conservative group in controversy, including
allegations - hotly denied - of antisemitism, racism and homophobia.

While that row should embarrass the Tories, they have perversely tried to play
it to their advantage. The argument around Mr Kaminski has meandered down byways
of Polish history and definitions of prejudice - easier debating terrain for the
Tories than 21st-century EU policy.

That in itself is proof that, on Europe, Mr Cameron has parked his party in an
intellectual cul-de-sac.

There are reasons why even the most fervent pro-Europeans dislike the Lisbon
Treaty. It does not go far enough in reforming the commission or the parliament.
But that is the result of lengthy haggling between enthusiasts and sceptics
across the Continent. Britain is not the only country where voters are wary of
European institutions, although it may soon be the only major power where the
governing party is incapable of seeing virtue in those institutions; or if it
sees virtue, is unable to acknowledge it.

Lisbon is an inelegant treaty, but that is usually the nature of compromise. The
fact is that a substantial number of Tories, including many of the young
candidates currently being selected, do not want compromise within the EU, they
want out of it.

Meanwhile, the few remaining pro-European Tories are mostly silent. There are
exceptions.

Former party chairman Chris Patten last week hinted that he would be interested
in taking the new job of European foreign policy chief, as created under Lisbon.
"Unhelpful," was Mr Hague's curt response.

Many of the pro-Europeans, being of an older Tory generation, hope that the
experience of government will inject some Euro-pragmatism into the neophyte
frontbench. Hardline sceptics fear the same and are poised to accuse Mr Cameron
of "selling out".

And what do Mr Cameron and Mr Hague expect will happen? What does it mean to
"not let matters rest"? By ducking the question, they leave only one answer to
the riddle of their policy on Europe: it is cowardice.


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Trusted BBC has fallen from grace

SECTION: LETTERS; 46

LENGTH: 101  words


HOW far the BBC, our once-great, impartial corporation, has fallen. It has
become a farce, showing ageism towards its female personalities, however
talented they may be.

It is so anti-UKIP it reported the Greens as the fourth party, even though UKIP
polled more than 700 more votes. Now it has banned chefs from using organic
foods on TV in recipes despite the reporting on organic food being suspect ("BBC
snubs organic food as it teaches us how to eat well", Sunday Express, A ugust
2).

The BBC was trusted worldwide for its unbiased reporting and programmes - not
any more.

Margaret Brakell, Redhill, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 August 9, 2009

British law no longer protects us

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 666  words


In 2001, when EU leaders gathered in Laeken, Belgium, to plan their next great
leap forward to European integration - the ill-fated EU constitution - they also
agreed on what they saw as another bold symbol of their wish to see Europe
politically and legally united: the European Arrest Warrant. Fired by the recent
9/11 outrage, they agreed that the courts of any country could call on those of
another to order the automatic extradition of anyone suspected of offences under
32 headings, with such crimes as terrorism, drug-running and "xenophobia'' high
on their list.

Even then, fears were expressed that such a summary shortcutting of normal legal
procedures might lead to serious injustices. Not all of the EU's judicial
systems (to put it mildly) rest on the same ideas of justice. But even those
most worried about the dangers of this system could scarcely have imagined a
case like that involving the extradition to Greece of a 20-year old British
student, Andrew Symeou.

In 2007, Mr Symeou, from Enfield, was on holiday in the Greek island of
Zakynthos. One evening, he paid a short visit to a nightclub. A couple of days
later, he returned happily to England. Two days after that, however, two friends
who had remained on the island were arrested by the police and aggressively
questioned for eight hours about an incident that had taken place in the club on
the evening of Mr Symeou's visit.

Another young Englishman had allegedly been punched off the stage, sustaining
serious head injuries from which he died in hospital. The police had, for some
reason never quite clear, decided to fix their suspicions on Mr Symeou. His
friends, by their own account, were beaten and threatened by the police until
they signed statements implicating Mr Symeou. As soon as they were released,
they protested about their treatment to the British consul, wholly retracting
the statements which they claimed to have signed under duress.

The only other evidence against Mr Symeou was an eye-witness description of the
assailant, as tall and blond, whereas Mr Symeou is short and dark and was, at
that time, bearded. For a year nothing happened, until in July 2008 Mr Symeou
was told a European Arrest Warrant had been issued for him and that he would be
extradited to Greece, as was confirmed by Horseferry Road magistrates.

In light of the evidence of alleged misconduct by the Greek police and other
suspicious features of the case, a legal battle ensued. Mr Symeou's case was
taken up by various bodies including Fair Trials International, Liberty, Open
Europe and the UK Independence Party. (Politicians of the three main parties
pointedly refused to get involved.) In June this year, two High Court judges
proposed that the case should go to the House of Lords because it raised legal
issues of "public importance''. But the Law Lords refused to hear it because it
did not raise "an arguable point of law of general public importance''.

On July 23, Mr Symeou was deported to Greece, where he was not allowed bail
because he is not domiciled in Greece. He was imprisoned for some days in
concrete cells in Zakynthos, locked up with illegal Albanian immigrants in
intense heat and taunted for being British, until he was last week transferred
to another prison near Athens. His parents, allowed to speak to him through
bars, say he is not taking his ordeal well. He could be held in prison for up to
18 months before trial, although this week his Greek lawyer hopes to win a
further plea for bail.

Little could Tony Blair and his fellow European leaders have imagined in 2001,
when they blithely agreed to strike a blow against terrorism by agreeing to the
Arrest Warrant, that this was what it would come down to in practice. All
traditional British beliefs in protecting the liberties of the subject have been
thrown out of the window. Mr Blair  - and all those other politicians who
acclaimed the Arrest Warrant and have refused to comment on Mr Symeou's case -
can really be proud of what they have done.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Bridge

BYLINE: Andrew Robson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 388 words


K107 of clubs ... I lay restlessly in bed (swatting mosquitoes - this was
Tangier, Morocco) cursing the holding.

The contract was 1NT doubled. Declarer (top fund manager Giles Hargreave) had
led a crafty eight of clubs at some point and caught me (West) napping. Cover
the eight with the ten (or king) and I restrict declarer to one club trick. When
I played low on the eight (oh dear), declarer ran the card to East's queen and
later finessed dummy's jack. This extra trick gave declarer his doubled
contract.

Worse followed a day later.

West was our Moroccan host, Tory then UKIP donor and father of supermodel
Jacquetta, Stuart Wheeler. Always a tough opponent, Wheeler wanted to lead an
aggressive club (dummy's "suit"), perhaps bullying me out of a finesse fearing
the lead being singleton.

Had West chosen to lead the seven of clubs, declarer makes two club tricks. He
plays low from dummy allowing East to score the queen, and, after drawing trumps
and finding out diamonds do not co-operate, is able successfully to finesse the
jack of clubs. Twelve tricks and slam made.

However, West chose the ten of clubs as his lead - an inspired choice as
declarer could no longer use the power of his. 98 to generate a second trick in
the suit. He covered with the jack, East winning the queen and returning a
second club to the nine, king and ace. Declarer drew trumps in three rounds and
played for a squeeze ending. It didn't work - down one.

I realised later that I could have succeeded even after West's devilish ten of
clubs lead. After two rounds of trumps (including dummy's ace), leave East's
third trump out and play out ace-kingqueen of diamonds. The suit does not split
but - the extra chance - it is East who has the length. So peacefully ruff the
fourth diamond in dummy, ruff a club back to hand, finally draw East's trump,
and claim 12 tricks and the slam.

I swatted another mosquito.

andrew.robson@thetimes.co.uk

First this: Dummy West (AR). AJ3 East. K107. Q652 Declarer. 984

Dealer South N-S Vul . A 10 6. A K 7 6. A 10 3. A J 5. 9 7 5. 3. J 9 8 6. Q 6432
N W E S . J 8. Q 10 9 8 4 2. 7 4. K 10 7. K Q 4 3 2. J 5. K Q 5 2. 9 8 S (AR) W
N E 1. Pass 2. (1) Pass 2. (2) Pass 6. (3) End (1) Standard waiting bid with
this shape -1. -2. shows five+ hearts. (2) Advertising my five-four shape. (3)
Refreshingly direct approach.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             August 7, 2009 Friday

Months to wait for Labour candidate

SECTION:

LENGTH: 143 words


A LABOUR parliamentary candidate for Darlington may not be chosen until the end
of the year.

The process to find a replacement for Alan Milburn will take about 12 weeks once
a decision on the format of the shortlist is made.

Labour's National Executive Committee will consult Party members in Darlington
to decide whether to have an open or an all-female shortlist.

The committee has the final say on the shortlist, but did not make its decision
before the summer recess. An outcome is expected in September or October.

Neil Fleming, Labour party spokesman for the North, expected a candidate to be
named in about three months' time.

Mr Milburn decided in June to stand down as Darlington's MP after 17 years in
Parliament.

Edward Legard is the Conservative candidate, Mike Barker will stand for the
Liberal Democrats and Charlotte Bull for the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tories to take 68-seat majority, polls show

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 268 words


THE CONSERVATIVES have widened their lead over Labour to 14 points, according to
the latest "poll of polls" for The Independent.

David Cameron's party has also reached the 40 per cent support level seen as
crucial for delivering a clear general election victory. Its backing has risen
by three points in a month at the expense of falling ratings for smaller
parties.

The weighted average of five polls last month puts the Tories on 40 per cent (up
three points), Labour on 26 per cent (up two), the Liberal Democrats unchanged
on 19 per cent and other parties on 15 per cent (down five). Repeated at a
general election, that would give Mr Cameron an overall majority of 68 seats - a
similar margin to that achieved by Tony Blair in 2005.

The figures were based on the last polls before MPs left Westminster for their
summer recess, including a ComRes survey for The Independent which put the
Conservatives on 42 per cent and Labour on 24 per cent. The Conservatives have
now enjoyed a consistent double-digit lead over Labour since the beginning of
the year. John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University,
compiled the figures and said there appeared to have been a "decisive long-term
shift in the public mood" since the spring last year. Last autumn's recovery in
Government support now seems to have been "little more than a temporary blip",
he said. "Labour evidently has a tough job on its hands to shift this now
long-standing public mood once more."

Support for other parties such as the UK Independence Party and the Greens
reached a peak in June amid anger over the MPs' expenses scandal.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

9 ON DATA RAP

BYLINE: DAVID WOODING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words


NINE council workers have been sacked for snooping on a Government-run "Big
Brother" database, it was revealed last night.

They are among 34 staff caught looking up the private details of celebrities,
partners and friends.

The breaches, revealed under freedom of information laws, sparked calls for
tighter security.

The CIS database, run by the Department for Work and Pensions, stores up to
9,800 items of information about millions of people. It is seen as the fledgling
system for the £5.6billion national ID card plan.

More than 200,000 Government officials - including staff at 480 local
authorities - have access.

Last night UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "This confirms everything we knew about
the dangers of the National ID database."

The DWP insisted that the database was carefully monitored.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: They are angry. Angry as hell. You would never guess
that they're winning

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 676 words


The Tory heartlands are buzzing with anticipation as the opinion polls point to
a Cameron government, but the news is not all good. There had been a certain
detachment among activists up until now. However, with the winning post at last
in sight, things have got rather scratchy. An ill-tempered debate on the
supporters' website, ConservativeHome, shows a barely restrained contempt for
Dave's plan to modernise the party by ensuring equality on candidate shortlists.
"CCHQ must not be allowed to get away with this," says one agitated supporter.
"I hope that there will be a large-scale revolt. The top echelons of today's
Tory party are becoming control freaks. What are they afraid of?" "Pathetic
isn't it," snorts another. "Ukip must be laughing their pants off. 50% of the
final list must be female. 10% must be gay. 10% must be from ethnic background.
10% from disability background. 10% must have beards. 10% must have an 'r' in
the month they were born." For all that, some of them back Dave. "Foxy females?
Now there's a thought," proclaims a loyalist. "Why do MPs have to be so damn
ugly? Let's discriminate in favour of some good-looking people for a change!
Haha."

Yes, it's scratchy. A heated ConservativeHome debate on Boris's City Hall
equalities agenda (such as it is) elicits this, from one angry commenter on the
site: "You silly bitch. You obviously don't know many men. If you did, then
you'd know that there are many of us who also do a full day's work, and then
come home to keep a family going. And the saintly women of this world seem to
have a monopoly on caring and intelligence and empathy and all the other 'good'
traits of humankind. But you know what, arsehole, you don't and you never have.
Men are inherently better than women, and white men are at the apex. The sad
thing is that you have browbeaten several generations of men into believing they
are guilty of something quite undefined, and they have spent the past decades
trying to make amends. You and your womankind, and the socialists and the
Muslims of this world make me sick." Dear reader, this is what Dave is up
against.

Mounting fear on the eve of the Campaign for Real Ale's Great British Beer
Festival, which starts at Earls Court today. The beers are fine, as is the
ambience, but the event is plagued by misunderstanding. "We spend more time in
the first week of August combating beardism in the media than any other during
the year," says an anxious Keith Flett of the Beard Liberation Front. "A
frequently used stereotypical picture used to illustrate stories about the beer
festival consists of one or two very large men with beards holding a half full
pint glass, but such images at the festival itself are in practice rare. There
are excellent beards at Earls Court of course but the idea is to celebrate the
diversity of beers, ciders and perries." Arrgh, they are banging on about
diversity again. Don't tell the angry Tories.

We riled the army last week by claiming that it has nothing to compare with the
Afghan model village commissioned for training purposes by the US marines. Oh
yes we do, said the MoD. We have STANTA in Norfolk. It "replicates as closely as
possible the situations, sights and smells which troops could face on
operations". They "hear the call to prayer from the mosque, practise their
patrolling skills in a network of high-walled, claustrophobic alleyways and face
a bustling Afghan bazaar, all designed to test and develop the soldiers tactics,
drills and procedures". The guns, they jam, helicopters arrive late. All true to
life. Completely authentic.

Finally, amid more allegations about MPs' expenses and claims by Eric Pickles
that another 30 Tories may yet stand down before the next election, an
observation from eagle-eyed passer-by Alan Dyson. "I've noticed a lot of work
going on at the house which James Purnell claims as his main home lately: new
central heating and such," says Alan. "Perhaps he's going to live in it." Well
Alan, he is a backbencher now. And as we see, a man of many talents.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             August 3, 2009 Monday

Cricket: Third npower Test: Johnson at last finds his radar but Australia's
bowlers scare no one

BYLINE: Kevin Mitchell Edgbaston

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 838 words


At the start of this tour, Mitchell Johnson and Andrew Flintoff were universally
identified as the bowlers most pivotal to the outcome of the series. Who would
have predicted, then, that a more likely candidate for the accolade might be a
man who shares a name with a root vegetable - or perhaps a long-necked bird?

It was Graham Onions and Graeme Swann who tip-toed on to the stage yesterday
evening to concentrate Australian minds to the point of anxiety and give England
a good chance of victory today.

It has been that sort of series, one of preconceived thoughts shaken, of old
assumptions about superiority challenged in almost every session. It clearly is
a summer of change, one in its own way almost as engaging as that of 2005.

Flintoff stuck to the script at Lord's, winning the second Test for England. But
the prospect of his doing it again with the ball - even if he will be able or
allowed to drag himself to the starting line at Headingley on Friday - did not
look a given yesterday, despite his heroics with the bat.

He heaved his way through four ineffectual overs, almost for show, guarding his
wounded knee at the top of Australia's second innings, and the uncomfortable
thought occurred that we might have seen the last of him in Test cricket, except
maybe as a batsman, and that is a marginal call.

Johnson? After the most embarrassing disappearance since the Titanic, he has
surfaced in the sometime lake that is Edgbaston to remind doubters that, when
the gears click, he is the best bowler in the world.

There is no doubt that a left-arm fast bowler who can hit 90 miles an hour and
swing the thing like Benny Goodman is entitled to be revered. But not when he
bowls like his mother. He was almost his old self against Northamptonshire last
weekend, but only in the eyes of his kindest critics.

Here he has done valiant service, fighting against his eccentric action,
struggling not to let that left shoulder dip as he approaches the crease. On day
four of the third Test, he bowled well. Not brilliantly, not with consistent,
irresistible menace. Just well. As he should do.

And while he was clearly Australia's best hope of a breakthrough so ordinary
were his partners, Ben Hilfenhaus in the morning apart, and so poor had he been
in the first two Tests, especially at Lord's, his efforts were acclaimed out of
all proportion to the facts: a strike rate of a wicket every 66 deliveries and
an economy rate of 4.38 runs for each of his 21 overs.

This is a poor Australian attack, one which England's batsmen, even the
tailenders, flayed at an average of 4.02 an over, sometimes nearly six an over,
briefly at 10 an over.

The batting on either side you can safely assume is going to thrill and
disappoint in equal measure, but there was abundant evidence again yesterday
that these Australian bowlers are not to be trusted to live up to the
expectations we have of them.

Shane Watson, for a start, was supposed to be insurance for the flaky spearhead
Johnson, an assumption that looked idiotic as he lumbered in as if his trousers
were held up by a two-stone belt. At times it seemed Johnson was cover for
Watson, who is more impressive now as an opening batsman.

The bowlers have not been helped by a selection policy more conservative than a
UKIP manifesto, but who would have predicted at the start of play that their
best bowler would be Johnson? Johnson, of course, because, despite his quiet
demeanour, he is deceptively determined.

On a wicket that has given up Warwickshire 17 draws in their past 20 matches,
swing bowlers such as Johnson and Hilfenhaus might have thought about taking the
pitch out of the equation. They did not always do so.

The momentum shifted from caution to adventure when Hilfenhaus ended his 14-over
spell, and Watson was introduced. If Stuart Clark had been coming on then, it is
unlikely the attack would have leaked 50 runs in 38 balls, 23 of them coming
from Watson's three insipid overs. After three overs of towering mediocrity he
took his sweater and his injured pride off to cover point. He did not return.

At least Johnson was rewarded for his endeavours - "at long, bloody last," as an
Australian admirer in the press box observed - when he worked Ian Bell over with
an impressive selection of bouncers before finally persuading Rudi Koertzen that
a ball striking the batsman's pads and heading without impediment towards the
stumps is regarded by most umpires as out.

It came way too late, perhaps, 35 runs after an identical delivery the previous
session - two days previously, as it happens - had failed to excite Rudi. But it
was sweetness itself for Mitch. It had broken the spell, given him some sort of
lift and self-belief.

There is much to admire about the big Queenslander, and it is not just his good
manners and dignity as his life and career daily resemble a sheepdog being
tumble-dried in a giant laundromat. When he bats sometime today he will have his
chance to do what Fred did with the bat, and prove there's more to him than
merely the things we expect of him.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 2, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Landslide victory for Tories in poll

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 636  words


DAVID CAMERON is on course for a landslide victory at the next general election,
according to a survey.

The poll of voters in 30 key marginal seats gives the Tories a commanding
24-point lead over Labour.

It suggests that Mr Cameron, who was due to fly off for a family holiday in
Greece yesterday, is now on course for a stunning landslide victory.

The poll puts the Tories on 44 points, Labour on just 20 and the Liberal
Democrats on 18.

The results confirm an astonishing reversal of Labour's fortunes under Gordon
Brown.

An identical poll in the same constituencies two years ago, when Mr Brown was
enjoying a brief honeymoon as Prime Minister after taking over from Tony Blair,
gave Labour a seven-point lead over the Tories.

The poll confirms Lord Mandelson's view, made public last week, that despite
having a healthy Parliamentary majority Labour are now the "underdogs" of
British politics.

The findings will deepen the gloom among Labour MPs, many of whom are already
refreshing their CVs in the expectation of losing their seats next year at the
general election.

The disastrous figures will also strengthen the hand of Mr Brown's Labour
critics who believe he is not capable of turning the Party's fortunes around by
the time of the next election.

Last week the loyalist backbencher Barry Sheerman, MP for Huddersfield, warned
Mr Brown he had until the party conference at the end of September to show he
was capable of winning another term for Labour.

Mr Brown is now on a five-week break, split between Scotland and a holiday home
in the Lake District.

But he has already started work on his conference speech, which critics y will
"make or break" his future as Prime Minister.

The new results are in line with the outcome of last month's by-election in
Norwich North, where Tory Chloe Smith turned a 5,000 Labour majority into a
Conservative majority of more than 7,000. If the new results were repeated at
the general election they would produce a Tory majority of 248 seats, with
Labour reduced to a rump of just 136 MPs and the number of Lib Dem MPs almost
halved to 35.

Key figures to lose their seats in such a Tory landslide would include
Chancellor Alistair Darling, Culture Secretary Ben Bradshaw and the Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg.

Outside London, Labour would be left with just one seat, Bristol South, in
southern England.

The poll also suggests that the minor parties are continuing to attract
significant support in the wake of the MPs' expenses scandal.

UKIP and the Greens were on six points, with the far-Right BNP on three.
However, the findings also uggest Labour's prospects could mprove if there were
clear signs that Britain is emerging from recession.

Almost two-thirds of voters (61 pe cent) named the economy as the single most
important issue for the Government to tackle, with a furthe 10 per cent
identifying unemployment as the key issue.

The poll, by Crosby/Textor/Pepper, will reinforce Mr Brown's natural caution
about calls from some aides to surprise the Tories with a snap election this
autumn.

Instead, he is likely to leave the election until the last possible moment in
the hope that the economy will then finally be showing signs of recovery.

While most economists expect the recession to bottom out around the end of this
year, unemployment is predicted to break through the three million mark by the
likely time of the election in May next year.

Yesterday it emerged that taxpayers are to fund gap years for hundreds o
graduates in what will be seen as an attempt to massage the jobless figures by
keeping them off the dole queue.

The initiative is reminiscent o Conservative schemes to improve the unemployment
fiures while the own economic crisis in the Eighties.

The poll of 1,004 voters was carried out during the first half of July in 30 o
the most marginal Labour and Lib Dem seats.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
