
                               1 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 31, 2004

THAT WAS 2004 THAT WAS!

BYLINE: ROBERT HARDMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST_SPR; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 2152 words



WHAT a year to be Greece, Tesco, Arsenal, or a fusspot from the health and
safety department - victorious all.

What a year not to be an errant footballer, a hunter or a gallant member of the
Black Watch.

And if you are an MP, the Post Office or most of the Civil Service, who cares
what sort of year it was? It was all someone else's fault and the taxpayer will
cough up regardless.

Historians, of course, will take a loftier view when they come to analyse 2004
from a comfortable perch some time in the future.

They may treat the past 12 months as a mere collection of footnotes in the
greater scheme of things. But, as December's curtain falls, we may feel that we
have lived through history.

Our view on the year will, doubtless, be touched by the grim perspective of
recent days in Asia. But there will be other moments from 2004 that will remain
etched in our memories long after we have forgotten the exact year in which they
occurred.

Will they be the small print of the Hutton/ Butler/Budd reports? Probably not.
They are more likely to be, say, the panting, wide-eyed incredulity of a
victorious Kelly Holmes.

Who still talks about that great Home Office scandal which wrecked a promising
ministerial career and a woman's reputation? Not the David Blunkett affair,
silly. I'm talking about the April downfall of Immigration Minister Beverley
Hughes, who fibbed about her handling of bogus visa claims.

Can't picture her? Actually, nor can I.

So, what is it that we will actually remember and not merely recall when
prompted?

For many, it will be the scandal. We really have to go back to the heyday of
John Major's yo-yo-trousered administration to find quite such an abundance.
This year, it was a case of the footballers versus The Spectator.

In a game of two halves, the footballers dominated the first, led by a trio from
struggling Leicester City who went golfing at Spain's La Manga resort. They fell
in with a trio of girls who were not there for the Ladies Open, and briefly
ended up in jail on rape charges, later dismissed.

Meanwhile, up the road at Real Madrid, David Beckham was learning about Spanish
ways with a translator called Rebecca Loos. She turned out be a bilingual,
bisexual diplomat's daughter with somewhat stronger 'Posh' credentials than Mrs
Beckham and a readiness to make eye-popping allegations to the media.

While Mrs Beckham kept her cool and announced a fresh pregnancy, Beckham's
England team-mate, Wayne Rooney, did his best to amend the scandal deficit.

He paid frequent visits to a Merseyside brothel, where his encounters included a
chainsmoking grandmother clad entirely in PVC.

His fiancee, Coleen McLoughlin, continues to exact revenge by using Rooney's
credit card to fund an eternal quest for something tasteful.

The bosses did their best to keep up. When it emerged that England manager Sven
Goran Eriksson had been sleeping with the same secretary as the Football
Association's chief executive, Mark Palios, Eriksson denied it. When it turned
out to be true, everyone lost their jobs except Eriksson.

No such luck for Boris Johnson, Spectator editor and MP for Henley.

Having dismissed reports of an affair with a colleague as an 'inverted pyramid
of piffle', he later had to admit it was actually a trapezium of truth, costing
him his position on the

Conservative front bench. Lying to the Commons may not be a sin under this
Government, but Mr Johnson's crime had been to lie to the Leader of the
Opposition.

The Spectator's transformation from Dickensian curiosity shop to Playboy Mansion
began when married columnist Rod Liddle fell for the receptionist.

The magazine's profile rose again after an editorial on Liverpool's capacity for
self-pity turned out to be factually flawed. Mr Johnson's political master,
Michael Howard, sent him on bended knee to grovel to Merseyside.

Mr Johnson's own affair then fell into the open but was nothing compared to the
athletics of the magazine's publisher, Kimberly Quinn.

As her tangled private life unfolded, the Carry On plotline of The Spectator
year took a more serious turn which was to bring down the Home Secretary, David
Blunkett, and enshroud several families in misery.

Other celebrities did their best to divert attention. Britney Spears married
childhood friend Jason Alexander in Las Vegas and waited an entire 55 hours
before getting divorced. The experience scarred her so much that it was not
until September that she married again to dancer Kevin Federline.

Jemima Khan (formerly Mrs Imran) and Sloane bumbler Hugh Grant finally confirmed
London's worst-kept secret when they were spotted together all over the world.

Charlotte Church held an 18th birthday party and had trouble leaving.

Model Kate Moss had a 30th birthday at Claridge's and had trouble getting some
guests to keep their clothes on.

In its quest for ratings, ITV dispatched two sets of alleged celebs into their
jungle survival contest.

The winners were someone called Joe Pasquale and someone called Kerry McFadden.

It was to be the only Kerry victory of 2004. Like his namesake, John Kerry can
now look forward to a future as a subject of where-arethey-now shows and pub
quizzes.

The battle for the White House kept pundits baffled to the bitter end.

While liberals the world over scoffed at the shortcomings of President George W.
Bush, there could be no squabbling at the end of this poll.

Mr Bush's Iraqi campaign plodded on in agony. America's reputation suffered
chronic damage when photographs emerged showing grotesque abuse of Iraqi
prisoners by grinning halfwits in U.S. uniform.

Hardly a week went by without another suicide bombing, another cleric preaching
death to the infidel, another flag-draped coffin heading home to an
uncomprehending family.

Into all this crept a hideous new trend in the form of kidnaps followed by
ritual slaughter. Britain's Ken Bigley and Margaret Hassan, a heroic aid
organiser, were among those slaughtered after protracted pleas for clemency.

British troops continued to stand their ground. Not that it did them any favours
with the Government.

The Black Watch, due for autumn leave, were instead deployed to the hellhole of
Fallujah until Christmas.

With five dead, they returned home to find that their regiment and its
centuries-old traditions were to vanish into a new 'super-regiment'.

The Army also stood firm against the Daily Mirror's allegations that British
troops had abused Iraqi prisoners. The Mirror's photographs of a soldier
urinating on a surprisingly

clean prisoner in a tidy truck were finally confirmed as a hoax and editor Piers
Morgan lost his job.

BBC director-general Greg Dyke had suffered a similar fate four months earlier
after the BBC was thrashed in Lord Hutton's report into the 'sexed-up' dossier
saga.

Around the world, fundamentalist atrocities continued. In March, 191 train
passengers died in an Al Qaeda bombing in Madrid.

The world was more appalled still six months later. Who had heard of North
Ossetia, let alone Beslan, before September 1? Who will forget those scenes as
Chechen separatists stormed those bright-eyed, first-day-at-school celebrations,
wired bombs to the innocent and massacred 330? Elsewhere, there were mixed
blessings.

Palestine finally lost its stumbling block when Yasser Arafat died far from the
bosom (and discomforts) of his people, in the luxury of a Paris hospital. As
cries went up for more international aid, few seemed keen on tracking down the
hundreds of millions that the old crook had squirrelled away abroad.

And in Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko's toxin-scarred rubble of a face stood out as
a symbol of defiance - and, ultimately, victory.

In Britain, Tony Blair continued to take hit after hit - on war, tuition fees,
ID cards, cronies, dismal council and Euro elections and so on.

John Prescott's plan for a new tier of useless legislators in the North-East
bombed magnificently. David Blunkett added to Mr Blair's woes by blabbing his -
widely-shared - contempt for large sections of the Cabinet.

The polls show that Mr Blair is clearly scathed. In October, he announced the
beginning of the end, saying that he had undergone a small heart operation,
would not seek a fourth term and had somehow found the readies for a Pounds 3.6
million home in London.

And yet the Tory threat proved about as convincing as Dasani, Coca-Cola's
disastrous attempt at bottled water from a tap in Sidcup.

No one swallowed that either.

Mr Blair's European aspirations remain deeply alien to an electorate that
returned 11 MEPs for the UK Independence Party (ten now that Robert Kilroy-Silk
- recently doused in a familiar bucket of bull**** - has gone his own way).

The public remain deeply suspicious of an EU that produced an 852-page
constitution but omitted Wales from the European map.

It was a splendid year for public sector incompetence. For some reason, public
servants were sick 11 days of the year while private sector workers ailed for
eight. The Post Office - which continued to offer authentic time travel back to
the mid-Seventies - excelled itself.

The Royal Mail decided to 'improve' things by dropping morning deliveries.

Then it admitted losing a staggering 14 million letters a year. Undercover
reporters managed to track several of them down - to the nearest bin.

The Scottish Parliament opened at a cost of Pounds 430 million. That is more
than ten times the original budget of Pounds 40 million. Naturally, no one is to
blame. So we all pay up.

At least we now have a monument to civic ineptitude. The Diana, Princess of
Wales Memorial Drain opened and then closed within hours, and still provides a
home to unwanted shopping trolleys.

If only they were as efficient as the health and safety commissars whose grip is
forever tightening around the throat of fun. In Cumbria, schoolyard conkers were
permitted only if goggles were worn. But top prize goes to St Edmundsbury
Council in Suffolk. Fresh from banning hanging baskets, it banned Christmas
lights.

How its busy little box-tickers must eagerly await the Government's smoking ban,
unveiled earlier in the year.

The private sector had its morons too. WH Smith lost Pounds 135 million but
raised directors' pay by 77 per cent.

Shell and Sainsbury's produced woeful figures, although, in their case, someone
actually took the blame. Everyone wanted to be Tesco, which reported a whopping
record profit of Pounds 1.7 billion.

No one wanted to be the marketing team at Burberry, whose trademark check
pattern became the design of choice for Britain's feckless urban youth - or
chavs, as they have now been christened for some obscure reason.

There was much to cheer, of course, especially for fans of Arsenal, who won the
2003/2004 Premiership unbeaten. The Olympic Games actually happened, despite all
those doomsters forecasting failure (I was one of them).

Greece, buoyed by its Euro 2004 victory, laid on a triumphant spectacle,
epitomised by HMS Pinsent's victory in the coxless fours.

Heroes proper were out in their thousands for those impossibly stirring
anniversaries of D-Day and Arnhem. The Government, however, ruled out major
parades for the 60th anniversaries of VE and VJ Day in 2005, appalling veterans.

Rebellion did begin to stir, though, particularly in the shires. The
Government's hunting ban provoked bloody scenes in Parliament Square, an
invasion of the Commons and eggings of ministerial cars. A messy election
campaign is now assured.

The Commons, along with Buckingham Palace, was also a target for the
increasingly vocal Fathers 4 Justice movement. The Chamber had to be cleared
after one of its leaders landed a flour-filled condom on Mr Blair's suit.

There was no shortage of the weird and wonderful. A sheep with six years' growth
of fleece was discovered on a New Zealand mountain, christened Shrek, and then
shaved. Another Kiwi oddity was a poor budgie called Whipper, which disappeared
inside its own plumage suffering from something called 'feather duster
syndrome'.

The art world, still mourning the loss of Tracey Emin's tent in a kindly
warehouse blaze, found time to vote Marcel Duchamp's 1917 urinal the most
influential piece of modern art in history.

There was a spectacular royal wedding, although you had to go to Brunei to see
Crown Prince Billah's gold-plated wedding limo.

In Britain, the Royal Family had a relatively quiet year, peppered with the odd
appearance by Prince Harry in Lesotho, Argentina or the doorway of a Mayfair
nightclub where he tried to tell a paparazzo what he could do with his camera.

So, farewell, 2004. For all its pain, it certainly had its moments of great joy,
beauty and human endeavour.

May 2005 be happier but just as memorable.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ONES TO REMEMBER: CUMBRIA SCHOOLCHILDREN DON GOGGLES TO PLAY CONKERS;
GEORGE BUSH ON HIS ELECTION CAMPAIGN; A BRITISH SOLDIER IS HIT BY A PETROL BOMB
THROWN BY ANGRY IRAQI CIVILIANS; JEMIMA KHAN RELAXES WITH HUGH GRANT; ROBERT
KILROY-SILK COVERED IN SLURRY; KELLY HOLMES TAKES GOLD; SCANDAL QUEEN KIMBERLY
QUINN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 61 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 31, 2004, Friday

PAUL ROUTLEDGE: OLDE ROUTLEDGE'S ALMANACK 2005 - BLAIR'S RULE IS THRONE INTO
CHAOS

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3-Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1327 words


WEIRD. Scary. Writing this column well before deadline, as Olde Routledge's
Almanac for 2005, I predicted "a year of turmoil on planet Earth bringing death
and destruction in its wake".

That was a week ago. Frighteningly, that prophecy has already come about, with
the Asian earthquake and tidal wave claiming the lives of 100,000 people.

I also foretold the political weather will take a change for the worse. Our
rulers must hope that Routers is wrong on this one.

At first, things look better than they are because, on January 1, Tony Blair
takes over leadership of the G8 industrialised countries. He preens himself as
saviour of the world.

But in the first week of the year he is shamed into coming home early from his
sun-soaked holiday in Egypt - embarrassed by the generosity of the British
people towards the victims of the Asian tsunami, who also ask: "Where is our
Prime Minister?"

Blair returns to a nation dismayed by his casual attitude towards the greatest
natural disaster of modern times, which plays badly with voters. His world
economic summit at the palatial Gleneagles Hotel in Scotland is marred by
protests.

Iraqis go to the polls on January 30 amid terrible scenes of violence, and elect
a Shia-majority "parliament" whose sole freedom is to write a new constitution.
This is heralded as a great victory. Baghdad continues to burn.

Days later, George Dubya Bush formally begins his second term in the White
House. In his acceptance speech, Ole Cross Eyes frightens the rest of the world
with a defiant statement that America will go on just as before - only more so.
No country will be safe from the reach of his mighty military arm. The Prime
Minister infuriates the party faithful by saying that's fine by him.

On February 3, the date when Yasser Arafat took over the PLO in 1969, Israel
faces a major terrorist attack. Ariel Sharon uses suicide strikes as an excuse
to scupper peace talks with the Palestinians, and Blair's Middle East "summit"
in London, a few weeks later, ends in tears.

In March, Gordon Brown announces that he and his wife Sarah are to have another
baby. Friends of the Prime Minister - both of them - accuse the Chancellor of
building up public sympathy as part of a wicked plot to usurp Tony. And Charles
Kennedy's wife (also Sarah) gives birth to a son shortly afterwards. He is
called Ian, after Chazza's crofter father.

At Easter, the Blair family go into sulky retreat at the home of a very good
Sicilian friend of Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi.

They return home when Peter Mandelson tells Tony he must go to the polls on May
5, as Mars is then in conjunction with Uranus.

The nastiest election in living memory follows. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw
loses his seat to the BNP in Blackburn. Robert Kilroy-Silk of the United Kingdom
Independence Party (Provisional Wing) triumphs over Europhile Ken Clarke in
Nottinghamshire. Peter Hain is beaten by Plaid Cymru in South Wales, and a fat
man standing for the Monster Raving Bring-Back- Long-Lunches Party ousts Tory
Shadow Chancellor Ollie Letwin in Dorset.

An angry pensioner thrashes Work and Pensions Secretary Alan Johnson in Hull
West. That's not a result, just a news story about 89-year-old Arnold
Higginbotham getting very cross about his winter heating allowance.

Divisions in the Tory party over tax and Europe resurface and many progressive
Conservative supporters switch votes to the Liberal Democrats, giving Charlie
Kennedy 101 seats at Westminster. His big new group is known as the Dalmatians,
because they don't know how to change their spots.

However, polling day is also Ascension Day and Tony Blair duly re-ascends to his
Downing Street throne on May 6, his 52nd birthday. But his 160- strong
Parliamentary majority has been cut to 48, and the Prime Minister precipitates
chaos in the parliamentary Labour party by proposing a coalition with the
Lib-Dems.

Kennedy tells Tony he is not interested in serving in the Cabinet as Secretary
for Wales, so the power-sharing deal is off. But not before leaving a bitter
taste in the mouth of Labour MPs, who begin revolting on a wide range of issues
from pensions to Britain's role in Iraq.

Michael Howard survives a secret plot to undermine him, hatched in the Carlton
Club, the Tories' favourite watering-hole. Rebel Conservatives, led by
Churchill's grandson Nicholas Soames, planned to bring back Maggie Thatcher but
the Westminster coroner refuses to grant an exhumation certificate.

To complete Tory sorrows, Boris Johnson, recently sacked as editor of the
Spectator, falls off his bike en route to a love tryst with Christine Hamilton
and breaks a fetlock. David Blunkett is appointed Deputy Prime Minister and John
Prescott is removed to the House of Lords in a straitjacket. He is mollified by
being made New Labour's first hereditary peer and takes the title of Viscount
Thumper.

After the most ToryTony Queen's Speech for years, Gordon Brown comes under
strong pressure to oust Blair but dithers and loses his best opportunity.
Charles Clarke, the reappointed Home Secretary, opens his leadership campaign as
the "Anybody But Brown" candidate. Friends advise him to shave, or at least have
a very good facewash.

Britain takes over presidency of the European Union on July 1, and the Prime
Minister launches a campaign to persuade Britons to back the new European
constitution in a referendum set for early 2006. He then disappears to a variety
of exotic locations in the south of France, Italy and the West Indies as a guest
of dodgy billionaires, and the public forgets about the idea.

In the autumn conference season, Blair twice upstages the Tories. First, he
invites the Turkish prime minister to Labour's bash in Brighton. Then, as talks
on Turkey's admission to the EU get under way, he jets off to Ankara while the
Conservatives are still looking for a decent pub in Blackpool. A poll back home
records an 80 per cent "no" to Europe's new Muslim dimension, and the
government's business managers fight in vain to prevent a further voter backlash
in Tony's "back me" referendum.

Publicly, Gordon Brown and Charles Clarke urge the people to support Blair,
while privately encouraging a "no" result for their own dark designs. They see
rejection of the constitution as an open sesame to their leadership ambitions.
Europe minister Denis MacShane is admitted to a clinic for distressed
Europhiles. Alan Milburn resigns to spend more time with his family for the
second time. The family stage a runner.

At the second Queen's Speech of the year, in late November, Her Majesty throws a
wobbly and refuses to read out the fatuous, authoritarian agenda presented to
her by the Keeper of the New Labour Holy Grail. "Up with this we shall not put!"
she declares. She announces her abdication and Parliament descends into chaos.

At this point, Gerry Adams calmly announces Sinn Fein's five MPs will take their
seats at Westminster, this week being the centenary of his party's foundation.

The new monarch, King Charles III, dissolves parliament and calls fresh
elections that will not take place until May 2008. Meanwhile, he is to rule with
the support of the Army and the Archbishop of Canterbury.

In Brussels, Peter Mandelson declares himself "Queen across the water" but no
one rallies to his standard. In fact, the great British public is hugely
relieved. The King's gift of a two-week Christmas holiday is very popular. A
snap opinion poll shows a majority for a return to an absolute monarchy, and the
nation learns how to live without politicians. We are surprised how easy it is.

In countries around the Indian Ocean, the victims of the Boxing Day disaster go
about the business of rebuilding their lives, forgotten by world leaders who
promised so much. More is still spent on the military occupation of Iraq than on
the relief of world poverty.

Another normal year. The angels weep.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 30, 2004, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 564 words


Izzard joins the British invasion of Springfield

In a move that underlines Britain's status as the first nation of comedy, Eddie
Izzard is about to become the latest home-grown star to appear on The Simpsons.

The cross-dressing comedian, right, has been lined up for a cameo role in the
hit show after introducing himself to its creator, Matt Groening, at last week's
British Comedy Awards. He will join a select group of Brits to appear in the
fictional town of Springfield, including Tony Blair and Ricky Gervais.

Although Izzard hasn't yet signed a contract - discussions are still at an early
stage - Groening says he's merely waiting for an opportune moment to write him
into a script.

"The guy's a genius," he tells me. "There's no saying who we'll get him to play,
but we often don't get people to play themselves. For, instance when Simon
Cowell came on, he played a boss of a nursery school who is cruel when he
auditions kids for places. So as soon as the right part comes along, we'll get
Eddie in."

Izzard's career has blossomed in the US, where he is now one of the most
prominent British performers. Last year, he starred in A Day in the Death of Joe
Egg on Broadway and - as this column revealed - landed a part in the Hollywood
blockbuster Oceans Twelve.

A minor explosion was heard in the vicinity of John Prescott's ministerial
Jaguar yesterday, after the Deputy Prime Minister was shown a report in The Sun
claiming that he is to be replaced by David Blunkett and shunted off to the
House of Lords after the next election.

"John turned the air blue, and I mean blue," says a close ally. "He's confident
the story is crap - he was elected as deputy leader and can't be budged so
easily - but is absolutely furious that someone is briefing against him,
especially since The Sun is the paper favoured by Number 10."

IT'S NOT all bad news for the Gurkhas, the Nepalese soldiers who were recently
forced to take the MoD to court over their pension rights. Claudia Schiffer,
above, and her husband, the film director Matthew Vaughn, have offered jobs to
five former members of the regiment.

According to reports in Schiffer's native Germany - confirmed by her spokesman
yesterday - they have been looking after security at the couple's Suffolk home.

"I don't think this is a case of Gurkhas going to desperate lengths to make
money," reckons the MoD. "It's common for ex-service personnel to go into
security, and if they are getting paid, then it's a cracking use of their time."

The sang froid of a true gent

Say what you like about the English aristocracy, they know how to keep their
cool in a crisis.

The Earl of Bradford - restaurateur and prominent UKIP supporter - was staying
with his family on Huvafen Fushi in the Maldives when the tsunami disaster
struck.

Instead of rushing home in a panic, Bradford completed his winter break before
returning to Weston Park, the Shropshire family pile, yesterday morning.

"We treated it so casually at the time. It's only now sinking in how lucky we
were," he tells me. "The water level reached the decking on the balcony of our
room; any higher and we'd have been in real trouble.

"A German woman next door ended-up with a shark in her swimming pool. She used
to swim naked in the morning, and I'm not sure what I found more scary."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               4 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 29, 2004

WHAT'S YOUR score for 2004?

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER WINN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 22; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2508 words



THIS YEAR has been such a rollercoaster of events that it would seem
unforgettable, it's so fresh in our minds. But howaccurate IS your memory of the
past 12 months? Here CHRISTOPHER WINN puts 100 questions to test your wits.
Answers bottom right.

1 Who threatened 'Barbie' in 2004?

a) Ken b) Bratz c) John Prescott

2 Which famous Belgian was 75 on January 10, 2004?

a) Hercule Poirot b) Tintin c) Former PM Jean-Luc Dehaene 3 What event made
David Blunkett want to 'open a bottle' in January?

a) David Seaman's retirement b) Ken Livingstone's reinstatement in the Labour
Party c) Harold Shipman's suicide in prison 4 What item of clothing was banned
in French schools?

a) Burberry b) The beret c) The headscarf

5 What is the name of Cunard's new flagship, launched in January?

a) Queen Mary 2 b) Queen Victoria c) Queen Cherie 6 Which British show won a
Golden Globe for Best TV Comedy?

a) Today In Parliament b) The Office c) EastEnders 7 What was downgraded from
class B to class C, putting it on a par with Valium?

a) Paracetamol b) Vindaloo c) Cannabis

8 Which presenter lost a job at the BBC for criticising Arab governments?

a) Robert Kilroy-Silk b) Natasha Kaplinsky c) Jeremy Paxman 9 MP Nick Brown
changed sides at the last moment to rescue Tony Blair in the Commons vote on
which issue?

a) Foundation hospitals b) MPs' pensions c) Top-up fees 10 Which inquiry
resulted in the resignations of Andrew Gilligan, Gavyn Davies and Greg Dyke?

a) Hutton inquiry b) Butler inquiry c) Budd inquiry 11 Whom did John Magnier
fight with over Rock of Gibraltar?

a) Jose Maria Aznar b) Amir Khan c) Sir Alex Ferguson 12 Who traumatised America
by revealing a breast at the Super Bowl?

a) Janet Jackson b) Janet Street Porter c) Hillary Clinton 13 Who appeared in a
forged photograph with John Kerry?

a) Simon Cowell b) Jane Fonda c) Colonel Gaddafi 14 What has become known as
Britain's Guantanamo Bay?

a) Bournemouth b) Belmarsh Prison c) Wormwood Scrubs 15 What was the source of
Coca-Cola's Dasani bottled water?

a) The Malvern Hills b) The River Tees at Middlesbrough c) The mains supply at
Sidcup

16 According to Clare Short, on whom does Britain routinely spy?

a) Daily Mail readers b) Belgium c) UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan 17 What
became the first film in history to win the Oscar for every category in which it
was nominated, with a total of 11?

a) The Lord Of The Rings: The Return Of The King b) Fahrenheit 9/11 c) Bridget
Jones,The Edge Of Reason

18 Who was appointed as what Charlie Falconer intended to be the last Lord
Chancellor?

a) Charlie Falconer b) Charlie Whelan c) Stephen Twigg 19 The government of
which European country was toppled by a series of Al Qaeda train bombings?

a) Greece b) Spain c) Luxembourg

20 Which politician was caught up in 'Betsygate'?

a) Patricia Hewitt b) Jacques Chirac c) Iain Duncan Smith 21 Who ordered
83-year-old council tax protester Elizabeth Winkfield, to face up to her
responsibilities?

a) John Prescott b) David Blunkett c) North Wales Chief Constable Richard
Brunstrom

22 Princess Juliana, the original 'bicycling monarch', died in March.

Of which country was she monarch?

a) Norway b) Greece c) The Netherlands

23 Who took over Safeway?

a) Morrisons b) Marks & Spencer c) Budgens

24 With whom did Rebecca Loos claim to have had an affair?

a) Sven Goran Eriksson b) David Beckham c) David Blunkett 25 Which country
became the

first in Europe to ban smoking in pubs, clubs and restaurants?

a) France b) Finland c) Ireland

26 'He shows great originality which must be curbed at all costs.' Of which
great actor and raconteur, who died in March, was this said by his headmaster?

a) Alan Bates b) Bob Monkhouse c) Peter Ustinov 27 Who said 'Multiculturalism
has had its day. We should kill it off'?

a) The Archbishop of Canterbury b) Chairman of the Commission for Racial
EqualityTrevor Phillips c) Norman Tebbit

28 Who sold his house in Kensington Palace Gardens to Lakshmi Mittal for Pounds
70 million, making it, at the time, the most expensive house in the world?

a) John Prescott b) Bernie Ecclestone c) Roman Abramovich 29 Where did the
Blairs spend their Easter holidays?

a) Sedgefield b) Glasgow c) Bermuda

30 Daniel Radcliffe is said to have replaced Prince Harry as Britain's richest
teenager. How has he made his millions?

a) By winning I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here.

b) By playing Harry Potter on screen c) By marrying Britney Spears 31 Which
topical island is inhabited by descendants of the mutineers from the Bounty?

a) Pitcairn b) Mauritius c) Anglesey

32 Mordechai Vanunu was released in April after 18 years in jail for revealing
the nuclear secrets of which nation?

a) India b) France c) Israel

33 How many new countries were admitted to the EU on May 1?

a) 10 b) 15 c) 3

34 Who exclaimed 'Gadzooks!' when he saw a portrait of himself naked, with a
bluebottle on his shoulder, painted by Stuart Pearson Wright?

a) Peter Andre b) The Duke of Edinburgh c) Damien Hirst 35 Where did Gordon
Brown and John Prescott meet in May, allegedly to discuss the succession to Tony
Blair as Labour leader?

a) Granita b) Barbados c) The car park of the Loch Fyne Oyster Bar 36 What did
Lord Hesketh put up for sale in May for Pounds 50 million?

a) Leeds United b) Easton Neston c) His title

37 Which footballer's wife won the right to a share of her ex-husband's future
earnings?

a) Ray Parlour's b) Adrian Mutu's c) Rio Ferdinand's 38 What was thrown at Tony
Blair in the chamber of the House of Commons by Fathers 4 Justice?

a) Purple flour b) The Mace c) Oliver Letwin

39 Who lost her tent and 'everyone I have ever slept with' in a fire at a modern
art warehouse?

a) Sharon Osbourne b) Tara Palmer-Tomkinson c) Tracey Emin 40 Who was Lynndie
England pictured with on the end of a lead?

a) Donald Rumsfeld b) A poodle c) An Iraqi prisoner 41 Which actress gave birth
to an Apple?

a) Gwyneth Paltrow b) Jordan c) Nicole Kidman

42 Who was the film The Motorcycle Diaries about?

a) Steve Norris b) Che Guevara c) Chris Bryant

43 Chapple, Murray, Greene and Scanlon all died this year. What were they?

a) Estate agents b) Leaders of the Conservative Party since 1997 c) Trade union
leaders

44 Who claimed that smoking was one of the few pleasures available to the poor?

a) Peter Hain b) Health Secretary John Reid c) Princess Michael 45 Which former
U.S. President died this year?

a) Ronald Reagan b) Richard Nixon c) Gerald Ford 46 Which party came third in
the European elections in June?

a) Liberal Democrats b) United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) c) British
National Party (BNP)

47 What is the name of the Iraqi Prime Minister?

a) Iyad Allawi b) Paul Bremer c) Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 48 Who defeated Tim
Henman in the quarterfinals at Wimbledon?

a) Lleyton Hewitt b) Buster Mottram c) Mario Ancic 49 Which newly opened public
memorial designed for children to play in closed after children started to play
in it?

a) The Princess Diana Memorial Fountain b) The Dome c) The Scottish Parliament
building

50 Who won the Open golf championship of 2004?

a) Tiger Woods b) Todd Hamilton c) Ernie Els

51 What is Google?

a) A television game show b) An alcoholic beverage c) An internet search engine

53 Steve Moxon was sacked for exposing the immigration scandal that led to the
resignation of whom?

a) Stephen Byers b) Anji Hunter c) Beverley Hughes 54 Whom did British boxer
Danny Williams defeat in Louisville, Kentucky, in July?

a) Evander Holyfield b) Mike Tyson c) Max Schmeling 55 The Blairs spent their
summer holidays at three luxury villas belonging to Prince Girolamo Strozzi,
Silvio Berlusconi and who else?

a) Bernie Ecclestone b) Bono c) Cliff Richard

56 Which country has given us the new EU president, Jose Manuel Barroso, and the
transsexual winner of Big Brother, Nadia Almada?

a) France b) Portugal c) Spain

57 In August, who was declared the most powerful woman in Britain?

a) Cherie Blair b) The Queen c) Victoria Beckham 58 What did Emma Bradbury of
Staffordshire find in her bananas when she brought them home from the
supermarket?

a) Shergar b) 400 huntsmen spiders c) Jamie Oliver 59 Mark Thatcher was arrested
for allegedly trying to facilitate a coup in which country?

a) Sudan b) Equatorial Guinea c) Wales

60 In which county is Boscastle, the village ravaged by flash floods in August?

a) Cornwall b) Kent c) Dumfries & Galloway

61 In which of the following events did Kelly Holmes NOT win a gold medal?

a) 5,000 metres b) 1500 metres c) 800 metres

62 Who said at the Republican Convention in New York: 'Ladies and gentlemen,
America is back'?

a) George Bush Snr b) Michael Moore c) Arnold Schwarzenegger 63 Who became the
first Western rock group allowed to release an album in Iran, largely because
the lead singer had Iranian ancestors?

a) REM b) The Ugly Rumours c) Queen

64 Who was described by Greg Dyke as 'a deranged, vindictive bastard'?

a) Gordon Brown b) Alastair Campbell c) Leslie Grantham 65 What does ASBO stand
for?

a) Antisocial body odour b) Antisocial behaviour order c) Age and sickness
benefit office

66 Who decided he'd had enough of his family and came back into the Cabinet
after only one year?

a) Peter Mandelson b) Robin Cook c) Alan Milburn 67 The son of which rock star
burst into the Commons chamber and disrupted the debate on the hunting ban?

a) Mick Jagger b) Phil Collins c) Bryan Ferry

68 A member of Fathers 4 Justice scaled Bucking-

ham Palace dressed as which super hero?

a) Batman b) Spiderman c) Peter Hain

69 Who holed the winning putt for Europe's Ryder Cup team at Oakland Hills
Country Club?

a) Lee Westwood b) Colin Montgomerie c) Darren Clarke 70 Which outspoken
football manager, who died in 2004, described himself thus: 'I wouldn't say I
was the best manager in the business, but I was in the top one'?

a) Bob Stokoe b) Les Dawson c) Brian Clough

71 Which popular DJ, whose favourite record was the Undertones' Teenage Kicks,
died this year?

John Peel b) Ray Moore c) Robin Ray

72 Which popular music act endorsed Tory values during the 2004 Conservative
Party conference?

a) Busted b) The Darkness c) The Sugababes

73 Who was barred from becoming a European Commissioner after he confessed to
holding conservative Catholic beliefs?

a) Peter Mandelson b) Jacques Barrot c) Rocco Buttiglione 74 Who was sent to
Liverpool to apologise?

a) Boris Johnson b) Wayne Rooney c) Cilia Black 75 What did Culture Secretary
Tessa Jowell call opposition to her Gambling Bill which called for
super-casinos?

a) Cynical b) Misguided c) Snobbery

76 Who was dropped from the cast of the musical The Producers just days before
its West End opening?

a) Roger Moore b) Richard Dreyfuss c) Peter Andre 77 How is London's Swiss Re
Tower (left), winner of the Stirling Prize for architecture, more commonly
known?

a) Canary Wharf b) The Gherkin c) The Cuckoo Clock 78 Which organisation allows
the practice of Satanism on its premises, provided the

blood of freshly decapitated animals is not drunk?

a) British National Party b) Royal Navy c) Channel 4 79 What distinction did
Crosby's Labour MP Claire Curtis-Thomas achieve in 2004?

a) Britain's youngest woman MP b) Britain's best-dressed MP c) Britain's
costliest MP

80 To whom is Teresa Heinz married?

a) Mr Bean b) Arnold Schwarzenegger c) John Kerry 81 What make of car is to
cease production at Browns Lane in Coventry after 50 years?

a) Rover b) Jaguar c) Daewoo

82 In October, Franco Zeffirelli directed TV coverage of which lavish ceremony?

a) The Oscars b) Proms In The Park c) The signing of the EU Constitution in Rome

83 Princess Alice, Duchess of Gloucester, was the oldest member of the Royal
Family. How old was she when she died in October this year?

a) 100 b) 102 c) 104

84 How much did Tony Blair allegedly pay for a house in Connaught Square,
London?

a) Pounds 1.5 million b) Pounds 2.5 million c) Pounds 3.5 million 85 The film
director gunned down in Amsterdam in November was descended from which famous
painter?

a) Van Gogh b) Vermeer c) Rembrandt

86 Where was gay preacher Gene Robinson appointed Bishop of?

a) Beverly Hills b) Brighton c) New Hampshire

87 What colour did the supporters of poisoned Ukrainian presidential candidate
Viktor Yushchenko sport?

a) Blue b) Green c) Orange

88 Which of these three did NOT win I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here?

a) Kerry McFadden b) Joe Pasquale c) Jordan

89 Who won the women's race in the New York marathon?

a) Kelly Holmes b) Paula Radcliffe c) Anna Kournikova 90 Where did Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat die in November?

a) Ramallah b) Paris c) Jerusalem

91 Who said 'For me it's not a question of whether we should intrude in family
life, but how and when'?

a) Vladimir Putin b) Michael Howard c) Margaret Hodge 92 Who replaced Colin
Powell as U.S.

Secretary of State?

a) Paul Wolfowitz b) Condoleezza Rice c) Leo McGarry 93 The rarely used
Parliament Act was invoked in November to force through legislation banning
what?

a) Smacking b) Hunting with dogs c) Smoking in public places 94 Which nanny with
a dark side came to the stage in December 2004?

a) Virginia Bottomley

b) Mary Poppins c) The Nanny State

95 Who denounced Prince Charles as 'out of time'?

a) Charles Clarke b) Prince Harry c) Camilla Parker Bowles 96 Which new organ of
the British State will refuse to swear allegiance to the Queen?

a) The Serious Organised Crime Agency b) The Lord Chancellor c) The BBC

97 The tallest bridge in the world, the Millau Viaduct in France, was opened in
December. Who designed it?

a) Cesar Pelli b) Lord Foster c) Jean Nouvel

98 Which comedian led the campaign against Section 10 of the Serious Organised
Crime and Police Bill which deals with inciting religious hatred?

a) Rory Bremner b) Ricky Gervais c) Rowan Atkinson 99 Who played the Ghost of
Christmas Future in the EastEnders Christmas special?

a) William Hague b) Charles Kennedy c) Paul Burrell 100 What item for sale on
eBay cost a royal aide his job?

a) A crown b) A corgi c) A Christmas pudding

ANSWERS

1 B. 2 B. 3 C. 4 C. 5 A. 6 B. 7 C. 8 A. 9 C.

10 A. 11 C. 12 A. 13 B. 14 B. 15 C. 16 C.

17 A. 18 A. 19 B. 20 C. 21 A. 22 C. 23 A.

24 B. 25 C. 26 C. 27 B. 28 B. 29 C. 30 B.

31 A. 32 C. 33 A. 34 B. 35 C. 36 B. 37 A.

38 A. 39 C. 40 C. 41 A. 42 B. 43 C.44 B.

45 A. 46 B. 47 A. 48 C. 49 A. 50 B. 51 C.

52 B. 53 C. 54 B. 55 C. 56 B. 57 A. 58 B.

59 B. 60 A. 61 A. 62 C. 63 C. 64 B. 65 B.

66 C. 67 C. 68 A. 69 B. 70 C. 71 A. 72 A.

73 C. 74 A. 75 C. 76 B. 77 B. 78 C. 79 C.

80 C. 81 B. 82 C. 83 B. 84 C. 85 A. 86 C.

87 C. 88 C. 89 B. 90 B. 91 C. 92 B. 93 B.

94 B. 95 A.96 A.97 B. 98 C. 99 B. 100 C.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: YES, ALL THESE CHARACTERS ARE INVOLVED IN OUR FUN 2004 QUIZ - BUT ARE
THEY ALSO AMONG THE CORRECT ANSWERS?

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               5 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 28, 2004

G2: Etcetera: Why I love the UK Theme

BYLINE: Emma Pomfret

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 309 words


I've been rumbled. Thanks to some City toff's Christmas bestseller, The Pocket
Book of Patriotism, and a Guardian leader, the nation has acknowledged Radio 4's
opening music, the UK Theme.

It's six golden minutes of escapist nostalgia. Every morning at 5.30am the Radio
4 day begins with a medley of Early One Morning, Rule Britannia, Danny Boy,
Greensleeves, Men of Harlech, Scotland the Brave - you get the idea. This is a
musical journey around the British Isles. I expect Dame Julie Andrews hums
along.

Fritz Spiegl, an Austrian-born composer who fled the Anschluss and ended up in
Liverpool, arranged the pick and mix of traditional British songs in 1973. Is it
patriotism gone mad? Is it a harmless celebration of folk tunes? Who cares!
Fritz's fantasia evokes jammy scones, bracing country walks and the safe cocoon
of my duvet. It has no time for leitmotifs of serious crime or hospital waiting
lists. Is that so bad?

Broadcast before the Shipping Forecast and Farming Today, the Theme inspires
national passions - among insomniacs. In one chatroom, Ian (new father and Terry
Pratchett fan) asks: "Where can I get a decent MP3 of the UK Theme? I'm
addicted." Sorry, Ian, I can't help you - and neither can JAF: "What must the
people of the world think of us when they hear this outdated tripe?"

I can't deny the Theme is a monocultural representation of Britain. The only
other thing that comes close to being so fabulously, madly un-PC is Disney's
It's a Small World attraction in Florida: bongo-playing dolls representing
Africa; dancing leprechauns for Ireland.

The UK Theme belongs to another era and there lies its magic. It is the Sir
Patrick Moore of radio; a real, live slice of Little Britain; a glorious, huge
lardy-cake of broadcasting lunacy. Which gives me an idea - have UKIP adopted an
election anthem?


LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 27, 2004, Monday

It's a fairly safe bet that the Lib Dems won't win the next election

BYLINE: By George Trefgarne

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 26

LENGTH: 945 words

There are many things that arise out of the spread-betting craze, not least the
enjoyable image of thousands of suburban men secretly logging on over Christmas
to bet on the Test match, or whether Posh and Becks will split up. But what I
like most about it is that all sorts of new markets are constantly being made.
And we can learn a great deal from markets.

For instance, they are hinting at an upheaval at the next election.
Sportingindex is currently offering a spread of 71-75 on the number of
parliamentary seats the Liberal Democrats will win (they won 52 last time). So,
if you think they will get more than 75, you can buy, at say a pound a point;
and for every seat they gain above 75, you will win a pound. One punter is so
taken with Lib Dem prospects that, I am told, he has just bought at pounds 3,000
a point. That was one of the biggest bets Sportingindex took last week.

For real political anoraks, the website of choice is politicalbetting.com. Given
that its users put their money where their mouth is, I recommend logging on
every now and then. For we have, for the first time, a continuous live market in
electoral predictions, a sort of political stock market, or FTSE 100 of public
opinion, passing instant judgment on the basis of thousands of different bets.
And all the talk in the political market is: how well will the

Lib Dems do? Could they cause a hung Parliament, or even a Tory victory?

One piece that caused considerable comment among the internet bloggers last week
was written on these pages by my colleague Stephen Robinson, who said he would
give up voting Tory and instead vote Lib Dem, as only they opposed ID cards. How
many feel the same way, asked the bloggers? And have you noticed how Mr and Mrs
Charles Kennedy's first baby is due in April, just before the likely date of the
next election? Very crafty.

Like millions of others, the followers of politicalbetting.com are deeply
depressed at the surprising uselessness of Michael Howard's Tories. Prices
reflect this malaise. Last summer, Sportingindex was offering a spread of
235-240 on the number of seats the Tories could gain at the next election (they
won 166 in 2001). Now the spread has collapsed to just 198-206.

However, my guess is that Labour's lead is wobbly, like a man on stilts. The
polls show there is a widespread feeling that Labour ministers - not just Tony
Blair - are not to be trusted; that the war is a fiasco; that crime is rising;
immigration is out of control; and that public services are chaotic and bad
value for money. History also tells us that governments start to fall apart when
they lose control of the public finances. Last month, Gordon Brown borrowed
pounds 9.4 billion, more than any other chancellor on record. The public are not
stupid and sense there is a serious deficit: a recent poll by Populus found that
67 per cent believe Labour will put up taxes after the election.

If you think Labour is pretty awful and the Tories lack spine, you may be left
with no choice but to vote Liberal Democrat. Of course, nobody expects them to
form a government, and their bizarre policy platform shows worrying signs of
multiple personality disorder. They are in favour of 50 per cent income tax for
higher earners; joining the euro; congestion charging in London but not in
Edinburgh; and as recently as 2002 half the front bench actually voted in favour
of ID cards. But they do have the advantage of being neither Labour nor Tories.

Looking at a primitive average of all the opinion polls, Labour is on course for
another landslide. About 37 per cent of people say they will vote Labour at the
next election, compared with 42 per cent in 2001. Assuming a uniform swing, this
would give Tony Blair 390 seats and a majority of 134. On this analysis, the
Tories' share of the vote will be almost unchanged, and they would win only four
more seats. But I think such a simplistic approach is potentially very
misleading. In 2001, Lib Dem voters conspired with Labour to keep the Tories out
of power. For instance, in Shrewsbury and Atcham, they voted Labour and the
Tories lost the seat. But, this time around, the Lib Dems could easily "reverse
tactical vote" in order to punish Labour.

The expert on this is the political anorak-in-chief: a chap called John Curtice
of Strathclyde University. In a recent study, he assumed that there was a nine
per cent swing from Labour to the Lib Dems, and the results are explosive,
because in many seats it is the Tories who are currently second place to Labour.
In the Curtice scenario, the Tories actually win 71 seats off Labour without so
much as a single extra vote. This would lead to a hung Parliament, with Labour
two seats short of an overall majority at 328, the Tories at 224 and the Lib
Dems at 77. Some Tories would also lose their seats, including David Davis and
Oliver Letwin.

I suspect the election will not be as simple as this. Reverse tactical voting is
suspiciously convenient for some Tories. There could also be many local
oddities, helped no doubt by Labour's recent decision to ignore the national
media and abandon its battle bus. UKIP could have a few isolated successes; and
if, as expected, the Tories at last promise tax cuts, this should firm up their
support. And Labour's immigration policy is still, to quote David Blunkett, "no
upper limit", which leaves the Government vulnerable on the issue about which
the electorate feels most cross. Even so, if the Lib Dem spread drops to, say,
65-70, my advice would be to buy. Apart from anything else, it is an
entertaining way of insuring against any of their eccentric policies actually
being introduced.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 27, 2004, Monday

REVIEW OF THE YEAR 2004: STATISTICS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 331 words


pounds 57bn

The pension gap - between how much people are saving and how much they need to
save to ensure a comfortable retirement

110%

Turnout in some voting precincts of Ukraine in elections for the presidency

70,000

People killed in Darfur, Sudan

59,054,087

Votes cast for George Bush's re-election

190,000

British citizens who left the country. 105,000 returned - a net outflow of
85,000 people.

1,000,000,000

Children at risk from war, poverty and hunger

7,235,733

Digits in the largest prime number yet discovered

pounds 119,000

MPs' average staff costs and expenses on top of their salaries of pounds 57,485

150-1

Initial odds of Greece winning Euro 2004

14.4m

Letters lost by Royal Mail every year

96%

A-level pass rate

0

Number of WMDs found in Iraq

1.73

Average number of births per British woman - the highest for 20 years

1.7

Seconds: length of exposure of Janet Jackson's breast during the Superbowl

65%

Digital music players sold that are Apple iPods

0

Number of memorial services for servicemen attended by George Bush

8.5m

Number of adults in Britain who are clinically obese

450.83m

Population of EU, following enlargement

33

Expletives in Eamon's No1 single "I Don't Want You Back"

75

Percentage of EU credit card debt owed by Britons

49

The number at which Arsenal's record unbeaten run ended, to Manchester United

3

Maximum number of terms that Tony Blair will serve as Prime Minister, announced
when he underwent heart surgery

360

Number of people killed in Beslan school siege

852

Total pages of the EU constitution (the US constitution of 1787 has 4,600 words)

30

Number of medals won by Great Britain at Olympics

11

UKIP MEPs returned in European election (now 10, after Robert Kilroy- Silk's
resignation)

55

Hours: duration of Britney Spears' first marriage of

the year, to Jason Allen Alexander

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 27, 2004, Monday

REVIEW OF THE YEAR 2004: BRITAIN: TRENDS: CHAVS, BIGOTS, SEX ON TV... AND
FATHERS IN NEED

BYLINE: JOHN WALSH

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 550 words


THE MOST significant trend of 2004 was disparaging young working- class people,
an historical activity given a new spurt by the word "chav". It first appeared
on snobbish websites; after The Independent discovered the word, hectares of
newsprint went into its meaning and etymology, while a dozen joke books explored
its behavioural features.

As noun or adjective, it denotes a functionally illiterate modern teenager who
wears Burberry baseball caps, gold jewellery and Reebok trainers while hanging
out in the less trendy malls of Croydon, Cardiff, Salford, Yeovil and similar
areas of urban grot. It was applied to the year's pop phenomenon Mike (The
Streets) Skinner, whose rhythmic maunderings about kebabs, dole cash and being
dumped attracted praise from literary folk who should have known better; also to
Goldie Lookin' Chain, a rap collective from Newport whose most famous song is
called "Your Mother's Got a Penis"; and the footballer Wayne Rooney.

A new strain of casual bigotry also reared its ugly head in 2004. Ron Atkinson
was dropped by ITV for calling Chelsea's Marcel Desailly a "fucking lazy thick
nigger". In New York, Princess Michael of Kent told some raucous black diners to
"go back to the colonies". At the local elections in June, the right-wing,
xenophobic UK Independence Party was twice as popular as it was in 1999.

An alarming trend of sexual coarseness was in the air, on the web and under the
table. A pseudonymous blogger called "Belle du Jour" tantalised London media
types with her lurid tales of modern hooker-dom. The Erotic Review, a charming
monthly compendium of posh orgasmic fantasies, was sold to the publishers of
Penthouse. The staff, headed by the Independent on Sunday columnist Rowan
Pelling, instantly resigned. A down-market version of the Review, entitled
Scarlet ("The new magazine for women who get it"), was published in November.
Michael Winterbottom's film 9 Songs was the first British film to feature a
couple having real-life, non-acting sex. Big Brother was won by a transsexual
called Nadia, and featured the first-ever on-screen intercourse.

Distrust of sentiment was a noticeable public mood. The outpouring of grief in
Liverpool over the death of Ken Bigley in Baghdad was followed by a debate over
Scouse mawkishness, while the stream of the Princess Diana Memorial Fountain was
soon filled with used nappies and dirty feet.

Everybody bought Lynne Truss's study of punctuation, Eats, Shoots and Leaves.
And the nation went crackers about technology, especially the storing of songs
on iPod, mini-iPod or clip-on MP3. In the wake of the film Troy, self-improvers
delved into classical literature. Waterstones reported an 800 per cent rise in
sales of Homer's Iliad.

Most emotional trends of the year concerned troubled paternity. Fathers 4
Justice staged publicity coups in the heart of the establishment - flour bombs
in the Commons, Batman on the Buckingham Palace balcony - and impressed as many
people as they enraged. Sir John Mortimer learnt he'd fathered a child with
Wendy Craig 40 years ago. And the year ended with the Home Secretary going to
court to establish the paternity of his ex-mistress's baby - and being offered
helpful advice by the law-breaking fathers in their superhero Lycra.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 27, 2004, Monday

REVIEW OF THE YEAR 2004: POLITICS: THE TORIES: HOWARD MAY BE USEFUL - TO DO THE
WASHING UP

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 782 words


WHEN MICHAEL Howard took over as Tory leader 13 months ago, there was a sense of
renewal and euphoria in the media and on the Tory backbenches. Tony Blair was
awaiting the outcome of the Hutton Report and battling with his own side to win
the Commons vote on university tuition fees. The year began with the possibility
that, on both these issues, the Prime Minister might suffer fatal blows.

Throughout December and January Mr Howard was on sparkling form, beating Mr
Blair, convincingly, in nearly every parliamentary exchange. Tory MPs had a
spring in their step. Internal divisions that had bedevilled the party for years
evaporated. Every commentator wrote about the sense of purpose, professionalism
and unity on display. Mr Howard, who had come bottom of the leadership poll in
1997, was hailed as the comeback kid of British politics. He had successfully
lived down the 1997 "something of the night" criticisms by Ann Widdecombe, and
political journalists were waxing lyrically about new Tory dawns. Initially, Mr
Howard seemed determined to throw off his previous dark image and set out, in a
series of speeches and advertisements, a personal credo based on reducing the
size of the state.

But just before Hutton reported, Mr Howard got too cocky and paid a terrible
price. He assumed, as we all did, that based on the public evidence at the
Hutton inquiry, the report would be severely critical of the Government. He was
left floundering when the final text exonerated Mr Blair. Although the report
was universally dismissed as a whitewash, its handling by Mr Howard left him
open to the charge of opportunism.

This charge began to stick when, in the same week, the Government narrowly won
the vote on tuition fees. It was reinforced some months later, when he tried to
suggest that if he had known, on the eve of the Iraq war in March 2003, that
there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, he would have voted with the
Labour rebels, but at the same time would still have supported the decision to
go to war.

The summer was dominated by a huge advance in the European elections by the UK
Independence Party. Although the Tories responded with calls for a referendum on
the European constitution, its fox was shot when Mr Blair took up the idea. Mr
Howard made capital out of Mr Blair's embarrassment but the issue was
neutralised.

UKIP's temporary popularity panicked Mr Howard into bringing back John Redwood
to the Tory front line. Even this did not stop a humiliating fourth-place
position in the Hartlepool by-election, on the eve of the Tory conference. The
Liberal Democrats remain the real threat, having pushed the Tories into third
place in two other constituencies.

Other Tory ideas were stolen throughout 2004 by Labour, and Mr Howard expressed
his frustration that policy initiatives, such as those on cutting government
waste and allowing home-owners the right to defend themselves against burglars,
were immediately taken up by Mr Blair. It seemed that if the public wanted Tory
policies, they could get them from a Labour government.

As the general election approaches, the party is still trying to reconcile its
promise to maintain Labour spending levels on health and education with a
general promise to lower taxation. At the autumn party conference, much was made
by Oliver Letwin of his promise "not to make promises". But in recent weeks,
pressure from backbench Tories has forced him into a commitment to reduce taxes.
Labour will seek to portray this as lacking credibility. Only recently, Mr
Letwin was berating Gordon Brown for increasing the "black hole" in the public
finances.

Expectations that Mr Howard would transform the party's electoral prospects were
probably overdone. Mr Howard has energised his supporters and provided competent
leadership. The internecine warfare that characterised the Hague and IDS years
is over. Battles over Clause 28 and gay rights no longer consume the party. But
the sad truth is that, in recent months, Mr Howard's tone has increasingly been
reminding voters of the old "Prison works" Howard of a decade ago.

The polls remain where they were a year ago. In a three-party race, it is
possible for the Tories to gain up to 50 seats, if enough Labour voters in
marginal seats transfer to the Liberal Democrats. But that will still leave the
Tories with fewer seats than Michael Foot's tally in the 1983 election.

According to one senior Conservative MP, Mr Howard's greatest service to the
party is yet to come: to stay behind after another defeat "to do the washing up"
and ensure that in the next parliament, the party unites behind one of the new
generation of Tory MPs.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 26, 2004, Sunday

QUIZ OF THE YEAR 2004;
 RECKON YOU KNOW YOUR TROY FROM YOUR TOP-UP FEES, YOUR RUMSFELD FROM

BYLINE: SIMON O'HAGAN

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES

LENGTH: 2391 words


1A global brand tries this out as an alternative to its usual logo. Which brand?

2Ball girls report for duty at a tennis tournament in Spain. How do they cause
controversy?

3Two sisters hit the campaign trail. On whose behalf?

4A German warship, sunk during the Second World War, is raised from the deep.
Which ship?

5Bob Dylan comes to Britain to receive an honorary degree. From which
university?

6A famous name becomes the face of Lancome. Who is she?

7A historic bridge reopens. Where?

8This woman causes wild celebrations in Mexico. Why?

9Brian Lara kisses the pitch in Antigua. Why the celebration?

10Who's waiting?

AT

HOME...

1Which member of the Cabinet helped save an injured kayaker from drowning in a
river in north Wales?

2Among the stunts pulled off by Fathers4Justice was the hurling of a purple
flour bomb at Tony Blair in the House of Commons. Why was the colour purple
chosen?

3Who agreed to be a patron of the UK Independence Party but said that this did
not necessarily mean that she would be voting for it?

4Who beat, among others, Trevor McDonald and Ms Dynamite in a poll to find the
greatest ever black Briton?

5The most recent of the I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here series was won by
Joe Pasquale. But who won the series that ended in February?

6Which historic city and major tourist attraction was shown to have the most
polluted air in Britain?

7Which property tycoon had a 10-year sentence for manslaughter overturned?

8What was The Heroes Return scheme?

9Which fashion label became so synonymous with "hooliwear" that people wearing
it were barred from entering some bars?

10What supposedly went on at the Loch Fyne Oyster Bar near Inverary in Argyll
one day in May?

...AND ABROAD

1Jailed for five months, which leading American invoked the name of Nelson
Mandela in saying that "many good people have gone to prison"?

2Which prime minister was re-elected for a fourth term?

3Which country's health minister told his compatriots to stop whingeing about
the English?

4Which 1960s pop star had his flight grounded in the US and was then deported
back to Britain?

5Which Western rock group became the first to be allowed to release an album in
Iran?

6During an overseas visit the Queen resisted calls for her to apologise for
what?

7Who enraged the Green lobby by building a James Bond-style underground harbour
at his villa in Sardinia?

8British Airways got into trouble for flying a jet 1,450 miles to pick up dinner
for Tony Blair. Which country was he visiting?

9Which European country became the second after Ireland to ban smoking in bars
and restaurants?

10A French court gave one of Africa's leading musicians a 30-month prison
sentence, most of it suspended, for people-smuggling. Which musician?

IN THE MONEY

1Oprah Winfrey stunned her studio audience by giving them each a present - worth
$ 28,000 - to mark the 19th season of her show on US television. What was it?

2Which TV personality sold his belongings at a stall at London's Camden Lock
market?

3According to a survey, how much, on average, do backbench MPs claim on expenses
per year?

4Who made pounds 11m from an auction of old restaurant fittings?

5Which Hollywood star's mother won $ 2.4m from a slot machine in Atlantic City?

6Who made her first appearance on the after-dinner circuit in America, earning
about pounds 30,000 for a 40-minute speech to insurance brokers in West
Virginia?

7Who said that he would be leaving his fortune - currently valued at pounds 195m
- to his 10 godchildren?

8A painting called "Garcon a la Pipe" was sold for a record $ 104m. Who was it
by?

9Which band's debut album earned them sales of more than pounds 2m, as well as
the Mercury Music Prize?

10Who was awarded pounds 150,000 in damages after he sued The Daily Telegraph'?

NUMBERS GAME

1According to a poll, what percentage of Americans can identify London on a map
of Great Britain?

2Who had all four of his novels on the New York Times bestseller list in the
same week?

3Which Hollywood star spent two and a half hours signing autographs outside the
London premiere of his new film?

4How many of the 659 MPs failed to turn up for a debate about truancy in
schools?

5Which glossy magazine's renowned social column came to an end after 60 years?

6Britain was reported to have adopted US definitions for a billion and a
trillion. So - how much is a billion? And how much is a trillion?

7Which actor revealed that he owned 4,000 hats, including five stetsons given to
him by Ronald Reagan?

8Which English singer-songwriter had his first hit 30 years after his death?

9How many hours did police trainee Clare Southern stay awake for to win the
Channel 4 series Shattered?

10What weighs 150,000 tonnes, is as high as a 23-storey building, and has, among
other things, 24 massage parlours and a library with 8,000 books?

LIFE &

LOVE

1Who returned to the Cabinet, having resigned 15 months earlier in order to
"spend more time with his family"?

2"Wealthy married men had better start being very very nice to their wives." A
divorce lawyer's words after which footballer had been ordered to share his
future earnings with his wife?

3Which fellow-actress did Lauren Bacall dismiss as "a beginner", saying "she
can't be a legend - you have to be older"?

4At the British Press Awards, which columnist and broadcaster punched which then
newspaper editor?

5Which 1960s pop star, on holiday in New Orleans, was shot while chasing a gang
who had mugged his girlfriend?

6After what fruit did Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin name their baby?

7Jerry Hall announced that her 20-year-old daughter was "so in love" with which
Sixties icon's son?

8Which writer, about to marry for a third time, said: "I'm getting into Zsa Zsa
Gabor territory"?

9A celebrated, 57-year-old TV screenwriter adopted a baby boy, describing him as
a "dream come true". Who is she?

10"Your devoted old bag". Who was revealed to write love letters that refer to
herself in this way?

ARTS, BOOKS & SHOWBIZ

1Which former DJ put on a West End musical that ran for just one night? Who was
the subject of the musical?

2The centenary of Bloomsday put James Joyce's Ulysses in the spotlight. But
which leading novelist and compatriot of Joyce described the book as
"undeserving of reverence"?

3David Hare had a play on at the National Theatre about rail privatisation and
another about the build-up to the war in Iraq. What were they called?

4Name the authors of these memoirs: Shooting History; The Smoking Diaries; So
Me; My Trade

5Tom Hanks starred in a Coen Brothers update of a classic Ealing comedy. What
was it?

6Where were ticket prices dropped from pounds 175 to pounds 10?

7Which fashion designer was accorded the honour of an exhibition at the V&A?

8Which film became the first in Oscar history to triumph in every category in
which it had been nominated, winning 11 awards in all?

9Same play, different productions. One starred Toby Stephens in the title role,
another Ben Whishaw, a third Michael Maloney. Which play?

10Which comedian showed his more serious side in a novel called The Secret
Purposes?

WHO

SAID...?

1When you have teenagers you can listen to a lot of the same stuff as them -
Coldplay, Foo Fighters, or whatever

2 What's wrong with everyone nowadays? What is it that makes everyone seem to
think they are qualified to do things far beyond their technical capabilities?

3I felt like Police Chief Brody in Jaws, slapped around the face by the mother
of the little kid killed by the shark

4I am sure some people think I have not got the brains to be that clever, but I
do have the brains

5When Andrew Gilligan calls you to commiserate about the press vilification
you're experiencing, you know you're in big trouble

6I was protecting the Iraqi people from the Kuwaiti dogs. They were trying to
raise the price of oil and turn Iraqi women into ten-dinar prostitutes

7People have done worse things than play Cliff Richard records, although I
suppose some might disagree

8To Ronnie - Well done, good and faithful servant

9Don't call me, I'll call you

10I earned capital in the political campaign and I intend to spend it

QUESTIONS OF SPORT

1Which Premiership club won a trophy for the first time in its 128-year history?

2The final of Euro 2004 was a repeat of the opening match. Who played and what
were the scores?

3Which country won the right to stage the 2010 World Cup?

4Great Britain won nine gold medals at the Athens Olympic Games. How many came
in events in which participants do not sit down?

5Who became the first man since Paavo Nurmi in 1924 to win Olympic gold medals
in both the 1,500 metres and the 5,000 metres?

6Which country's was the last national anthem played at the Olympic Games?

7Who became only the fourth batsman in cricket history to score a century while
making his Test debut at Lord's?

8The Live Strong' campaign - symbolised by a yellow wristband that became a
sought-after fashion item - was launched by which sportsman?

9Fabrice Santoro and Arnaud Clement played the longest tennis match on record in
the first round of the French Open. How long did it last?

10Which sports star lost a deal with Quaker Oats, the porridge brand with the
slogan, "It helps you go the distance"?

IN THE SPOTLIGHT

How did the following hit the headlines?

1Simon Mann

2Malcolm Glazer

3Samantha Marson

4Shaun Wallace

5The Swift Boat Veterans for Truth

6Joyti De-Laurey

7Rocco Buttiglione

8Stephen Gough

9Alison Lapper

10Craig Murray

IN MEMORIAM

Of those who died this year, who ...

1Was a Hollywood actress who always took baths rather than showers?

2Thought that Teenage Kicks were hard to beat?

3Was a legendary raconteur of fabled ancestry who once kept a Wimbledon crowd
entertained during a rain break?

4Inspired the Tartan Army on an ill-fated adventure to Argentina in 1978?

5Had an uncomfortable experience at the top of the Empire State Building?

6Had enjoyed a spot of naked grappling with Oliver Reed?

7 Would - if his most famous song was anything to go by - have been advised to
carry an umbrella?

8Was a newspaper columnist noted for writing sentences that often ran to more
than 100 words?

9Coulda been a contender?

10Had a programme on BBC radio that first aired in 1946?

ANSWERS

At Home ...: 1 John Prescott; 2 Because it was the colour adopted by the
suffragette movement; 3 Joan Collins; 4 Crimean War nurse Mary Seacole; 5 Kerry
McFadden; 6 Oxford; 7 Nicholas van Hoogstraten; 8 The scheme whereby the
Government helped to fund war veterans' return to battle zones; 9 Burberry; 10
John Prescott and Gordon Brown met to discuss the succession to Tony Blair

... And Abroad 1 Martha Stewart; 2 John Howard of Australia; 3 Australia's (Tony
Abbott); 4 Yousuf Islam (formerly Cat Stevens); 5 Queen (lead singer Freddie
Mercury had Iranian ancestry); 6 The bombing of Dresden during the Second World
War; 7 Italian leader Silvio Berlusconi; 8 Ethiopia; 9 Norway; 10 Papa Wemba

In the Money: 1 A Pontiac car; 2 Chris Evans; 3 pounds 118,000; 4 Damien Hirst;
5 Jennifer Lopez; 6 Cherie Blair; 7 Elton John; 8 Picasso; 9 Franz Ferdinand; 10
George Galloway

Numbers Game: 1 13 per cent; 2 Dan Brown, author of The Da Vinci Code; 3 Tom
Cruise; 4 639; 5 Jennifer's Diary in Harpers & Queen; 6 One thousand million;
and one million million; 7 Larry Hagman of Dallas fame; 8 Nick Drake; 9 179; 10
The Queen Mary 2 luxury liner

Life and Love: 1 Alan Milburn; 2 Ray Parlour; 3 Nicole Kidman; 4 Jeremy Clarkson
punched Piers Morgan; 5 Ray Davies of The Kinks; 6 Apple; 7 John Lennon; 8 Julie
Burchill; 9 Lynda La Plante; 10 Camilla Parker Bowles

Arts, Books and Showbiz: 1 Mike Read, Oscar Wilde; 2 Roddy Doyle; 3 The
Permanent Way and Stuff Happens; 4 Jon Snow; Simon Gray; Graham Norton; Andrew
Marr; 5 The Ladykillers; 6 The Royal Opera House; 7 Vivienne Westwood; 8 Return
of the King - the third in the Lord of the Rings trilogy; 9 Hamlet; 10 David
Baddiel

Who said?: 1 Tony Blair; 2 Prince Charles; 3 Boris Johnson on his trip to
Liverpool to apologise for a Spectator article; 4 David Beckham after he
deliberately got himself booked in order to serve a ban for a match that he knew
he would miss through injury anyway; 5 Rod Liddle; 6 Saddam Hussein; 7 DJ Tony
Blackburn, who was temporarily suspended from Classic Gold FM for playing
non-playlist Cliff Richard records; 8 Lady Thatcher, writing on the occasion of
Ronald Reagan's funeral; 9 Nelson Mandela, on retiring from public life; 10
George Bush

Sport: 1 Middlesbrough; 2 Opening match: Portugal 1 Greece 2; final: Portugal 0
Greece 1; 3 South Africa; 4 Three - Kelly Holmes's two and the men's 4 x 100m;
the other six were won in cycling, sailing, rowing and equestrianism; 5 Hicham
El-Guerrouj of Morocco; 6 China (the hosts in 2008); 7 Andrew Strauss; 8 Cyclist
Lance Armstrong; 9 6hrs 33mins; 10 Paula Radcliffe

In the Spotlight: 1 Alleged attempt to overthrow government of Equatorial
Guinea; 2 American would-be owner of ManUtd; 3 UK tourist jailed for joking she
had a bomb in her bags at Miami airport; 4 First black winner of Mastermind; 5
Anti-Kerry Vietnam veterans; 6 Ex-City secretary convicted of pounds 4.3m worth
of fraud; 7 Would-be EU commissioner with controversial views on abortion and
homosexuality; 8 Naked rambler; 9 Pregnant model for sculpture on fourth plinth
in Trafalgar Square; 10 UK ambassador recalled from Uzbekistan for criticising
the regime

In Memoriam: 1 Janet Leigh (actress in Psycho); 2 John Peel; 3 Peter Ustinov; 4
Scotland football manager Ally McLeod; 5 Fay Wray (actress in King Kong); 6 Alan
Bates; 7 Sacha Distel ("Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head"); 8 Bernard Levin; 9
Marlon Brando (line from On the Waterfront); 10 Alistair Cooke

1 McDonald's; 2 They were models; 3 John Kerry. They are his daughters, Vanessa
and Alexandra; 4 Graf Spee; 5 St Andrews; 6 Elizabeth Jagger; 7 Mostar in
Bosnia; 8 Pop star Gloria Trevi leaves jail; 9 Test record 400 not out (vs
England); 10 Members of Silver Ring virginity movement

PICTURE ANSWERS

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               11 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 26, 2004, Sunday

WHATEVER HAPPENED TO... ELIZABETH WINKFIELD, PENSIONER

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 167 words


Elizabeth Winkfield, 83, drew the nation's attention to Westward Ho! in Devon
when she was summoned to Barnstaple Magistrates' Court for withholding pounds
98.80 of her pounds 747.81 council tax. The rate had risen by 18 per cent in the
previous year, but Ms Winkfield announced that she was only paying 2.5 per cent
more because it seemed "a reasonable amount". John Prescott disagreed. "You have
to face up to your responsibilities," he told her.

The plot thickened when it emerged that Ms Winkfield was a member of the UK
Independence Party, and that her story had been taken on by Max Clifford. "The
lady involved is withholding her council tax because of her objection to certain
aspects of the European Union," announced Labour's Clive Soley. "I'm not
refusing to pay because I can't afford it," she countered. "I'm making a stand
because it is iniquitous."

Ten months on, Torridge District Council occasionally writes to her, letting her
know that "this amount is still owing".

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               12 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               December 26, 2004

If you thought 2004 was outrageous . . .

BYLINE: SUZANNE MOORE

SECTION: FB_S; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1080 words


THAT special time of year is here when we should all be thinking about bettering
ourselves in some way. And, as usual, I know better than everyone else about
what the great, the good, the bad and the ugly are resolving for the coming
year:

PAUL BURRELL

NOW the public has seen the real Paul Burrell and taken me to their bosom, or
rather their pecs, I feel totally embraced in a way that makes me come over all
emotional.

You saw into Paul Burrell's soul and you liked him! Thank you. I quite like him
too and Tom Hanks I don't know if I mentioned he is one of my biggest fans likes
him loads. And her Maj likes me, not in the same way that Diana did but
obviously I can't talk about that as I always try to keep that special
relationship private.

The year will see a new Paul Burrell ready to deal with whatever life throws at
him and possibly some flower-arranging. Clearly it's hard for me to go back to
being a butler I am now a celebrity in my own right but somehow like the rest of
the Royals I will fulfil my duty to my public.

ALAN MILBURN

EVERYONE knows I am a huge advocate of getting the right work/life balance so I
am very concerned about Gordon's workload and will be doing everything to make
sure he can spend more time with his family.

DIANE ABBOTT

I WILL carry on resolutely defending the indefensible. This means keeping my boy
at private school, pawing Portillo and attacking Blunkett for not behaving as a
Labour MP should. In other words I will carry on being a smug, incompetent
hypocrite.

It's what my constituents expect of me.

BRITNEY SPEARS / VICKY POLLARD / CAMILLA PARKER BOWLES

I DO, I do, I do. Especially after 27 Diet Lemonade Bacardi Breezers. Yeah, but
no, but just 'cos you married someone don't mean you fancy them!

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

I WAS too good for TV and for that dozy shower, UKIP. Still, if a grateful
nation wants me to lead them, I might just consider it.

OSAMA BIN LADEN

NUH, nurnny, nhah nhah.

KIMBERLY QUINN

I SEE a few windows opening in my diary even though I am cutting down the
'networking'.

But what's a girl to do with so many vacant slots when she is no longer a lady
who lunches and is lunched in return? There is work, of course, which means lots
of lunching, nibbles and, sometimes , intimate dinners and there are the babies
but they are well looked after by the nanny and that lovely little man what ' s
his name?  the one I married at a lunch one day.

Anyway, after all the pressure I have been under lately I need some 'me' time.
So I hope in 2005 I will be left alone with my family, a few faithful dining
companions and just the odd lunchbox or two if I'm feeling peckish.

DAVID BLUNKETT / BRIAN McFADDEN / BOB GELDOF

WHAT is the world coming to when you can't run off with a lap dancer or a
married woman without people poking their noses in? Why do the courts give
custody of children to women when there are fathers out there who will do
anything for their kids from fast tracking visas to writing mawkish pop songs
about them?

In 2005 we want fathers to get the recognition they deserve. We are sick of
being discriminated against just because we are living saints, superheroes,
blind or drunk or blind drunk.

Remember everything we do, we do for the little kiddies.

GEORGE BUSH

I HAVE seen into Donald Rumsfeld's heart and, trust me, it is just as mechanical
as the device he uses to stamp his condolence letters with.

Just kidding, he cares about Iraq as much as I do. We want to bring them folks
some democracy for New Year whether they like it or not.

RUTH KELLY

I SOLEMNLY vow to have no more children, not to look so young and not to be so
clever, as I can see this is making some people extremely cross indeed.

Banish the post-Christmas blues with a journey aboard the Orient-Express British
Pullman. Our trip to Bath begins with brunch and Bucks Fizz and ends with a four
course supper, champagne and wine served on the return journey.

In between, you can explore this beautiful Georgian city, visiting its Roman
Baths and Costume Museum. Or you could decide simply to join us for brunch or
tea an unforgettable way to forget about the gloomy winter weather.

TONY BLAIR

IT'S down to me alone to bring peace to the Middle East. And I've made a good
start. I believe we are on the way to building a bridge over the river that
takes us to the turning near the road at the edge of the road map.

Further, I will go as far as making a firm commitment, having consulted
carefully with Peter, Carole and Alastair, that after my re-election I will make
the ultimate sacrifice and never again appear in casual wear.

THE ENTIRE STAFF OF THE SPECTATOR

SORRY, no time for resolutions.

We are extremely busy inverting pyramids of piffle.

ELTON JOHN

I OWE it to my millions of fans and the vile pigs in the media not to be so
bloody repressed. I am going to say what I think because I am quite sick of
living my life like a candle in the wind.

I prefer to be more of a blowtorch myself. I am thin, with great hair and very
happily married and those who say otherwise can just sod off, the repulsive
bitches.

Who can honestly say that I have been wrong about anything this year?

Shouldn't George Michael get out more? Isn't Madonna just a jumped-up mime
artist? Is Robbie Williams a well budgie?

Should Victoria have left that lovely David on his own without a PlayStation?
Was I right or was I right?

JONATHAN ROSS

AS I've appeared so little on TV over the past year I mean, I am never on a
shopping channel I am going to make sure that every single time you switch on in
2005 I will be there. You think I'm joking?

REBECCA LOOS

REALLY, I never felt degraded by my experience with that pig. It was part of my
job to look after him I am in PR after all and I just got on with it.

Actually, I felt quite sorry for the pig as it was so lonely and it was only
when it started texting me did I realise that this wasn't just animal husbandry
we were talking about but a real relationship. But I have resolved to only
become involved with single animals in the future. Like Stan Collymore.

NATALIE APPLETON

I JUST don't have it in me to go on. I feel nauseous.

Oh God. Is it nearly the New Year? I have a thing about the New Year I don't
think I can make any resolutions.

I have given it my all.

There is nothing left.

Pass the oxygen.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               13 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           December 26, 2004, Sunday

Quiz 2004

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News Review 1

LENGTH: 2249 words


Who embarrassed his wife with a claim about Tony Blair's private life? Where
would you find a Buff Orpington? Who said 'That's me off Madonna's Christmas
card list'? Sharpen your wits with this year's quiz, compiled by Roland White

1 It's the biggest of its kind (1,132ft long), it has a whistle you can hear 10
miles away, and was given a rousing send-off by the Queen in January. What is
it?

2 In an attempt to influence the result of the US presidential election,
Guardian readers sent 14,000 letters to where?

3 Tony Blair revealed in January that he once slept rough in London with a
companion called Clarence. Who, or what, was Clarence?

4 Which of the following countries did not join the EU on May 1 this year:
Malta, Hungary, Latvia, Bulgaria, Turkey, Poland?

5 How did Alicia Monckton's love life become a spectator sport?

6 What is Roger Knapman's job, and who wants it?

7 Sir John Mortimer was revealed to be the father of which actress's grown-up
son?

8 Who is Doug Smith, and why did he resign?

9 Who complained about being mugged in a London park at 4.30 one morning, then
changed their mind?

10 Who are Charlie McCreevy, Joe Borg, Louis Michel and Viviane Reding?

11 Which cabinet minister, who resigned in September, used to introduce himself
with the words "Hello, I'm the boring one"?

12 Who embarrassed his wife with a claim about Tony Blair's private life?

13 Who was to blame for the £431m cost of the Scottish parliament, which was 10
times its original budget?

14 What are the unusual retirement plans of David Hope, Archbishop of York?

15 Arsenal set a new record in August after going 43 games undefeated. Whose
record did they beat?

16 What parliamentary distinction did Claire Curtis-Thomas achieve this year?

17 By what name is the Royal Highland Regiment better known?

18 Why were the following women in the news: Lynndie England, Faria Alam,
teacher Sarah Forsyth?

19 Which prominent western politician is named after a musical instruction?

20 Who walked into the sunset this October, a sunset followed by light scattered
showers and occasional fog in upland areas?

WHO REALLY SAID THAT?

1 Our enemies are innovative and resourceful, and so are we. They never stop
thinking about new ways to harm our country and our people, and neither do we.

2 That's me off Madonna's Christmas card list. But do I give a toss? No!.

3 I'm often unlucky enough to be picked out for those special searches due to my
obvious resemblance to Mr Bin Laden.

4 Some days I wonder if I'll ever do anything meaningful again.

5 Look, the point is ... er, what is the point? It is a tough job but somebody
has got to do it.

6 They were not Swinging Sixties for me, and I've been trying to make up for
lost time ever since.

8 I don't do humble.

7 I really do believe deep down that I have the most faithful husband I could
hope for.

9 I'm at that age when former child stars go off the rails.

10 I think I did something for the worst possible reason - just because I could.

WHAT COMES NEXT?

1 So no one told you life was gonna be this way...

2 Does he ride a red-nosed reindeer, does a ton-up on his sleigh, do the fairies
keep him sober for a day?

3 Filled to the brim with girlish glee...

4 Though cowards flinch and traitors sneer...

5 But here's the one that's driving me berserk...

6 I think you are really fit ...

7 Up through the atmosphere, up where the air is clear ...

8 Can't get away to marry you today...

9 I was sick and tired of everything...

10 May she defend our laws, and ever give us cause, to sing with heart and
voice...

WHERE WOULD YOU FIND?

1 The island of Reil, the fissure of Rolando, the circle of Willis 2 A Prince, a
Churchwarden and a Canadian?

3 The Sea of Showers, the Sea of Nectar, the Sea of Clouds

4 Mihrab, minbar, qibla wall

5 Buff Orpingtons, the Speckled Sussex, the Transylvanian Naked Neck

6 Beerpipe, Cuckoo, Bearded Gamba, Sharp Mixture

7 The Norwood Builder, The Greek Interpreter, The Man With the Twisted Lip, The
Solitary Cyclist

8 Phoebe, Pandora, Helene, Calypso

9 The Red Devils, Pontius Pilate's Bodyguard, Cherrypickers

10 The Red Devils, the Canaries, the Trotters

WHAT ARE THESE PEOPLE BETTER KNOWN AS?

1 Sarah Woodruff

2 James Brine, James Hammett, George and James Loveless, Thomas and John
Standfield

3 Count Laszlo de Almasy

4 Lieutenant-General Sir Michael Willcocks

5 William Frederick Cody

6 John Merrick

7 Edmond Dantes

8 Jeannine Deckers

9 Tom Booker

10 Bob Ferris and Terry Collier

O COME ALL YE UNFAITHFUL. LINK THESE PHRASES WITH FAMOUS LOVERS

1 Having examined the detailed rules today he realises he has made a genuine
mistake and will be repaying the cost of the ticket to the parliamentary
authorities

2 See! How she leans her cheek upon her hand: O! that I were a glove upon that
hand

3 I did not have sexual relations with that woman

4 U made me so horny the other day had nightmare trying to focus. U playing
tonight?

5 Whatever 'in love' means

6 I have found it impossible to carry the heavy burden of responsibility and to
discharge my duties ... as I would wish to do

7 Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety

8 It's an inverted pyramid of piffle

9 Yet each man kills the thing he loves, by each let this be heard. Some do it
with a bitter look, some with a flattering word

10 You need kissing, badly. That's what's wrong with you. You should be kissed
and often, and by someone who knows how.

100 YEARS AGO: THE NEWS OF 1904

1 In this year, the international call sign CQD was agreed. It was replaced two
years later by what more familiar signal?

2 What did the United States buy for $ 10m?

3 Which of the following were not born in this year: Cary Grant, Alec Guinness,
Salvador Dali, Cecil Beaton, Glenn Miller?

4 A new craze caught on in a big way this year, according to a report by the
postmastergeneral which recorded a 25% increase in England and a 35% rise in
Scotland. That means 613m were sent. But what were they?

5 An engineer and a car salesman, introduced at the Midland hotel in Manchester,
produced their first car. What famous British brand did they establish?

6 A train travelled from London to Plymouth in record time. To the nearest
quarter of an hour, how long did it take?

7 Under the entente cordiale, the British agreed with the French that what would
from now on be classified as a fish?

8 The events of which novel took place in Dublin on June 16?

9 Theatre audiences were Hooked by which children's fantasy that opened in
London?

10 In an incident that feels very much of our own times, a woman was arrested in
September for doing what on Fifth Avenue, New York?

ELECTION SPECIAL

1 Whose 1929 election slogan was the rather uninspiring Safety First?

2 Which country was the first to give women the vote?

3 Which prime ministers represented the following constituencies: Huyton,
Caernarvon Boroughs, Sidcup, Huntingdon?

4 When was the last British general election that was not held on a Thursday:
1931, 1945 or 1951?

5 The highest turnout at a British general election during the past 100 years
was 86.6%. To within four years, when was it?

6 If this man wins the general election, would the last person left in the
country please turn out the lights. Of whom did The Sun say this?

7 What contribution did farm worker Craig Evans make to the 2001 election
campaign?

8 Which two British prime ministers share the middle name of Leonard?

9 What part of five-year-old Jennifer Bennett became an issue in the 1992
election?

10 What political distinction do James Callaghan, Alec Douglas-Home and Neil
Kinnock have in common?

LATE AND LAMENTED, BUT WHO ARE THEY?

1 "When I said I wanted to be a comedian they all laughed," he said. "Well,
they're not laughing now"

2 Wartime batman to David Niven, and actor famous for playing a great detective.
Also chancellor of Durham University

3 Presenter of the longest-running radio series to be presented by a single
person

4 Blue Peter presenter who once flew while strapped to a light aircraft

5 When he called his wife Pig, did she offer him a few home truths?

6 "I have left orders to be awakened at any time in case of national emergency,"
he once said. "Even if I'm in a cabinet meeting"

7 He made wells well

8 An urban gorilla's girlfriend

9 Political leader known by his nickname, the Arabic for "Easygoing"

10 "I wouldn't say I was the best," he said, "but I'm in the top one"

ANSWERS

THE NEWS OF 2004

1 The Queen Mary 2, launched in January

2 Clark County, Ohio

3 His guitar

4 Bulgaria, Turkey

5 She was an assistant at The Spectator, whose affair with Rod Liddle was one of
four romantic entanglements at the so-called Sextator magazine

6 The leader of UKIP, who is being challenged by Robert Kilroy-Silk

7 Wendy Craig

8 Chief executive of the Child Support Agency. He left following criticism of
its performance

9 Actor Kevin Spacey

10 They are four new members of the European commission

11 Andrew Smith, former work and pensions secretary

12 Melvyn Bragg, whose wife has co-written a book with Cherie Blair, claimed the
prime minister considered resigning during the summer for family reasons

13 Nobody. An official inquiry found "no single villain of the piece"

14 He will become a parish priest in Ilkley

15 Nottingham Forest

16 She was revealed to have the largest expenses bill of any MP

17 The Black Watch

18 Lynndie England is the US soldier accused of sexually humiliating Iraqi
prisoners; Faria Alam was at the centre of an FA sex scandal; Prince Harry
denied claims by Sarah Forsyth that she helped him cheat in his art exam.

19 Condoleezza Rice, named after the phrase Con dolcezza (with sweetness)

20 Weatherman Michael Fish retired

WHO REALLY SAID WHAT?

1 George Bush (D)

2 Elton John (G)

3 Joan Collins (F)

4 Alastair Campbell (H)

5 Boris Johnson (J)

6 David Blunkett (B)

7 Victoria Beckham (C)

8 Robert Kilroy-Silk (E)

9 Charlotte Church (A)

10 Bill Clinton (I)

WHAT COMES NEXT?

1 Your job's a joke, you're broke, your love life's DOA (I'll Be There For You,
by the Rembrandts. The theme tune to Friends)

2 So here it is, Merry Christmas. From Merry Xmas Everybody, by Slade

3 Three little maids from school. From The Mikado, by Gilbert and Sullivan

4 We'll keep the red flag flying here. The Red Flag: anthem sung at the Labour
conferences

5 Why do only fools and horses work? The theme song to Only Fools and Horses

6 You're fit, but my gosh don't you know it. From Fit But You Know It, by the
Streets

7 Oh, let's go fly a kite. From the film version of Mary Poppins

8 My wife won't let me. From Waiting At The Church, a 1906 music hall song

9 When I called you last night from Glasgow. From Super Trouper, by Abba

10 God save the Queen. From second verse of the National Anthem

WHERE WOULD YOU FIND?

1 In the human head

2 In a pipe rack. They are different shapes of pipe

3 On the moon

4 They are features of a mosque

5 In a hen house. They are different types of chicken

6 In an organ. They are different organ stops

7 In the collected works of Sherlock Holmes. Each is the title of a different
Holmes adventure

8 They are moons of Saturn

9 In the British Army. They are the nicknames of the Parachute Regiment
(specifically the display team), the Royal Scots, and the King's Royal Husssars

10 In the English Premiership. They are the nicknames of Manchester United,
Norwich City and Bolton Wanderers.

BETTER KNOWN AS

1 The French Lieutenant's Woman

2 The Tolpuddle martyrs

3 The English Patient

4 Black Rod

5 Buffalo Bill

6 The Elephant Man

7 The Count of Monte Cristo

8 The Singing Nun

9 Horse Whisperer

10 Likely Lads

NEWS OF 1904

1 SOS

2 The Panama canal zone

3 Alec Guinness (1914)

4 Postcards

5 Rolls-Royce

6 Three hours, 46 minutes (100 years later, the usual time along the same route
is 3hr 58min: 12 minutes longer)

7 Lobster

8 Ulysses, by James Joyce

9 Peter Pan

10 Smoking

ELECTION SPECIAL

1 Stanley Baldwin

2 New Zealand in 1893

3 Harold Wilson (Huyton) David Lloyd George (Caernarvon) Edward Heath (Sidcup)
and John Major (Huntingdon)

4 1931, when the poll was held on Tuesday October 27

5 1910

6 Neil Kinnock

7 He very unwisely threw an egg at John Prescott, who retaliated with a punch

8 Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill and James Leonard Callaghan

9 Her ear

10 All led their parties but failed to win a general election

LATE LAMENTED

1 Bob Monkhouse

2 Peter Ustinov

3 Alistair Cooke

4 Caron Keating

5 John Peel

6 Ronald Reagan

7 Red Adair

8 Fay Wray

9 Yasser Arafat

10 Brian Clough

O COME ALL YE UNFAITHFUL

1 David Blunkett and Kimberly Quinn

2 Romeo and Juliet

3 Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky

4 David Beckham and Rebecca Loos (extract is from text messages)

5 Charles and Diana

6 Edward VIII and Mrs Simpson

7 Antony and Cleopatra

8 Boris Johnson and Petronella Wyatt

9 Oscar Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas (lines are from The Ballad of Reading
Gaol)

10 Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara, from Gone With The Wind


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The news of 2004

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               14 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 26, 2004

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 47 words


THE UKIP seems to be the only party talking common sense. At least it wants us
out of the EU and with control of our own country. Whether it would go as far as
making political correctness illegal remains to be seen (Sunday Express Letters,
December 19).

DBPulling, Salford

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               15 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           December 26, 2004, Sunday

Who said what in 2004

BYLINE: Compiled by Fiona Matthias

SECTION: News; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1556 words

JANUARY

You wake up and hear [Harold] Shipman has topped himself. And you think, is it
too early to open a bottle? Then you discover everybody's upset. You have to be
very cautious in this job.

David Blunkett, the then Home Secretary

I think of myself as an athlete because I have been on Grandstand and I wear
trainers.

Andy (The Viking) Fordham, 30 stone, the world darts champion

FEBRUARY

I will shake your hand, sir, because of your position. But this hand is stained
with the blood of my son.

Reg Keys, whose son, Thomas, a lance corporal, was killed in Iraq, meets Geoff
Hoon, the Defence Secretary

At the age of 81, I am left with one pleasure and that's passive smoking. I love
it.

Baroness Trumpington

I only take Viagra when I'm with more than one woman.

Jack Nicholson, 66, actor

MARCH

I don't miss the limos and the jets. I do miss... what do I miss? I do miss
Tony.

Alastair Campbell, the Prime Minister's former director of communications

APRIL

I just long for the day when I wake up and find that the Saudi royal family are
swinging from lamp-posts.

Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London

My doggy had to go.

Kevin Spacey on why he was in a park in London at 4am, after claiming he had
been mugged

Their money was left lying about; if it wasn't me, it would have been someone
else. Frankly, it would have been rude not to.

Joyti De-Laurey, a former secretary at Goldman Sachs convicted of stealing
pounds 4.4m

Now you'll see how an Italian dies.

Fabrizio Quattrocchi defiantly tears off his hood before his Iraqi captors
execute him

I obviously need to get to the gym.

Tony Blair after a fellow holidaymaker in Bermuda thought Leo was his grandson

I would wipe out the first three rows. We can't turn these loose on anybody.

Dolly Parton on why she won't follow Janet Jackson in baring a breast on stage

MAY

A lie gets round the world before truth has got its boots on.

Brigadier Alex Birtwistle over pictures in the Mirror supposedly showing British
troops torturing an Iraqi captive

This is a good day for lying, drug-abusing prima donnas who want to have their
cake with the media and the right to then shamelessly guzzle it with their
Cristal champagne.

Piers Morgan, the then Mirror editor, on Naomi Campbell's courtroom win over the
paper's coverage of her treatment for drug addiction

Which way to the castle, love?

Builders ask directions from an elderly lady walking her dogs in Windsor. It was
the Queen

When my daughter had an appendix operation I had to sign two consent forms, yet
no one thought it necessary to tell me about this.

Maureen Smith, after a school arranged a secret abortion for her daughter,
Melissa, 14

JUNE

Don't call me, I'll call you.

Nelson Mandela announces his retirement

To Ronnie - Well done, good and faithful servant.

Margaret Thatcher's message in the condolence book for Ronald Reagan, quoting
Matthew, Chapter 25, verse 23

JULY

Take it easy, I'm an old man.

Saddam Hussein, the former Iraqi dictator, as guards led him out of court

We're talking a 10 here.

Tracey Emin, the artist, when asked how good looking she was on a scale of one
to 10

Christians worship God, who is to be praised and glorified - not tipped with
less than the price of a pint.

Reverend Mark Sowerby demanding nothing less than notes for his collection plate

No self-respecting small businessman with a brain... would ever employ a lady of
childbearing age.

Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP MEP

I am absolutely confident that the mechanisms for judging my fallibility are
infallible.

Tony Blair, in a Commons answer

AUGUST

It's like Pee Wee Herman threatening the Godfather.

An American TV commentator, when John Edwards, the Democrat vice-presidential
candidate, vowed to hunt down and destroy al-Qaeda

If he had won Euro 2004 he could have slept with the guard dog and got away with
it.

David Mellor, the former Tory minister and adulterer, on Sven-Goran Eriksson's
fling with a secretary from the FA

World peace and a diet pill that really works.

Joan Rivers when asked what she would like to achieve before she dies

I wouldn't want to move to a smaller house.

U2's Bono on why he would never run for US President

SEPTEMBER

She's not a legend. She's a beginner.

Lauren Bacall on Nicole Kidman, her Birth co-star

I am at that age when former child stars go off the rails.

Charlotte Church, 18, singer

It is a social experience for most people. They want to meet the people in the
queue.

David Mills, the chief executive of the Post Office, insisting that customers
are happy with long delays

I wanted to spend more time with my family, but I found my family didn't want to
spend more time with me.

Greg Dyke, the former director-general of the BBC

Hello, you are through to NTL customer services. We don't give a f*** about you.
We are never here. We are not going to handle any of your complaints. Just f***
off and leave us alone. Get a life.

The message on the telephone company's complaints line

Any fool can write a novel but it takes a real genius to sell it.

JG Ballard, author

Being stuck between Rugby and Nuneaton in a broken-down train is bad enough.
Being lost in space is probably marginally worse.

Michael Fabricant, the shadow minister for industry and technology, on Virgin's
plans to expand into space tourism

OCTOBER

Because it was quite dark in that corner I was being pushed towards shaking
hands with somebody just as a matter of courtesy and then it transpired it was
President Mugabe.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary

It was a night.

Brigitte Bardot, 70, when asked what was the best day of her life

There's no point in asking focus groups. I go down the pub and hear about it
there.

Liam Fox, the Conservative Party co-chairman, on his research techniques

I must keep up the suntan. It's a national institution after all.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the MEP

There is no bullet-proof vest in my size.

Ariel Sharon, the Israeli Prime Minister

Peter Mandelson has hardly been in Brussels two weeks and already Wales has
fallen into the Irish Sea.

Michael Ancram, the shadow foreign secretary, after the principality was left
off a map of the British Isles for the cover of an EU yearbook

There was no sex for 14 days.

Arnold Schwarzenegger on his wife Maria Shriver's reaction to his pro-Bush
speech at the Republican convention

People talk to me more slowly now.

Ann Widdecombe, the Tory MP, on life as a blonde

No soup or pizzas beyond this point.

Note pinned to the Arsenal changing room at Manchester City after players
started a food fight at Old Trafford

NOVEMBER

The British - who rarely start a fight, but always know how to finish it - have
nothing to be ashamed of.

Tony Parsons, the author and television commentator, on why the Queen should not
apologise for the wartime bombing of Dresden

I voted for the $87billion before I voted against it.

John Kerry, the Democrat presidential candidate, on his flip-flop voting on the
defence spending bill for troops in Iraq

I earned capital in the political campaign and I intend to spend it.

George W Bush promises to exploit fully his second term

He'll polish anything that's stationary and salute everything that moves.

A Sandhurst cadet explains what the future holds for Prince Harry at the Royal
Military Academy

What is it that makes everyone think they are qualified to do things far beyond
their technical capabilities?

Memo from Prince Charles produced at a tribunal where one of his staff was
claiming sexual discrimination and unfair dismissal

I've had a car accident - please don't shout at me.

Lauren Miller, 17, calls her father from her mobile after her car plunged 100ft
from a clifftop - with Lauren in it

All we can do is hope and pray.

Colin Firth on suggestions that his fellow actor Hugh Grant might retire

Well, I don't keep a diary and I don't sleep with middle-class men.

Robbie Williams when asked if he identified with Bridget Jones

We're not saying, "We're politicians, trust us." We know you don't trust us.

Michael Howard, the leader of the Conservative Party

DECEMBER

I might shock everyone and call the new baby San Miguel Beckham. I like names
that are different but not ridiculous.

Victoria Beckham on possible names for her unborn child

We go out on the pull together.

The Duchess of York on her relationship with her daughter, Beatrice, 16

I've been in the business for 20 years, then I come on this show, sit on my
arse, eat crap, jump out of an aeroplane - and now everyone wants to talk about
me.

Joe Pasquale on winning I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here

His brain is the best in the world. I wanted to talk to him about the universe
but he just wanted to watch the girls.

Peter Stringfellow describing a visit to his nightclub by Professor Stephen
Hawking

I couldn't really see the point of having lunch unless it started at one and
ended a week later in Monte Carlo.

Arthur Smith, the comedian, on his drinking days

One should be capable of forgiveness in a marriage ... they are my children and
I love them and am not interested in biological details.

Stephen Quinn, the husband of Kimberly Quinn, the former lover of David Blunkett

Mr Blunkett and I ate Dover sole. Ms Fortier ate Mr Blunkett.

Petronella Wyatt on Mr Blunkett's first meeting with Mrs Quinn

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               16 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 24, 2004, Friday

Let them eat fish

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 31

LENGTH: 86 words

SIR - Peter Neilson of UKIP (Letter,

Dec 23) may be correct in noting that the landlocked member states of the EU do
not catch fish, but he neglects the fact that they eat it. If there is a single
lesson that the past 25 years have taught us, it is that industries should be
regulated in the interests of their consumers, and not only in the interests of
the producers.

In both politics and now, it seems, economics, UKIP is hankering after a lost
world.

Richard Laming

Director, Federal Union

London SE1

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               17 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 24, 2004
                              Correction Appended

G2: Christmas quiz answers

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1562 words


Britain Peter Preston

1 61,400 entries fill 60 volumes of the new dictionary of national biography,
price £7,500. 2 Ray Parlour, Arsenal, now Middlesbrough midfielder when ex-wife
Karen got her alimony upgraded. 3 AN Other (aka Ukip). 4 a Peter Mandelson,
Brussels Commissioner

b Amanda Platell, playing Judy to Piers Morgan's Richard. 5 Jemima Goldsmith,
from Imran Khan to Hugh Grant. 6 Cherie Blair, not discussing her 18-year-old
son on Central TV. 7 Cherie Blair, number 12 on Forbes magazine's list of the
world's most powerful women. 8 The western extended congestion charge area Ken
Livingstone wants. 9 Lord Birt, who wanted Ron Neil as his BBC DG deputy, fell
out with Michael Grade - then saw Grade become chairman of governors. 10 Lord
Hutton.

The world Timothy Garton Ash

1 Spot.

2 Lichtenstein.

3 Sonia Gandhi.

4 John F Kerry.

5 Because you have to be Pope.

6 Czech Airlines.

7 New Jersey.

8 The "Republic of China"

(Taiwan).

9 Timbuctoo.

10 852 million. (Figures for 2000-2002.)

Politics Michael White

1 Dame Pauline Neville-Jones and Baroness Sarah Hogg, the two upper-class
Establishment women on the BBC board of governors whom Dyke blamed for swinging
their colleagues in favour of his dismissal

2 Five. 316-311.

3 Both supported the campaign to impeach Tony Blair for launching an "illegal"
war in Iraq.

4 MPs on the Commons public administration committee which proposed modernising
the honours systems, scrapping knighthoods and making the OBE the Order of
British Excellence.

5 Robert Kilroy-Silk MEP, whose speech to the Ukip conference in Bristol divided
the party and cost it the support of some wealthy backers.

6 Protesters from Fathers4Justice who hurled three condoms full of purple powder
(their campaign colours) at the PM from the Commons public gallery, triggering
tighter security at Westminster in case al-Qaida tried it with anthrax.

7 Nicola Davies was the Lib Dem candidate in the mid-year Hodge Hill byelection
where Labour made an issue out of unpopular mobile phone masts and the fact that
her day-job was working for the industry. Dubbed "Nokia" by Labour, she lost.

8 Ian Paisley, the DUP leader, when insisting that the IRA must allow a
photographer to capture the moment when the Provos finally destroy their secret
arms dumps.

9 Oona King, MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, during her time as a young
researcher, though she did not identify him and the Daily Mail could only
produce a shortlist of five suspects. Some people, mostly male, accused her of
seeking publicity and sympathy ahead of a tight general election in east London.

10 They wrecked the career of David Blunkett. Kimberly Quinn, his former lover,
exposed his misuse of his office to help her. Stephen Pollard padded out his
indiscretions about his colleagues into a book. The little lad is the son
Blunkett claims to have fathered with Quinn and he went to court to secure
access so he could "hold him again'.'

The royals Catherine Bennett

1 Paul Burrell. (It was a corgi.)

2 They have both hit people in public places.

3 Princess Diana Memorial Fountain in Hyde Park.

4 Princess Beatrice and Sarah Ferguson, according to the latter.

5 Raine Spencer, according to the late princess, seen talking in video tapes
recorded by her "voice coach" Peter Settelen.

6 Robert Mugabe - who enjoys the most cordial relations with Mr Davy.

7 Coffee.

8 Pop star.

9 Soda water - strongly recommended by Paul Burrell, on I'm a Celebrity . . .
Get Me etc.

10. Prince William.

Science Tim Radford

1 Beagle 2, the little British lander, arrived at Mars but failed to send a
message home and was given up for dead in January.

2 Gallus gallus caught up with Rattus norvegicus when scientists published the
entire genome of the progenitor of all domestic fowls on December 9. The
laboratory/plague/ sewer/brown/ love rat sequence was published on April 1.

3 Homo floresiensis was no more than a metre tall - three feet less than your
average Homo sapiens - with an improbably small brain. The perky little hominid,
an example of island dwarfism, seemed to have flourished on Flores 18,000 years
ago, according to the journal Nature.

4 Sedna, a lump of icy rock the size of the UK, named after an Inuit goddess,
but also logged as 2003 VB16, and the most distant object orbiting the sun, was
hailed as a candidate for Planet X.

5 A fossilised ancestor of Tyrannosaurus rex not only had predatory habits, it
also had a coat of fluffy down, Chinese and US scientists reported. If Dilong
paradoxus had feathers, then no doubt T. rex did too.

6 Genesis spent three years catching bits of the sun, then came back to Earth,
to drop its wisps of wisdom from the edge of space into a net wielded by a
helicopter. Unfortunately, the parachute failed to open. Nasa scientists are
still picking up the pieces.

7 All 25m English elms that perished in the 70s with Dutch elm disease may have
been clones of a rooted plant or cutting introduced from Spain by Roman
viticulturists. Bad at setting seed, but good at propagating vegetatively, the
English elm was probably imported as a prop for vines, geneticists report in
Nature .

8 Keith Kendrick of the Babraham Institute found that distressed and anxious
sheep could be soothed by a photograph of another sheep, especially one it
recognised. Sheep can remember up to 50 other sheep and 10 humans for up to two
years (according to the proceedings of the Royal Society, August 25).

9 Cassini-Huygens arrived at Saturn on July 1 after a seven-year journey. It
sped between the rings of Saturn, slowed down and began looping around the
planet in a mission designed to last another four years.

10 Some 43,000 Britons voted for their favourite screen scientist of all time
and chose Dr Bunsen Honeydew from the Muppets (and his faithful assistant
Beaker), the British Association for the Advancement of Science and the BBC
announced.

Culture Mark Lawson

1 Lucian Freud displayed a painting of Andrew Parker Bowles.

2 Shaun Of The Dead and Birth (in which a boy called Sean claims to be the
reincarnation of a middle-aged man). 3 Emmerich's film The Day After Tomorrow
dramatised the effects of global warming; Crichton's novel State of Fear argued
that global warming was a myth.

4 Kevin Spacey, having mislaid his mobile phone while dog-walking, campaigned
against cellphones in the theatre.

5 Fred Ebb (lyricist of Cabaret) died. 6 Ricky Gervais with his book Flanimals.
7 Jack Vettriano's painting The Singing Butler sold for a record amount. 8 John
Geilgud's Letters were published. 9 Alan Bennett wrote The History Boys, his
first play set in a school since 40 Years On. 10 The Gherkin (Swiss Re Tower)
was built in London; the Sage music centre in Gateshead.

War and peace Jonathan Freedland

1 b) The Hutton report suggested that intelligence chief John Scarlett might
have been "subconsciously influenced" by his masters at Downing Street.

2 b) Tony Blair was the only one not to lose his job over false claims relating
to the invasion of Iraq.

3 d.

4 b.

5 c.

6 c) The latest death toll of the six-year conflict in Congo stands at 3.8m.

7 c.

8 d.

9 a) Several Israeli commentators said Arafat deserved the prize for dying and
therefore unblocking the peace process.

10 d) The US defence secretary was sharply criticised for not personally signing
letters to bereaved parents of fallen US soldiers - but leaving the job to an
automated machine.

Love and romance Zoe Williams

1 d.

2 Strawberry.

3 In a lift.

4 a.

5 She is too lazy.

6 China.

7 c.

8 He stopped to have a whole apple pie to himself.

9 b.

10 Porsche for men, Audi for women.

Television Gareth McLean

1 a) Friends (Ross to Rachel). b) Frasier to himself. c) Sex and the City
(Carrie to Big).

2 In a body bag, after a helicopter fell on him.

3 Kerry McFadden and Joe Pasquale won I'm a Celebrity in February and December
respectively. Natasha Kaplinsky won Strictly Come Dancing in July, while Jill
Halfpenny won the second series this month.

4 Jenni Falconer, on GMTV.

5 a Little Britain. b Bubbles' number in Monte Carlo is 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9.

6 Janine killed Barry, her brand new husband. Maya, Dev's scorned ex-fiancee,
attempted to off Sunita and Dev.

7 Jason, the musclebound Scot.

8 Green Wing.

9 John Hurt and Jenny Agutter. Julia Davis.

10 Robert Vaughn appeared in Hustle.

Sport Marina Hyde

1 Stacking the dishwasher.

2 Cesc Fabregas or Ashley Cole.

3 Garforth Town.

4 A motorcycle.

5 Peter Alliss.

6 The tattooist had misspelt it "Kelly Homes".

7 They read "Ashley Giles - King of Spain".

8 He was recording A Question of Sport.

9 Ten.

10 That he'd "over-apologised".

The Steve Bell quiz

1 The commitment not to introduce top-up fees.

2 Mars.

3 Andrew Gilligan on Radio 4's Today programme and Gavyn Davies, chairman of the
BBC.

4 Libyan dictator Colonel Gadafy.

5 Home Office minister Beverley Hughes.

6 Having a referendum on the EU constitution.

7 He died.

8 Iyad Allawi and Ghazi al-Yawar, prime minister and president of the new
provisional Iraqi government.

9 Senator John Edwards of North Carolina.

10 More than 1,000 US dead in Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2005

CORRECTION: In a question about the footballer Ray Parlour, page 2, G2, December
24, we suggested that Middlesbrough was on the Wear. Sunderland is on the Wear.
Middlesbrough is on the Tees.

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 23, 2004, Thursday

Landlubbers' laws

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 17

LENGTH: 157 words

SIR - This week, the fishery ministers of the EU, which included those of
landlocked countries (Austria, Hungary, Luxembourg, Slovakia and the Czech
Republic) met in Brussels to decide how many fish Scottish fishermen can take
from our seas. The ministers from the Mediterranean countries (Italy, Malta,
Greece and Slovenia), whose countries do not operate the Common Fisheries Policy
in their own seas, also agreed these regulations. They were under pressure from
Spain and Portugal, who bring no resources, but insist on their share of
Scottish waters.

The ministers spent two days in debate on the proposals presented by Joe Borg,
the Maltese commissioner, who has been in the job for less than a month. The EU
Commission tied up the fudge and compromises into detailed regulations to become
law on January 1, 2005.

Our fishermen are expected to obey the unsighted EU law.

Peter Neilson,

Chairman, UKIP Scotland

Dalgety Bay, Fife

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               19 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 23, 2004

How Ukip splashed out for Euro poll

BYLINE: Sarah Hall, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 314 words


The UK Independence party outspent Labour in June's European elections by more
than £650,000 to seize a record 12 seats, the election watchdog yesterday
revealed.

The Eurosceptic party spent £2,361754 on campaign costs - over a third more than
Labour, which invested just £1,707,224 to secure its worst showing for almost a
century. It returned just 19 candidates.

The Conservative party spent the greatest sum - £3,130,226 - and was rewarded
with the highest number of seats, 27, despite a nine-point slump in the polls.

The Liberal Democrats were the smallest spenders with just £1,188,691. That saw
them match Ukip with 12 seats, to come joint third.

The figures, published by the Electoral Commission, are the first to reveal
levels of spending at the European elections. They give a detailed breakdown on
where the parties spent the cash.

The breakdown reveals that Ukip spent £1.59m on adver tising, or almost three
times as much as the Tories, who spent £571,940. A total of £320,218 was spent
by Ukip on leaflets and £228,218 on market research and advertising. The Tories
spent £1.72m on leaflets and mail shots.

Ukip's expenditure was largely funded by donations from the Yorkshire tycoon
Paul Sykes, who pumped £1.44m into the campaign. The Kent businessman Alan Bown
has donated £513,000 since March 2003.

The investments paid off, with Ukip pushing Labour into third place in the
south-west, south-east, and eastern regions, and taking 15.6% of the vote - more
than the Lib Dems on 14.4%.

Publishing the figures, which reveal the Green party's campaign cost £404,058,
Peter Wardle, the Electoral Commission's chief executive, said: "This is the
first time that political parties campaigning for election to the European
parliament have had to report their spending to the Electoral Commission."

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 23, 2004, Thursday

QUIZ OF THE YEAR: WHOSE MARRIAGE LASTED 55 HOURS?...;
 ...AND MORE THAN 200 OTHER QUESTIONS TO TEST YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE

BYLINE: RICHARD ASKWITH

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 2,3,4,5

LENGTH: 6649 words


GENERAL KNOWLEDGE

1 The law of the land

This time next year, which of the following activities will be banned in Britain
and which will be legal?

A Hunting wild mammals with dogs in England or Wales.

B Smoking in workplaces, restaurants and pubs serving food.

C Smacking a child with sufficient force to leave some redness or
bruisingseveral hours afterwards.

D Using a mobile phone, with a"hands-free device", while driving a car.

E Killing a burglar in one's own house.

F Not carrying an ID card.

G Disparaging the ProphetMohammed.

H Voting for the British NationalParty.

I Demonstrating in Parliament Square.

J Having sex with an animal.

2 Reckonings

A What closed after 434 days, pounds 155m in fees and 46 million words (30
million written and 16 million spoken)?

B What opened after seven years, with a final price tag - pounds 430m - more
than 10 times higher than its original budget?

C What has cost pounds 5bn in less than two years?

D What is budgeted to cost pounds 3.8bn, and, according to one estimate, could
end up costing pounds 11.9bn - but will only cost pounds 30m if it fails?

E What is 852 pages long (including 382 pages of protocols and 121 pages of
declarations) and took three years for a 105-member committee to draft?

3 The afterlife of Di

A What was the personal link between the Coroner of the Queen's Household, who
opened an inquest into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, on 6 January, and
the Coroner for Surrey, who opened an inquest into the death of Dodi Fayed on
the same day?

B What did Sir Elton John describe thus: "It's purely ugly. It looks like a
sewer... It's hideous. Hideous.  Disgraceful!"

C How much was the Diana Memorial Fund reported to have spent on its legal
battle with the Franklin Mint before surrendering control of pounds 13.5m of its
funds to the Mint in an out-of-court settlement in October?

D What linked a one-man stage show at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in the West
End of London (later transferred to Broadway) to I'm a Celebrity...?

E To what late bodyguard was the late Princess heard linking herself? Who made
the video in which she did so?

4 Rewards

A Who was paid an estimated pounds 30,000 per speech on the technicalities of
human-rights law?

B Who was left pounds 1m richer as a result of publishing some fake photographs?

C Whose failures of intelligence were rewarded with promotion to the top job in
his field?

D Who was left with a million share options and a pounds 10m pension pot after
resigning in disgrace from a blue-chip company?

E Whose sacking (along with that of his back-room staff) cost his employers
pounds 11m?

F Who got a peerage after giving about pounds 1m to the Labour Party?

5 Nature notes

A What came under spectacular pressure from the simultaneous swelling of the
Jordan and the Valency?

B Four hurricanes caused damage estimated at $ 23bn (pounds 12bn) in Florida.
What were their names?

C How many of the 195,000 foxes killed in Britain this year were killed by
hunts? (To the nearest 5,000.)

D Name Britain's three most popular household pets. (Clue: the first two are the
cat and the dog.)

E How many Outer Hebridean hedgehogs were saved from culling by Uist Hedgehog
Rescue's much publicised rescue campaign?

6 Foot in mouth disease

Who said (or wrote):

A "Our enemies are resourceful, and so are we. They never stop thinking about
new ways to harm our country, and neither do we"?

B "No small businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of child-bearing
age"?

C "I may think homosexuality is a sin; this has no effect on politics unless I
say that homosexuality is a crime."

D "A combination of economic misfortune... and an excessive predilection for
welfarism have created a peculiar, and deeply unattractive, psyche among many
Liverpudlians."

E "What do they Arabs think we feel about them?... That we admire them for being
suicide bombers, limb amputators, women repressors?"

7 Whistleblowers

What happened to:

A John Morrison (the adviser to the parliamentary Intelligence and Security
Committee who told Panorama in July that "I could almost hear the collective
raspberry going around Whitehall" when Tony Blair claimed Iraq posed a "serious
and current threat" to Britain)?

B James Cameron (British consul in Romania), Steve Moxon (a Home Office
official), and Anwar Rizvi (an asylum court interpreter) whose leaks about
asylum policy problems caused severe Government embarrassment?

C Craig Murray, the British ambassador to Uzbekistan, who drew attention to
human rights abuses there?

D Robert McCoy, the EU official who exposed abuse of travel expenses by members
of the EU's Committee of the Regions?

E Marta Andreasen, the whistleblower who since 1999 has drawn attention to the
EU accounting system's vulnerability to fraud?

8 Mind your language

What do the following up-to-the-minute words and phrases mean?

A Phishing

B Chav

C Hasbian

D Glurge

E Croydon facelift

9 On the brawl

A Who was fined pounds 40,000 for a fracas outside a Munich nightclub?

B Whose summer barbecue overheated?

C Who was actually hit by the pizza during "Pizzagate"?

D Why did a famous shopper get a nasty surprise when her more famous fiance
threw an 18th birthday party for her?

E And who didn't smile for the cameras outside Pangaea?

10 Damages, damages

According to Lord Falconer, compensation culture costs Britain pounds 10bn a
year. Which of the following plaintiffs won their cases?

A The teenager who lost part of a finger after slipping on a wet lavatory floor?

B The medical student who sued the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme after a
50-mile hike gave her sore feet?

C The cash-and-carry shelf-stacker who sought pounds 200,000 damages for a
chronic back injury sustained while carrying a crate (but was subsequently
photographed somersaulting from a diving-board)?

D The woman who claimed damages for invasion of privacy after Nottingham City
Council put her under video surveillance and was thus able to film her attacking
a neighbour?

E The Girl Guide who claimed damages from the Guides after singeing her fingers
cooking sausages.

11 Country life

Why did these villages make headlines?

A Cottenham

B Yoxall

C Kingham

D Tickhill

E Bray

12 The price of love

A Whose divorce settlement prompted the judge in the case to observe that she
had "scooped the pools"?

B Who sold pounds 40m of his firm's shares to pay for his divorce?

C Which Hollywood star paid pounds 50m to end his 18-year marriage?

D Which singer's estranged wife wanted pounds 165,000 a month for "clothes,
shoes, dermatology, plastic surgery, gifts, therapist, vitamins and hair
removal"?

E Which briefly married celebrity couple turned down a multimillion- dollar
offer to conduct their sensational divorce on a reality TV programme?

13 A nasty taste

A Who accused a customer who had just spent pounds 600 on a meal at his
restaurant of stealing a silver spoon?

B How much did an art sensation earn from the remains of his restaurant?

C Whose infernal culinary show led (predictably) to a brawl and a substantial
damages payment?

D Which chef denounced other celebrity chefs thus: "They use dreadful words.
They throw out their customers. They have friends in the media like Michael
Winner. I'm reluctant to mention him, but he is a pig. I feel sorry for those
young men... who have chosen a way of life that is bad."

E Which chef's restaurant scored the lowest possible rating for food in Harden's
London Restaurants? V

14 The beautiful game

Identify the speaker and subject:

A "He was a master of the art of love-making. He went on for ages, and I was in
ecstasy."

B "He is a very satisfying lover, very intimate, very intimate. He knows how to
please."

C "It was clothes off, get the action done and out. I felt like a whore. Really
cheap, used."

D "Next time it will be ****er and **tter and all ****** you... and all over
your **** and ****."

E "He is a cold-hearted cad and I wish I'd never had an affair with him."

15 Health check

Medical experts pronounced on the health effects of various substances and
activities. Which of these were said to be good for us, and which bad?

A Eating pizza twice a week.

B Stretching before exercise.

C Drinking four cups of coffee a day.

D Eating chocolate.

E Taking the contraceptive pill.

16 Cotton-wool culture

Which of these statements is untrue?

A In March, an annual pancake race in Okehampton, Devon, was cancelled because
organisers could not afford to insure it.

B Also in March, backstroke swimming was banned at Daisyfield pool in Blackburn,
Lancashire, because of the danger of collisions.

C In May, householders in Skipton, North Yorkshire, were banned from hanging out
their washing, on health and safety grounds.

D In June, parents at Crudwell primary school in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, were
banned on health and safety grounds from baking cakes for fundraising.

E In August, hanging baskets were banned in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk as a
potential danger to pedestrians.

17 Broadcast news

A Who told Tony Blair that his appointment of Michael Grade as chairman of the
BBC was the "worst public appointment" he had made?

B Who told BBC staff: "Do give me a shout if you see me walking around. I'm the
one with the red socks"?

C Which programme was told that it "should move from a remote, pedestal position
of lecturer' to a touch it, reach it, feel it guide'"?

D What is to be reduced by 2,900?

E What was BBC1's share of total viewing figures in 2004?

F Whose unscripted fight caused the police to be called to the scene of a
television programme?

G What unscheduled TV appearance lasted 1.7 seconds and provoked 500,000
complaints and a pounds 300,000 fine?

H What drew 53 million US viewers on 6 May?

18 Rocket science

Using your knowledge of 2004's academic studies, say which of these statements
are true and which false.

A Larger portions could be a major factor in the increase in obesity.

B Commuting to work can be more stressful than going into battle.

C The way to get someone to agree with you is to touch them on the upper arm.

D The football offside rule is impossible for referees to enforce.

E The world's most effective chat-up line is: "Get your coat, you've pulled."

19 High life

A Whose marriage lasted 55 hours?

B Who is Chelsy Davy?

C And who is Kate Middleton?

D What did Nicole Kidman find in common with Elizabeth Hurley?

E Who told an X-Factor contender: "My advice is: put a rocket up your arse and
light it"?

F Who was told by Prince Charles: "You look great now you've put weight on"?

G Who was it who said of George Michael: "There seems to be a deep- rooted
unhappiness in his life"?

H Who claimed that Elton John had "stuck his tongue down my throat, which you
wouldn't expect"?

I Who turned up at a premiere with "cupping" marks on her shoulders?

J Who was photographed on the beach with strange bandages on her knees?

20 Number crunching

A What famous shirt went for pounds 28,000?

B Who paid pounds 28,000 for an artwork created from a ton of old junk?

C Who was reported to be earning pounds 28,000 a speech through a Washington
speakers' agency?

D What sold for $ 28,000, despite being 10 years past its sell-by date?

E What was bought for pounds 28,000 by a syndicate of gourmets, but went off
before they could eat it?

List-toppers

Scarcely a week went by in 2004 without the publication of some kind of
quasi-definitive list - best, worst, richest, most eligible, and so forth. Each
of these pictures depicts the "winner" of one such list. Can you identify each
of these winners and the subject of the list they topped?

Name that face

These people all made headlines in 2004. Put names to the faces and explain why
each of them was in the news this year.

SPECIALIST SECTIONS

1 World affairs

A How many countries held elections in 2004? In this context, what is the
significance of Dr Mikhail Saakashvili?

B Which of these was 2004 not the "International Year of": Technology; Rice;
Amphibians; Commemorating the Struggle Against Slavery and its Abolition;
Education by Sports?

C Who said: "I am a symbol of the will of freedom. You can't break the human
spirit"? And on what momentous occasion did he say it?

D Who told a crowd of 30,000: "I ask your forgiveness for having fallen"? And
what was he talking about?

E Name two high-profile politicians photographed wearing bandannas.

F And two who were spotted wearing ponchos.

G Who won but refused the fruits of victory?

H Which are the member countries of the new expanded EU? How many of the 25
states can you name without checking?

I Who wrote (from prison) a letter complaining: "Our situation is not good and
it is very URGENT... We need heavy influence of the sort that... Smelly,
Scratcher can provide and it needs to be used now"? In which country's affairs
had he unwisely become embroiled? And who are "Smelly" and "Scratcher" alleged
to have been?

J What controversial measure did the French National Assembly take on 10
February?

2 Hot dates

A Which malt drink celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2004?

B What moment of romantic perfection was 20 years old this Valentine's Day?

C The centenaries of which two giants of the ballet world were celebrated this
year?

D The 25th anniversary of what seismic political event was marked on 4 May?

E And the 10th anniversary of what scarcely less seismic political event was
marked on 12 May?

F Which of the following were not invented 100 years ago: tea bag; ice-cream
cone; wrist-watch; paper plates; yo-yo?

G Which epoch-making sporting achievement was 50 years old on 6 May?

H And which was 30 years old on 30 October?

I Which sculpture had its 500th anniversary this year?

J What was declared a year ago on 2 May?

3 No longer with us

A Of whom did Nelson Mandela say: "He was like a surrealistic painting. He was
complex, deep, superficial, rational, irrational, cold, warm"?

B Which freshly deceased columnist was described by The Guardian as "the epitome
of all that is most shitty about British middle-market journalism"?

C Who was described by Michael Parkinson as "loveable and impossible, wise and
silly, attractive and appalling - he was a pickle of a man"?

D Who was described by Andy Kershaw as "the most important figure in British
music since the birth of rock'n'roll. Full stop."

E In whose condolence book did Margaret Thatcher write: "Well done, good and
faithful servant"?

F Whose death prompted David Blunkett to wonder: "Is it too early to open a
bottle?"

G Whose death was described by The Independent on Sunday as "the ultimate
deconstruction"?

H Whose death was said to have "opened the gates of hell"?

I Who was described by Bernardo Bertolucci as "an angel as a man, a monster as
an actor"?

J Who was described by John Kerry as "truly America's hero"?

4 British politics

A Who said: "Even if I've never been away, it's time to show I'm back"? And
where had he been?

B Who admitted that "some days I wonder if I'll ever do anything meaningful and
worthwhile again"?

C Who spurned Loch Fyne's oysters? What did he eat instead? And what reason did
he give?

D What was "about the only thing" that Tony Blair has done "that any of my kids
have considered worthy of comment"?

E Who won a "clarification" from The Times in which the paper conceded that he
"was unwell and that he did not drink any alcohol on the morning of the Budget"?

F Who said: "I am longing to iron a shirt again and get back to the normal
things"?

G Who said: "I have done nothing wrong"?

H Who said: "I have no doubt at all that he will be exonerated"?

I Whose need to spend more time with his family faded after 15 months?

J What failed for want of photography?

5 Sport

A Who took 776 minutes to break his own world record, 10 years after setting it,
against the same team, on the same ground? And what were the record, the team
and the ground?

B What remarkable achievement by Albert Hill was finally equalled after 84 years
- and by whom?

C How many of England's World Cup-winning rugby union team were still in the
side that played South Africa a year later (including substitutes)? And can you
name them?

D What was the name of the horse whose failure to win at Lingfield in March
resulted in a 21-day ban for Kieren Fallon (and led to a mass of other trouble)?

E Who shed buckets after winning by 30cm?

F Who beat Tim Henman at Wimbledon this year?

G Best Mate won his third Gold Cup this year, equalling Arkle's Sixties heroics.
Name the only other horse to taste Gold Cup glory more than once.

H Which British heavyweight knocked out Mike Tyson?

I Which British heavyweight dropped out of a pounds 60,000 world title showdown
complaining of exhaustion?

J "I am sure some people do not think I have the brains to be that clever. But I
do." Which sporting icon was talking? What was he talking about? And what had he
overlooked?

6 Business

A Which engine was valued at $ 25bn?

B Who softened the blow of a failed retail shopping expedition by paying himself
a pounds 650m dividend?

C Who took a pounds 1.1bn dividend - and was revealed as Britain's richest man?

D How did Warren Buffett hire someone richer than himself?

E Who described whom as "a bunch of overcharging rapists"?

7 The arts

A What high-carbohydrate turkey was described as "the most witless and repulsive
British comedy ever"?

B Whose high-fat and high-protein exercise in indulgence was a supersize hit?

C Which high-saccharine sequel was described by The Independent's reviewer as
"less a sequel than a remake... At some point you have to ask: how little are
the fans prepared to settle for"?

D Which musical celebration of showbusiness incompetence lost its leading man
but proved a triumph none the less?

E Whose Wildean musical was characterised more by brevity than by wit?

F Why did Hell burn in N1?

G To which European family did the most fashionable band of the year allude?

H What was released nearly 40 years late (but was still felt by many to be ahead
of its time)?

I Who fell out about the alleged offer of a pounds 200m gift?

J Which eternally youthful rock dinosaur required emergency heart surgery?

K How did the Royal Academy become linked to a railway station and a Cornish
tourist attraction?

8 Literature

A Of which much-talked-about works of 2004 are these the opening sentences: 1)
"Some years ago there was in the city of York a society of magicians." 2) "Fear
presides over these memories, perpetual fear." 3) "The people who remained in
this place have often asked themselves why it was that Ibrahim went mad."?

B Who won: the 2004 Man Booker prize; the Whitbread prize (overall); the Orange
prize; and the Nobel prize for Literature?

C Which long-awaited publication was 62 million words long, cost pounds 6,500,
and, some critics said, was full of errors?

D Name the authors of these bestselling autobiographies: Gazza: My Story; Paula:
My Story So Far; My Olympic Ten Days: Kelly Holmes.

E Who wrote the year's bestselling book?

9 Fashion

A Of whom did Vivienne Westwood say: "He hasn't got a clue what culture is and
his dress sense is appalling"?

B Of whom did Sonia Rykiel say: "She dresses badly, in the same way as the
Queen"?

C Why did Karl Lagerfeld have a hissy fit about British women?

D To what foodstuff did Jean Paul Gaultier devote an entire exhibition this
year?

E Who "got invited to a Christian Dior show and I cried"?

F Who said: "Imagine finishing the night in bed with a man, but later wanting to
slip away without waking him. A zip isn't really the best idea"?

10 Who said?

A "I misunderstood what we had. I misunderstood that someone could do this, not
just to me, but to a little one as well."

B "I take full responsibility and apologise for any information given in good
faith that has subsequently turned out to be wrong."

C "I am very concerned about this semi-political idea that the compensation
culture and culture of human rights is a bad thing. On the contrary, I think it
is very important."

D "I've loved being here, I do all my own shopping, I go out and get takeaways,
rent videos, go to the cinema... just basically anything I want, really."

E "What is wrong with everyone nowadays? Why do they all seem to think they are
qualified to do things far beyond their technical capabilities?"

F "This is all theatre. The real criminal is Bush."

G "What enjoyment does a single mother of three living in a council estate get?
The only enjoyment sometimes is having a cigarette."

H "My advice would be, if you want to pursue a career in the music business,
don't."

I "Alastair Campbell made it clear to Mr Scarlett on behalf of the Prime
Minister that 10 Downing Street wanted the dossier to be worded to make as
strong a case as possible in relation to the threat posed by Saddam Hussein's
WMD, and 10 Downing Street made written suggestions to Mr Scarlett as to changes
in the wording of the draft dossier which would strengthen it."

J "We believe that it was a serious weakness that the JIC's warnings on the
limitations of the intelligence underlying some of its judgements were not made
sufficiently clear in the dossier."

Match the animal to the news story

The only news stories that anyone really pays any attention to are the animal
ones. But how many have stuck in your mind? Test yourself by saying which of the
animals shown...

A Shared a New York apartment with a tiger (and a human family)?

B Did a runner from a Galashiels slaughterhouse?

C Was found passed out at the Baker Lake Resort, Washington state, after
drinking 36 cans of beer?

D Was revealed to be the world's most monogamous creature?

E Received an award for bravery?

F Had its ears insured for pounds 30,000?

G Won a beauty contest in Croatia?

H Survived being sucked up by a vacuum cleaner?

I Finally had a haircut after evading capture for six years?

J Was revealed to have a vocabulary of 950 words?

K Was identified as the killer of Pharos, the Queen's favourite corgi?

L Was "pleasured" on television by a C-list celebrity?

Spectator sport

To which of the people in our picture gallery do the following descriptions
apply? (Answers may include more than one name.)

A Who wasn't involved in a much-publicised sex scandal in 2004?

B Who was involved in a much-publicised financial scandal?

C Who has never been employed by The Spectator or its owners?

D Who slept with the boss?

E Who hasn't slept with Rod Liddle?

F Who had 10 sacks of manure delivered to the Spectator's offices after turning
"into a complete Fatal Attraction bunny boiler"?

G Whose need for Viagra was exposed to the world at large by his then wife?

H Was dismissed by a judge with the words: "It became impossible for me to
credit his word"?

I Who began an affair within three months of getting married?

J Who dismissed allegations of marital infidelity as "an inverted pyramid of
piffle"?

K Who made a humiliating public apology?

L Who was urged by a current or former home secretary to "keep it up"?

M Who was sacked in 2004?

N Who was described in The Spectator as a "fanatical supporter of the dinner
party"?

O Who allegedly had an application fast- tracked by a home secretary?

P Who hasn't been screwed by David Blunkett?

Quiz of the Year 2004: Answers

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE

1 The law of the land

A: banned. B: legal. C: banned. D: legal. E: banned (except in reasonable
self-defence). F: legal. G: don't know (it is arguable that, if the Serious
Organised Crime and Police Bill becomes law in its current form, such
disparagement will come under the definition of "using words in a manner that
incites religious hatred"). H: legal. I: legal - unless the Government decides
that your demonstration constitutes a "nuisance". J: illegal.

2 Reckonings

A: Lord Saville's inquiry into Bloody Sunday. B: the Scottish Parliament at
Holyrood. C: Britain's contribution to the war in Iraq. D: bringing the 2012
Olympic Games to London. E: the EU constitution.

3 The afterlife of Di

A: They were the same person, Michael Burgess. B: the Diana Memorial Fountain in
Kensington Gardens, London. C: pounds 5m. D: Paul Burrell appeared in both. E:
The bodyguard was Barry Mannakee, and the video was made by Peter Settelen.

4 Rewards

A: Cherie Blair. B: Piers Morgan, sacked as the editor of the Daily Mirror. C:
John Scarlett, the head of the Joint Intelligence Committee when the dossiers
that persuaded Parliament to support the invasion of Iraq were being prepared,
subsequently promoted to head of MI6. D: Sir Philip Watts, former chief
executive of Shell. E: Gerard Houllier, the former Liverpool manager. F:
Professor Sir Kumar Bhattacharyya.

5 Nature notes

A: Boscastle, Cornwall, struck by freak floods in August. B: Charley, Frances,
Ivan and Jeanne. C: assuming that this year was typical, 15,000 were killed by
hunts and 100,000 by traffic (the other 80,000 were shot). D: the cat, the dog
and the rabbit. E: 24 were saved, 250 were culled, and the rest carried on as
per normal.

6 Foot in mouth disease

A: President George Bush. B: Godfrey Bloom, Ukip's newly elected MEP for
Yorkshire and the Humber. C: Rocco Buttiglione, incoming European Commissioner.
D: anonymous Spectator leader-writer. E: Robert Kilroy-Silk, aspiring Ukip
politician, Sunday Express columnist and - then - television talk-show host.

7 Whistleblowers

A: he was sacked. B: they were all sacked. C: he was recalled and then, when he
complained, suspended. D: he was sacked. E: she was sacked.

8 Mind your language

A: the practice of sending bogus e-mails, purporting to come from institutions
such as banks, that persuade the recipients to give away sensitive information
about their bank accounts, etc. B: an urban lout given to wearing cheap
jewellery. C: a former lesbian. D: to bombard someone with (seductive) text
messages. E: the alleged practice of bunching up one's hair so tightly that it
smoothes away facial wrinkles.

9 On the brawl

A: Liam Gallagher. B: Aslef (police were called to the railway workers' union
event after a fight in which a female guest was knocked unconscious; three
senior officials, and three other members of staff, were subsequently suspended
from their posts). C: Sir Alex Ferguson (although some witnesses still insist
that it was soup). D: Coleen McLoughlin's party ended in a mass brawl between
members of her family and members of Wayne Rooney's family. E: Prince Harry, who
pushed a camera into a photographer's face on leaving the nightclub (in
Piccadilly) at 3am.

10 Damages, damages

A: won pounds 12,500. B: lost. C: lost. D: won pounds 11,000. E: won pounds
3,500.

11 Country life

A: site of the UK's most controversial travellers' site. B: the Staffordshire
village that suffered a campaign of persecution from animal-rights activists
enraged by the local guinea-pig farm; the village tried to establish a legal
"exclusion zone" to keep out the campaigners. C: named the best village in
Britain to live in by Country Life magazine. D: the Yorkshire village where a
legal challenge to the church's right to ring its bells every four hours was
withdrawn after much controversy. E: Heston Blumenthal's restaurant there, The
Fat Duck, was given a third Michelin star, an honour shared by only two other UK
restaurants, one of which - the Roux brothers' Waterside Inn - is also in Bray.

12 The price of love

A: Karen Parlour, awarded 37 per cent of her footballer husband's pounds 1.2m-
a-year earnings. B: Stephen Marks, founder of French Connection. C: Harrison
Ford, who divorced Melissa Mathison. D: Lionel Richie. E: Liza Minnelli and
David Gest.

13 A nasty taste

A: Tom Aikens. B: pounds 11m - the proceeds from the sale of Damien Hirst
artefacts associated with Pharmacy. C: Gordon Ramsay's (a fracas in the US
version of Hell's Kitchen led to an out-of-court settlement of nearly pounds
70,000 to an injured contestant). D: Michel Roux. E: Jamie Oliver, whose 15 has
fallen on hard times.

14 The beautiful game

A: Faria Alam on Sven Goran Eriksson. B: Rebecca Loos on her alleged affair with
David Beckham. C: Rebecca Loos, again, on her alleged affair with Beckham. D:
Alleged text message from Beckham to Rebecca Loos. E: Faria Alam on the former
FA chief executive Mark Palios.

15 Health check

A: good (reduces risk of heart disease). B: bad (increases risk of injury). C:
good (improves memory and reduces risk of diabetes, cirrhosis, several cancers,
Parkinson's disease and tooth decay); also bad (increases risk of high blood
pressure, rheumatoid arthritis, heart arrhythmia, migraine and miscarriage). D:
good (protects against strokes and coughs and increases life expectancy); also
bad (increases risk of heart disease - and obesity). E: good (unless you have
high blood pressure).

16 Cotton-wool culture

A: initially cancelled, the race was reinstated at the last minute when a local
broker agreed to insure it. The others are all true.

17 Broadcast news

A: John Birt. B: Michael Grade. C: Panorama. D: the BBC's workforce. E: 24.67
per cent. F: Emma Greenwood, Victor Ebuwa, Nadia Almada, Marco Sabba and Jason
Cowan in Big Brother. G: the brief exposure of Janet Jackson's breast during the
Superbowl. H: the final episode of Friends.

18 Rocket science

A, B, C, D: all true. E: false. Scientists in Japan have concluded that the
world's most effective chat-up line is in fact: "This time next year, let's be
laughing together."

19 High life

A: Britney Spears and Jason Allen Alexander. B: Prince Harry's girlfriend. C:
Prince William's ex-girlfriend (do try to keep up). D: Steve Bing. E: Sharon
Osbourne. F: Geri Halliwell. G: Sir Elton John. H: Pamela Anderson. I: Gwyneth
Paltrow. J: Nicole Kidman.

20 Number crunching

A: The No 19 England shirt with which Paul Gascoigne dried his tears during the
1990 World Cup. B: Charles Saatchi (the work in question, by Brian Griffiths,
consisted of bits of old furniture and bric-a-brac found in junk shops and
skips). C: the Duchess of York. D: a toasted cheese sandwich, sold on eBay, that
reportedly carried an image of the Virgin Mary, and which allegedly brought luck
to gamblers. E: a rare white truffle, bought by a group of regular diners at
Zafferano in London and stored in the fridge there by chef Andy Needham - to no
avail.

SPECIALIST SECTIONS

1 World affairs

A: 73; he won the first, for the presidency of Georgia. B: amphibians. C:
Mordechai Vanunu, Israel's nuclear whistleblower, on his release from prison
after nearly 18 years. D: Fidel Castro, after falling and fracturing his knee.
E. Silvio Berlusconi and Boris Johnson. F: George W Bush and Vladimir Putin. G:
Sonia Gandhi. H: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, United Kingdom. I: Simon Mann; Equatorial Guinea; Ely Calil and Sir Mark
Thatcher (who both strongly deny any involvement in Mann's activities). J: It
voted to pass a law banning religious items and clothing from schools.

2 Hot dates

A: Ovaltine. B: Torvill and Dean's perfect sixes at the Winter Olympics in
Sarajevo. C: George Balanchine and Frederick Ashton. D: Margaret Thatcher
becoming prime minister. E: the death of John Smith, Tony Blair's predecessor as
leader of the Labour Party. F: the yo-yo, which is only 75. G: Roger Bannister
running a mile in 3min 59.4sec. H: the "Rumble in the Jungle" - Muhammad Ali's
world heavyweight title defeat of George Foreman in Zaire. I: Michelangelo's
David. J: an end to "major hostilities" in Iraq (announced by President Bush).

3 No longer with us

A: Yasser Arafat. B: Lynda Lee-Potter. C: Brian Clough. D: John Peel. E: Ronald
Reagan. F: Harold Shipman. G: Jacques Derrida. H: Sheikh Ahmed Yassin. I: Marlon
Brando. J: Christopher Reeve.

4 British politics

A: Tony Blair, returning from an operation to correct a heart arrhythmia. B:
Alastair Campbell. C: John Prescott, who ate kippers instead - because "I'm Old
Labour". D: appearing on The Simpsons. E: Charles Kennedy. F: Betsy Duncan Smith
(after learning that her husband had been officially cleared of misusing his
parliamentary allowances). G: David Blunkett. H: Tony Blair. I: Alan Milburn. J:
a power-sharing deal between Sinn Fein and the Ulster Unionists.

5 Sport

A: Brian Lara scored 400, beating his own record of 375, in a Test against
England at the Recreation Ground, Antigua. B: winning gold in the 800m and 1500m
in the same Olympics, a feat finally matched by Kelly Holmes. C: 9; Lewsey,
Robinson, Greenwood, Tindall, Cohen, Thompson, Kay, Corry, Moody. D: Ballinger
Ridge. E: Matthew Pinsent, winning his fourth Olympic gold medal. F: Mario
Ancic. G: L'Escargot. H: Danny Williams. I: The 26-stone darts player Andy "The
Viking" Fordham, in a play-off against Phil "The Power" Taylor. J: David
Beckham; the fact that he had deliberately got himself booked for a foul in
England's match against Wales; and the fact that, by boasting about it, he would
(not very cleverly) get himself into trouble.

6 Business

A: Google. B: Philip Green. C: Lakshmi Mittal. D: he appointed Bill Gates to the
board of Berkshire Hathaway. E: Michael O'Leary was laying into the airports
operator BAA.

7 The arts

A: Sex Lives of the Potato Men. B: Morgan Spurlock. C: Bridget Jones: The Edge
of Reason. D: The Producers. E: Mike Read's; his musical, Oscar Wilde, was
accused of "exquisite awfulness" and closed after only one night. F: The work by
the Chapman brothers was among art valued at about pounds 60m destroyed by a
fire at the Momart warehouse in east London. G: The original Franz Ferdinand was
a Hapsburg. H: Brian Wilson's Smile. I: Charles Saatchi and Nicholas Serota -
the former claimed that the latter had spurned his offer to give his art
collection to the Tate. J: David Bowie. K: Sir Nicholas Grimshaw, the designer
of the Eden Project and the Eurostar terminal at Waterloo, became the Royal
Academy's new president.

8 Literature

A: 1) Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, by Susanna Clarke; 2) The Plot Against
America, by Philip Roth; 3) Birds Without Wings, by Louis de Bernieres. B: Alan
Hollinghurst; Mark Haddon; Andrea Levy; Elfriede Jelinek. C: the Oxford
Dictionary of National Biography. D: Hunter Davies; David Walsh; Richard Lewis.
E: Dan Brown.

9 Fashion

A: Tony Blair. B: Cherie Blair. C: He felt they were too fat to fit into his
clothes, when "what I created was fashion for slim, slender people". D: Bread.
E: Gwen Stefani. F: Diane von Furstenberg on her wrap dresses.

10 Who said?

A: David Blunkett. B: Tony Blair. C: Cherie Blair. D: Prince William. E: Prince
Charles. F: Saddam Hussein. G: John Reid, the Health Secretary. H: Simon Cowell.
I: the Hutton report. J: the Butler report.

Picture quiz answers

Name that face

1. Angelos Charisteas, scored the winning goal in Euro 2004 final

2. Nadia Almada, Big Brother winner

3. Gene Robinson, openly gay Bishop of New Hampshire

4. Stuart Mackenzie, private charged with staging fake photos of alleged torture
of Iraqis, published by the Daily Mirror

5. Steve Moxon, immigration whistleblower, lost his job

6. Cornelius Horan, ex-priest who interrupted Olympic marathon

7. Mark Palios, FA chief executive

8. Katharine Gun, GCHQ whistleblower

9. John Scarlett, appointed head of MI6 after weapons dossier controversy

10. Lord Hutton, led inquiry into government scientist David Kelly's death

11. Lord Butler, led inquiry into pre-war intelligence

12. Bradley Wiggins, cyclist and triple Olympic medallist

13. Betsy Duncan Smith, of Betsygate

14. Tony and Michelle Meadows, had pounds 384,000 debt wiped out by a court

15. Urs Maier, Swiss referee who disallowed Sol Campbell's goal in Euro 2004

16. Annetta Flanigan, held hostage in Afghanistan

17. Alan Hollinghurst, Man Booker prize winner

18. Faria Alam, FA secretary, had affairs with Sven-Goran Eriksson and Palios

19. Mark Thompson, took over from Greg Dyke as BBC director general

20. Sir Alan Budd, led Blunkett inquiry

21. Leoncia Casalme, nanny of Kimberley Quinn, Blunkett's former lover

22. Jason Hatch, Fathers-4-Justice campaigner who scaled Buckingham Palace

List-toppers

1. Pete Doherty and Carl Barat, world's coolest stars (NME)

2. Marcel Duchamp's Fountain, most influential work of modern art (Gordon's Gin
survey of 500 leading art figures)

3. Clement Attlee, most successful British prime minister (Mori/University of
Leeds)

4. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, greatest film (Empire)

5. Austin Allegro, worst car (Auto Express)

6. Only Fools and Horses, Britain's best sitcom (BBC)

7. The A650 Bingley Relief Road, Britain's best public building, 2004
(Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment)

8. Vieux Boulogne, world's smelliest cheese (Cranfield University)

9. What's Going On, Marvin Gaye, best black album (New Nation)

10. Tiger, world's most popular beast (Animal Planet survey)

11. Roman Abramovich, Britain's richest man (Sunday Times), since overtaken by
businessman Lakshmi Mittal

12. Audrey Hepburn, most beautiful woman (Evian)

13. Jemima Khan, Britain's most eligible woman (Tatler)

14. Kerry McFadden, best reality TV star (Daily Star)

15. Tommy Cooper, best British comedian (Reader's Digest)

16. Marlon Brando as Vito Corleone in The Godfather, best movie character
(Premiere magazine)

17. Carry on Columbus, worst British film (The Sunday Telegraph)

18. Hugh Grant, Britain's most eligible bachelor (Tatler)

Match the animal to the story

A: 2, an alligator that lived in the flat as a family pet

B: 7, Houdini the wild boar

C: 5, a black bear

D: 11, the prairie vole

E: 6, Lulu the one-eyed kangaroo from near Melbourne, who put an unconscious
farmer in the recovery position before raising the alarm

F: 4, basset hound, Jack (owned by Carsten Baus of Fulda, Germany)

G: 10, Lucy the goat (owned by Ivan Perko of Most Rasa)

H: 8, a fat hamster

I: 1, Shrek the New Zealand sheep (shorn by Pete Casserley in April)

J: 12, N'Kisi the African grey parrot from New York

K: 3, Princess Anne's bull terrier, Dotty (and not, as previously reported, her
other bull terrier, Florence)

L: 9, Sam the pig, masturbated by Rebecca Loos on Channel 5's The Farm

Spectator sport

The people in the pictures are: 1. Alicia Monckton. 2: The Barclay brothers. 3
Simon Hoggart 4. Petronella Wyatt. 5. Kimberly Quinn. 6. Boris Johnson. 7.
Andrew Neil. 8. Rod Liddle. 9. Barbara Amiel. 10. Conrad Black. 11. David
Blunkett. 12. Rachel Royce

A: 2, 7, 9, 10. B: 9, 10, 11. C: 2, 10, 11. D: 1, 3, 4, 9. E: (as far as we
know) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11. F: 12. G: 8. H: 10. I: 5, 8. J: 6. K: 3, 6,
11. L: 6. M: 6, 9, 10. N: 9, 10. O: 4 (a visa, for her nanny), 5 (a passport;
the home secretary in her case was Michael Howard). P: none (that's right - we
all have ...)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               21 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 23, 2004, Thursday

UKIP poll win cost millions

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 99 words


The UK Independence Party spent more than Labour on the European elections in
June, when it won 12 seats.

The UKIP, which has since been beset by in-fighting, spent £2.3 million on its
campaign, compared with £1.7 million by Labour, official figures revealed
yesterday.

The Tories spent £3.1 million, demonstrating that in this case money meant
electoral success. They won the parliamentary election with 26.7 per cent of the
vote and 27 MEPs. Labour took 22.6 per cent of the vote and 19 seats. The Lib
Dems spent almost £1.2 million and came fourth, also with 12 seats.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 21, 2004, Tuesday

Tory party sacks Falmouth association leaders

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 283 words

VIRTUALLY the entire leadership of a Conservative association was sacked
yesterday for allegedly promoting the UK Independence Party.

The party's ruling board sought to end a series of rows involving Tories in the
marginal seat of Falmouth and Camborne by dismissing the local chairman and four
other officers. A sixth officer, Mike Varney, a local councillor, was sacked for
denouncing Ashley Crossley, the Tories' prospective parliamentary candidate, as
a "sanctimonious shit" and speaking out to the media over the association's
troubles.

However, Mr Varney was cleared of making an anti-homosexual remark about Mr
Crossley, who survived an attempt in September to deselect him after Michael
Howard, the Tory leader, pledged his personal support.

The Cornish constituency, now held by Labour with a slim 4,527 majority but once
represented by Sebastian Coe, is one of the Tories' key target seats.

However, Tory hopes of regaining the seat have been hit by a series of local
rows.

Yesterday, the Conservative Party board announced that the association chairman,
Quentin Peck, treasurer Dorothy Smith and three other officers - Mike Burden,
John Stanley and William Harrell - had promoted or sought to promote Ukip's
interests.

They were disqualified indefinitely from holding office in the local association
or from standing for election under Tory colours in the area.

Mr Varney was barred from holding any office in any Tory association and from
standing for any elected public office as a Conservative candidate for at least
a year. He said last night that he would resign from the Conservative Party and
stand as an independent in next May's Cornwall county council elections.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               23 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 21, 2004, Tuesday

No future as a Conservative Spy

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features Pg. 17

LENGTH: 238 words

A glossy pamphlet, Winning the Youth Vote - published by former Tory treasurer
Lord Ashcroft - arrives on Spy's desk.

Based on a survey of the party's MPs and candidates, it makes various proposals
for how the Conservatives should be going about winning the support of
first-time voters.

Not that the document is particularly wordy - the text is broken up by numerous
photos of attractive female members of Conservative Future.

However, one of the bright young things featured, 23-year-old Annabelle Fuller,
is not especially enamoured of it all. She resigned from the party six months
ago and has been working as a researcher for the UK Independence Party in
Brussels since September.

"I find it quite amusing that a document aimed at attracting young people to the
Tories included a picture of one who was so disillusioned that she left and
started working for another party," she tells me.

With his blousons and assiduously pressed jeans, few of us could ever have
doubted the style credentials of George W Bush. So it comes as no surprise to
see him waxing lyrical about the trendy iPod in an interview with People
magazine.

"I use it mainly for when I go out and ride my mountain bike," says Dubya. "I
crank it up. Van Morrison and Linda Gail Lewis are on there. You Win Again is a
great album, by the way." Spy can only imagine the headache this unauthorised
endorsement has caused iPod's branding division.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               24 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 20, 2004

Interview: 'The cabinet looks like damaged goods': The Liberal Democrats offer
the only true alternative to an illiberal government, their leader argues

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1061 words


British voters face a choice between two hardened governing parties "locked
together in their illiberalism" and a Liberal Democrat opposition committed to a
truly liberal agenda, Charles Kennedy declares today.

A week of policy chaos on the Labour and Conservative benches - culminating in
David Blunkett's resignation drama - shows that Tony Blair's government is now
"imploding" and Michael Howard has finally "unravelled", he argues.

In an end-of-term interview with the Guardian the Lib Dem leader dismisses the
Tory U-turn to vote in favour of ID cards and urges Charles Clarke, the new home
secretary, to "pause for reflection" before pressing ahead either with ID cards
or renewal of the anti-terrorism legislation condemned by the law lords on
Thursday.

The politician who used to pride himself on appealing to the "anti-politics"
mood of the country now admits that there is a risk in the current state of
voter apathy. "If you don't vote you can now see what happens," Mr Kennedy
warns. "We now have two parties, each accustomed to being in power, locked
together on their illiberal agenda, against us, the one party which is clearly
still pursuing a liberal agenda."

Just as Michael Howard's latest wobble gives the Lib Dems a major opportunity
"to compete with them for the libertarian agenda" and to snatch second place
after Labour at the coming general election, so Mr Blunkett's resignation and
Tuesday's ministerial confusion over the mental capacity bill (when an important
letter went missing) also highlights Labour's decay.

"I think it's now accepted that Michael Howard has quite simply unravelled,
that's been clear for a while. But the government seems to be imploding. Blair's
judgment was called into question over Iraq, but now domestic strains are
showing," Mr Kennedy warns.

"The way he handled the Blunkett case again shows that his judgment must now be
questioned. Even the business of parliament itself is a shambles. With a
three-figure majority, how can they create a shambles like the mental capacity
bill?"

The scenario raises Lib Dems hopes that they can "leapfrog from third place to
first place" in Labour-held seats as well as Tory ones on polling day.

"In 1997 Labour jumped from third place to first in many places, overtaking us
in the process. We'll see quite a lot of votes churning this time too. And the
fact that Labour is peddling the line 'Vote Lib Dem and you'll elect a
Conservative' quite so hard makes me suspicious. It's not true."

So confident are the Lib Dems that, with just 55 MPs, they are packing as much
punch as their bigger rivals at Westminster that Mr Kennedy has written to the
cabinet secretary, Sir Andrew Turnbull, requesting equal access to Whitehall's
senior departmental officials for advice on policy in the run-up to the
election.

The Douglas-Home convention, dating from the 1960s, allows the main opposition
party to have formal consultations with permanent secretaries who will by now
have started examining their early pledges in case of an election upset. But the
Lib Dems, who now call their own team a "shadow cabinet", have only ever had
brief and informal talks.

"I have now made a formal request for equal treatment with the Conservatives,"
says Mr Kennedy, who boasts that his top lieutenants - Menzies Campbell, Mark
Oaten and Vince Cable - "outclass what the Conservatives have to offer and are
more than a match for the government".

As the big beasts of the Blair cabinet, Jack Straw, Charles Clarke and Gordon
Brown would happily accept that challenge. But recent events have emboldened
45-year-old Mr Kennedy in his sixth year as party leader, not least the former
home secretary's criticism of his colleagues.

"David Blunkett's remarks may not have any direct effect. But I'm beginning to
feel it adds up to a sense that the cabinet are not just divided within
themselves on policy, they are riven with personal differences so that they
can't get on with the big picture. They are looking like very damaged goods."

For Mr Kennedy 2005 is the year of delivery in more ways than the election
result. His wife, Sarah, is expecting their first child in April. "That puts the
election in some sort of perspective," he says with evident pleasure, despite
being constantly teased about nappies and late nights.

The Kennedys will spend Christmas at the family's converted croft outside Fort
William, which boundary changes have now placed inside his sprawling Highland
constituency, diluting his 12,952 majority with Labour votes. "There's a lot of
work to do, but I am a local boy."

Mr Kennedy's political optimism contrasts with what he dismisses as the media
pundits' conventional wisdom a year ago. "I went home at Christmas to read and
listen to the end-of-term reports that the Conservatives are resurgent,
rejuvenated, reinvigorated. Many people wrote us off as a result. For the
intervening three or four months it was very difficult for us to get into the
political debate."

Then Mr Howard pre-judged Lord Hutton's report on the death of David Kelly and
wriggled in his support for the Iraq war. He also backed, then withdrew from,
the Butler committee, leaving the Tory MP Michael Mates as "some sort of country
club member" on the panel.

The "new spring in Tory MPs' step" had long disappeared, leaving Mr Howard
spewing out hundreds of policy state ments, many in response to events and
pressure from the Tory press. "It may appeal to the core vote, but that does not
make it easier to appeal to the wider vote on the terrain where elections are
won or lost," Mr Kennedy observes dryly.

Combined with what he calls Mr Blair's dwindling credibility at home and abroad,
it helped the Lib Dems capture the Labour stronghold of Newcastle in the May
elections. Mr Kennedy slides over the party's fourth place - behind Ukip - in
the Euro-elections in June and stresses its byelection win in Leicester South
and near misses in Hodge Hill and Hartlepool.

"Tony Blair's still there, I never thought that wouldn't be the case. But the
most telling thing I can say is that I've seen hundreds of individual Labour
election leaflets from one end of the country to the other this year and I could
count on the fingers of one hand those with a single photo of the Labour
leader."

guardian.co.uk/politics/libdems


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               25 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 19, 2004

Observer Magazine: Heroes & Villains 2004: THE GOOD & THE BAD: FROM THE TRIUMPHS
OF ATHENS TO THE HORRORS OF BAGHDAD... IN OUR ANNUAL REVIEW OF THE YEAR, DAVID
HARE, JOHN CALE, GILLIAN WEARING AND MANY OTHERS NAME THE MAKERS AND BREAKERS OF
2004: Villain: 16/01/04: Robert Kilroy-Silk resigns from his BBC Chatsow,
Kilroy. after making anti-Arab remarks

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 384 words


When Robert Kilroy-Silk branded 'Arabs' as 'suicide bombers, limb amputators,
women oppressors', he prompted a great debate about who had made the largest
contribution to the advance of civilisation. It was a close call, mused one
observer. 'The Arabs have given us numbers, the modern alphabet and the
pendulum. Kilroy has given us a chat show, a newspaper column and a strangely
orange sun tan.'

That commentator was not to know - who would have predicted it? - that Mr
Kilroy-Silk still had his boldest mission ahead of him. That was to transform
Ukip from a party derided as an eccentric ragbag of fractious saloon-bar
jingoists into a party derided as an eccentric ragbag of fractious saloon-bar
jingoists fronted by a man with a tangerine tan.

The former Labour MP and sacked TV host reinvented himself yet again by joining
the UK Independence Party on its mission to amputate Britain from the European
Union. The self-styled champion of ordinary people and saviour of his country
began his involvement with Ukip at a lunch with an earl in Spain where Silky
owns an 100-acre spread on the Costa del Sol. It was love at first sight. He
became the first face of Ukip. And how he loves that face.

'I don't do humble,' he told one interviewer, rather redundantly. To another, he
confided: 'I couldn't pronounce my party's name a few weeks ago, and now every
single person in the audience on Question Time was talking about it the other >
< night. Talk about establishing a brand.' The injection of the sun-kissed ego
provided Ukip with a profile that it had not previously known. He helped himself
to a seat in the European Parliament representing the East Midlands while Ukip
surged to third place in the euro-elections. The Tories had a fit of the vapours
that they were losing the europhobic vote, though this also had the inadvertent
consequence of making the election results look less threatening to the
euro-enthusiastic Tony Blair.

It soon went sour between Silky and his new chums when they astonished him with
their ungrateful reluctance to make him their supreme leader. Amidst a blizzard
of mutual recrimination and name-calling, he amputated himself from the Ukip
group in the parliament. Kilroy was here. He was there. He was everywhere. And
he was nowhere.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               26 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 19, 2004

PUT PARTY FIRST

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 120 words


SO the spat between UKIP chiefs and Robert Kilroy-Silk may end up in court. What
a shame all the good work done at the European elections is to be undone by the
egotistic attitude of Kilroy-Silk and the intransigence of the party hierarchy.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, has done much in the last three months to
return his former party to power at the next election. Putting up candidates
against Tory Eurosceptic candidates will split the vote and ensure the
re-election of Labour or Liberal candidates.

The whole idea of UKIP is to get us out of Europe, and funds and efforts should
be concentrated on this end, rather than promoting personalities.

Gerald W Taylor, Castlefields, Stafford

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               27 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 19, 2004

TIME TO RESIGN

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 75 words


ON Question Time last Thursday night, one of your so-called journalists, Robert
Kilroy-Silk, called David Blunkett a hypocrite.

Is this not a case of the pot calling the kettle black? He was elected as a
member of UKIP in the European elections. Shouldn't he now resign his seat and
fight an election as an independent? Or perhaps he has become used to the
European gravy train he so roundly criticises.

James Morgan, Billingham, Cleveland

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               28 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 18, 2004

SO YOU THINK YOU REMEMBER 2004?; TONIGHT THE BBC PLANS TO TEST THE NATION IN ITS
ANNUAL QUIZ. GET SOME PRACTICE HERE TO HELP SHARPEN YOUR MIND

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 49

LENGTH: 1255 words


THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOWBUSINESS 1) Which snappily dressed Scottish band
won this year's Mercury Music Prize?

2) Which newly knighted British actor caused offence by demanding that casts and
crews address him only by his title?

3) How many Academy Awards did Best Picture winner The Lord of The Rings: The
Return Of The King win at the Oscars, tying with Ben-Hur and Titanic for the
most won in any single year?

4) What was the name of Devon teenager Joss Stone's hit debut album?

5) Bill Murray found love (of a kind) with which actress in the movie Lost In
Translation?

6) Which ageing rock icon astounded many with the first volume of his
autobiography, Chronicles?

7) In Spider-Man 2, Tobey Maguire battled which multi-limbed villain, played by
Alfred Molina?

8) Brad Pitt's sword and sandal epic, Troy, was based on which ancient work by
the Greek poet Homer?

9) Jude Law has appeared in no less than six films in the past year. Name two.

10) Which statuesque blonde played the swordwielding Beatrix Kiddo in Quentin
Tarantino's Kill Bill: Vol 2?

A QUESTION OF SPORT 1) In which sport did Scotland win the World Cup?

2) Who claimed that watching Blackburn Rovers was more stressful than being Home
Secretary?

3) Which football manager was reported to have had soup thrown over him by a
member of the opposing side after a crucial match?

4) Who won the Boat race? Hint: it was either Oxford or Cambridge 5) Which
England bowler took seven wickets for 12 runs in one test-match innings this
year?

6) Who did Greece beat in the final of Euro 2004?

7) Kelly Holmes won two Olympic gold medals in Athens.Who was the last British
woman before her to take gold on an Olympic track?

8) Which sportsman claimed he was changing his name to G8?

9) What was the name of the Welsh defender David Beckham said he had fouled
deliberately?

10) Who did Roger Federer beat in the men's final at Wimbledon?

IN AND OUT It has been quite a year for sackings and resignations. Can you match
these names to the jobs they no longer hold?

1) Piers Morgan 2) Roger Holmes 3) Gavyn Davies 4) Andrew Smith 5) Mark Palios
6) John Swinney a) Marks & Spencer's chief executive b) Leader of the Scottish
National Party c) Editor of the Daily Mirror d) Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions e) Chief executive of the Football Association f) BBC Chairman TV
TRIVIA 1) Which EastEnders actress attended the same post-natal class as Gwyneth
Paltrow?

2) Which soap was axed after a very brief return?

3) Which outspoken presenter upset people in her home town of Liverpool by
saying their children take lessons in shoplifting and only go to school so they
can learn how to fill in betting slips?

4) Who won 2004's Big Brother and has just released a single?

5) Name the three X Factor judges 6) Which celebrity chef invited celebrities
into Hell's Kitchen?

WOMEN OF THE YEAR Can you match the following women with the events that brought
them into the news?

1) Alison Everett 2) Beverley Hughes 3) Rebecca Loos 4) Petronella Wyatt 5)
Leoncia Casalme 6) Sarah Forsyth 7) Faria Alam 8) Barbara Cassani a) Kimberly
Quinn's fast-tracked nanny b) The Eton teacher who said she'd done much of
Prince Harry's course work c) Named in allegations involving Sven-Goran Eriksson
d) Had an affair with Boris Johnson e) Originally Chairman of London's Olympic
bid, now replaced by Sebastian Coe f) Resigned as Immigration Minister g) Told
of her romps with David Beckham h) Won the world conkers championship WHERE IN
THE WORLD?

Can you match the events to the countries in which they took place?

1) In which country did King Mswati III announce that he would spend £10million
on building nine palaces to house seven of his wives and two future brides?

2) Where were more than 200 people killed by terrorist attacks on commuter
trains?

3) ...and where did a hostage crisis at a school leave more than 300 dead, half
of them children?

4) Where was Martha Lane Fox, a founder of Lastminute. com, seriously injured in
a motor accident?

5) ...and where was John Peel on a working holiday when he suffered a fatal
heart attack?

6) Against which country is Sir Mark Thatcher alleged to have been assisting an
attempted coup?

7) Yasser Arafat died in Paris and was buried at Ramallah in the Gaza Strip but
where was his state funeral held?

8) Where was Iyad Allawi living before he became interim Prime Minister of Iraq?

9) In which country was Jean-Baptiste Aristide replaced by Boniface Alexandre as
President?

10) Which country won the Eurovision Song Contest?

a) Russia b) Peru c) Morocco d) Egypt e) Swaziland f) Haiti g) Equatorial Guinea
h) Spain i) Ukraine j) Britain DON'T QUOTE ME 1) Who described what as "an
inverted pyramid of piffle"?

2) Who said: "I was virtually brought up on Weetabix - and look at the result."
3) Who, on what occasion, said: "Of course there were difficult times but
memories mellow with the passing of the years." 4) Which actor knight said:
"Some age, others mature, " and what was he advertising?

5) Whose excuse for being in a London park at 4am was: "My dog had to go!" 6)
Whose move was explained by the line:

"When they bought The Premiership, they sold my playing field." 7) Whose grave
in East Sussex bears the Gaelic inscription "Fuirt me leat go raibh me breoite"
and what does it mean?

8) Who responded to a ban by saying:

"Gold stations play ancient music, so why not me? I am ancient."

FAMOUS FOR 15 MINUTES Many names have hit the headlines in 2004, then faded from
view. Can you match the following names to the right descriptions:

1) Roger Knapman 2) Shaun Wallace 3) John Edwards 4) Chris Uncle 5) Jason Hatch
6) Parmjit Singh Gill a) Protester who sat on a balcony at Buckingham Palace
dressed as Batman b) The running-mate of John Kerry in the US Presidential
election c) Winner of Leicester South in a dramatic Lib-Dem by-election triumph
d) Leader of Ukip who was challenged by Robert Kilroy-Silk e) Photographer whose
lip was split by Prince Harry in a fracas outside a London nightclub f) Winner
of Mastermind, whose specialist subject was FA Cup Finals since 1970 BEASTLY 1)
Which household pests are said to have increased tenfold in the past decade?

2) American Harlequins are threatening the survival of British SevenSpots.Which
creatures are we talking about?

3) Where did Spirit succeed where a Beagle had failed?

4) Two thirds of Britain's species of what are said to be declining under
pressure from modern agriculture and global warming?

5) What do Britain's police say are in such short supply they may breed their
own?

6) Bird-watchers flocked to Grimsby to see an American robin.What happened next?

ODDS AND ENDS 1) Who was found hanged on the eve of his 58th birthday?

2) What was the name of the Baghdad prison where American forces have faced
charges of abusing prisoners?

3) Where did the local residents find Oblivion too noisy?

4) Who died this year at the age of 96 after surviving the attentions of a
gorilla in 1933?

5) What did Charlie, Frances and Ivan do in Florida?

6) How many of the 15 targets set by Royal Mail did the company achieve in the
first quarter of the year?

7) Who was named as the new head of MI6?

8) Who is the shadow chancellor of the exchequer?

9) What has been discovered to be going missing at a rate of 39,000 a day?

10) Whose Smile finally brought great pleasure after 28 years?

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               29 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 18, 2004

Weekend: 2004 THE YEAR IN WORDS

BYLINE: CHARLES NEVIN

SECTION: Guardian Weekend Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 4825 words


JANUARY

A British soldier attempts to secure the area as fire rages on the oil pipeline
between Basra in southern Iraq and the Gulf

The New Year began familiarly, with a taped message from Osama Bin Laden and bad
news from Iraq, which would continue to dominate the year. Two US helicopters
were brought down in the increasingly familiar Falluja, and British troops
exchanged fire with insurgents in Amarah; this was accompanied by bomb
explosions in Baghdad and numerous dead Iraqis - officially unaccounted for, as
usual.

Nor was there much respite to the north, where an earthquake killed some 30,000
people and made another 100,000 homeless in and around the Iranian city of Bam.
Ironists and existentialists joined in the rejoicing when a 97-year-old woman
was found alive after surviving eight days under the rubble. Her first request
was for a cup of tea. Out of this world, there was not so much as a yelp after
Beagle 2 landed on Mars.

Tony Blair suggested that proper consideration should be given to the "the
totality" of his remarks about whether or not he had authorised the leaking of
the name of Dr David Kelly, the government scientist and popular media source on
Iraq and weapons of mass destruction. Lord Hutton's report of the totality
surrounding Dr Kelly's subsequent suicide confounded many of his lordship's
admirers by contriving to blame everyone but Mr Blair and his government, which
also survived a Commons vote on its plans to charge university students top-up
fees. The governor and the director-general of the BBC resigned. Harold Shipman,
the Manchester GP who had murdered at least 200 patients, was found hanged in
his prison cell. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, confided that on hearing
the news he had wondered if it was too early to "open a bottle".

Britney Spears got married. The Barclay twins agreed to buy Lord Black's
newspapers, which include the Daily and Sunday Telegraph; much of the rest of
the year was taken up with negotiations, legal manoeuvrings and insights into
the Black way of life, including his wife's habit of charging tips to the
company and her ownership of 100 pairs of Manolo Blahnik shoes and 12 Hermes
Birkin handbags, for which there is a waiting list of two and a half years.
"Since when was greed a criminal offence?" asked Lord Black. An HB handbag was
also the chosen arm accessory of Martha Stewart, the upper-middle-American style
maven, for her court appearance on fraud charges. One of only 30 Norwegian
robins known to have visited Britain since 1919 was eaten by a cat in a London
garden. Stone slabs thought to be evidence of the first Viking settlements in
Britain turned out to be the remains of a 1939 patio. Britney Spears got
unmarried.

FEBRUARY

A 63-year-old retired businessman and former French foreign legionnaire from
Frome became the oldest man to walk to the South Pole. "I don't give a damn if I
never see another fucking snowflake again in my life," he said. Armin Meiwes was
found guilty of manslaughter rather than murder after a German court found that
his victim had consented to being eaten. At least 21 Chinese cockle pickers
drowned after being trapped by Morecambe Bay's capricious tides.

Mel Gibson's film in Aramaic about Christ's Passion aroused much in others. The
Russian Orthodox Church ruled that chess was not the work of the devil. Pigeons
were revealed to be using roads to navigate: "Every Saturday you can see flocks
of pigeons flying up the M5," said one fancier.

Jonathan Aitken declared himself moved, amazed, humbled and hoped he did not
seem absurdly immodest in recognising the merits of a petition by 200 party
activists urging him to put himself forward as a prospective candidate for his
old constituency. After the blood had drained back, Michael Howard declared him
a non-runner. A Tokyo undertaker beat his aunt to death with a golf club because
he needed the business. Scientists in South Korea were acknowledged to have
successfully cloned human embryos. Thousands wept as Microsoft ran into trouble
with its new software and the MyDoom virus.

MARCH

Demonstrations in more than 300 cities marked the first anniversary of the Iraq
war. Ten bombs exploded within 15 minutes in four commuter trains in Madrid,
killing 201 people and injuring 1,647. A quarter of Spain's population took to
the streets to demonstrate against the outrage. Three days later, the country's
socialist party defeated the conservative government of Jose Maria Aznar and
announced as its first act the withdrawal of its troops from Iraq. Suicide
bombers mounted a co-ordinated attack on Shia mosques in Baghdad and Karbala,
killing more than 140 people and injuring more than 400. This latest attempt to
detonate Iraq's divisions was blamed, like much else, including the Madrid
bombs, on the Jordanian militant, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, whose infamy status
would over the year come almost to match that of Bin Laden, his ally or rival,
depending on the source.

A Hamas suicide bombing left 10 dead in Ashdod. Israeli air strikes killed
Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, the Hamas spiritual leader, and Abdel-Aziz al-Rantissi, the
Hamas leader in Gaza. Tony Blair shook hands with Colonel Gadafy in a tent south
of Tripoli.

Clare Short claimed that Britain had bugged Kofi Annan, the UN
secretary-general, in the run-up to the war in Iraq. The Cabinet Secretary said
he was "extremely disappointed" with her. The Sun sent a reporter dressed as a
bug to follow her. "What a ridiculous way to earn a living," said Ms Short. "You
could always do something else," said the Sun reporter. It wasn't long before
she was.

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti flew to the Central African Republic
after a revolt and pressure from the United States and France. There were two
additions to the Blair myth: Cherie Booth revealed that her husband had once
spent a night on a park bench, and Carole Caplin's nickname for him was said to
be "Toblerone".

New Britons from Afghanistan, Kenya, Poland and elsewhere took part in the
country's first citizenship ceremony at Brent Town Hall, watched by the Prince
of Wales, while a brass band played the theme from Four Weddings And A Funeral.
The editor of Prospect magazine argued against too much cultural diversity. A
molecular biologist revealed he had given it up for a better paid job as a
plumber. Coca-Cola conceded that Dasani, its new bottled water, came out of taps
in Sidcup. John F Kerry confirmed his position as Democrat challenger to George
W Bush in the Super Tuesday primaries. One of only 12 American robins known to
have visited this country was eaten by a sparrowhawk in Grimsby soon after
landing.

Lord Falconer found himself appointed Lord Chancellor after he tried to persuade
the Lords to abolish the post of Lord Chancellor. In an interview with Gary
Younge, Jayson Blair, former New York Times journalist, blamed his lying and
inaccuracies on drink and cocaine. Five of the nine Britons held at Guantanamo
Bay for two years after their arrest in Afghanistan returned to Britain without
charge. Germany was reported to be overrun with racoons descended from a pair
introduced by Herman Goering. A brain surgeon was accused by the NHS of helping
himself to an extra bowl of soup in the hospital cafeteria, and suspended.

APRIL

Numbers of one-legged Romanian roofers and fingerless Bulgarian electricians
were said to be at large in the country as a result of a relaxed Home Office
policy towards vetting visa applications from foreign workers eager to service
Britain's overheated economy. Someone had to leave: it was Beverley Hughes,
immigration minister.

Michael Grade was appointed BBC chairman. England's cricketers won a test series
again the West Indies. England's rugby union players lost to Ireland. Tony Blair
played quoits in Bermuda on one of his freebies. Germany won the world marbles
championships in Sussex.

Tony Blair finished the quoits, checked in at the White House and returned to
Britain in time to read an open letter from 52 former British diplomats
condemning the "illegal and brutal occupation" of Iraq and his support for Ariel
Sharon's "one-sided and illegal" policy of retaining West Bank settlements.
Despite not having a reverse gear, he then announced that there would be a
referendum on the new European constitution after all, confiding that "I'm going
to have to eat shit for a few days", which seemed a little optimistic. Ron
Atkinson was doing some of the same after airing some ill-favoured views on
racial characteristics.

A PA with Goldman Sachs was found guilty of stealing £4.3m from her employers,
who hadn't noticed. There were reports of massacres in Darfur. Altogether, it
was revealed, Britons take 8m days off a year to get over the death of pets.

MAY

Europe welcomed 10 new members to its Union, including the Greek bit of the
disunion of Cyprus. Picture followed picture of Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib
prison in Baghdad being humiliated by American guards employing electrodes,
hoods, dogs and anything else that took their fancy. An American contractor
became the first in a series of beheadings on video carried out by Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi, who said he was avenging the "satanic degradation" at Abu Ghraib.
George Bush said Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defence Secretary, was doing "a superb
job". British indignation at Abu Ghraib was tempered by 30 cases of alleged
brutality by its forces. Piers Morgan, editor of the Daily Mirror, was sacked
after publishing faked photographs purporting to show British soldiers
mistreating Iraqis.

It was seven years since Tony Blair became prime minister, 10 years since John
Smith died, and 25 years since Margaret Thatcher became prime minister. Gordon
Brown and John Prescott spent 90 minutes admiring the view from the car park of
the Loch Fyne Oyster Bar and definitely not discussing shifting tectonic plates
or their leader's faltering grip. Robert Mugabe called Tony Blair "an
anachronism"; Fathers 4 Justice threw purple flour-filled condoms at him in the
Commons. Celebrations of the 50th anniversary of Roger Bannister's four-minute
mile ran into rival claims: a costermonger called Parrot was said to have done
it in Shoreditch High Street in 1770, also in May, and Mr Ken Wood of Sheffield
said he'd done it on a training run 29 days before Sir Roger, but "didn't regard
it as all that important" at the time. John Scarlett, the spy whose dossier more
than slightly exaggerated the case for war against Iraq, was appointed head of
MI6. Opinion was divided on whether he was stupid or a stooge. No one seemed to
be asking whether he might be, perhaps, a double-stooge. The object of similar
doubts, Maxine Carr, was released from prison.

Sonia Gandhi renounced her claim to be prime minister of India, despite the
victory by her Congress party in the general election there. St Helens crushed
Wigan to win the Powergen Challenge Cup Final. Arsenal won the Premiership
without losing a game. Le Figaro celebrated the centenary of the Entente
Cordiale by arguing that the clarity and unambiguity of French made it superior
to English, which seemed quite unfair. A school in Mansfield arranged an
abortion for a 14-year-old pupil without consulting her parents. The Pope
canonised a woman who sacrificed her life so that her child might be born.

Oil and house prices continued to rise while pensions declined. The worth of
that old maxim "Never hold a wedding party if there are are American forces
within 100 miles" was proved once again when more than 40 guests were killed by
helicopter fire near the Syrian border. George Bush disproved the one about
never forgetting how to ride a bicycle and grazed his nose. Figures showed that
the average Briton is caught on CCTV camera 300 times a day. Big Brother started
again. A new show on UKTV Style featured paint drying.

JUNE

The UK Independence Party, bolstered by the cosmetic support of Robert
Kilroy-Silk and Joan Collins, achieved 7% fewer votes than Labour and 1% more
than the Lib Dems in the European elections. An average of more than one car
bomb a day was exploding in Iraq. Poland recruited American Navajo scouts to
track illegal immigrants from Ukraine. The Momart warehouse in London, storing
works by Hirst, Emin, Heron and the Chapman brothers, went up in flames to
predictably divided opinion. The England soccer team retired from Euro 2004,
hurt by a dodgy pitch, a dodgy ref, Wayne Rooney's dodgy metatarsal and dodgy
players. Jonny Wilkinson revealed that England rugby union players use
moisturiser. Frank Lampard's armpits, meanwhile, were revealed to be waxed.

The former American president Ronald Reagan died and was discovered to have
saved the Free World. The crisis in Darfur was rediscovered, again. Sovereignty
was restored to Iraq under the prime-ministership of Iyad Allawi, a long-exiled
former Ba'athist. He had provided the exaggerated intelligence supporting
invasion that hadn't been contributed by the disgraced Ahmad Chalabi, now
accused of working for Iran. Saddam Hussein was formally handed over by the
Americans, although they continued to guard him. Philip Green, of BHS and much
else besides, battled to take over Marks & Spencer. Big Brother went on.

JULY

Saddam Hussein appeared, grey-bearded and crisply shirted, in court in Baghdad
to answer charges for crimes against the peoples of Iraq and Kuwait. He said he
had invaded Kuwait because the Kuwaitis were trying to turn Iraqi women into
prostitutes. Lord Butler found serious flaws in the quality, assessment and
application of the intelligence that led to the war in Iraq and criticised the
working practices of Downing Street and the Joint Intelligence Committee, but,
being a highly experienced former civil servant, blamed it on incompetence
rather than intention. Tony Blair blamed the 60s.

John Kerry chose Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, who also had great
hair, as his running mate. Michael Howard chose (Everything I Do) I Do It For
You and All You Need Is Love on Desert Island Discs. A 100-year-old man ran 100
metres in 28.7 seconds in Cape Town. Israel's security fence was ruled illegal
by the International Court of Justice and condemned by the United Nations.
Laughing children played in the Diana Memorial Fountain in Hyde Park after it
had been officially opened by the Queen.

Charles Clarke, the education secretary, outlined some education reforms
exhibiting a particularly bravura new Labour retro-futuro choice-mix involving
public-private schools, faith schools, specialist schools, uniform, and public
school houses. Harry Potter seemed to be the target pupil. The Commission for
Racial Equality discovered that it was least likely to promote black employees.
Laughing children stopped playing in the Diana Memorial Fountain after it
flooded.

Dame Shirley Porter, who claimed she had only £300,000 to put towards to the
£42m she had been ordered to pay in compensation for gerrymandering wodges of
Westminster, somehow scraped together £12.3m, which was accepted.

Eric Williams, 60, blacked out and crashed his car into Gordon White's living
room in Cleckheaton, West Yorkshire, a year after he had done it the first time.
Peter Mandelson returned to public life, the scene of several previous
accidents. The Football Association's Soho HQ appeared to have taken key aspects
of local industry enthusiastically on board. Philip Green withdrew his offer for
Marks & Spencer, making some robust suggestions about what should be done with
the chairman's head. Martha Stewart was sentenced to five months and compared
herself to Nelson Mandela. A grandmother in San Francisco foiled a burglary by
showing the intruder pictures of her family until he fell asleep on the sofa.
Darfur continued. Tony Blair stayed at Sir Cliff's villa in Barbados, despite
his views on the 60s.

AUGUST

Three weeks of heavy fighting in Najaf between US forces and the Mahdi army of
the radical Shia cleric Moqtada al-Sadr were ended by the return of Grand
Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani to the holy city after medical treatment in London.
Some said this set a hopeful precedent for other cities and flashpoints. More
doubted it. Notting Hill continued its headlong descent into respectability by
lending its name to a group of ambitious young Tories. Hurricane Charley
devastated Florida. A flash flood devastated Boscastle. John Prescott rescued a
canoeist. Google floated. The Princess Diana Memorial was reopened but laughing
children were no longer allowed in it, although they could dangle their feet
from the sides.

Sheep in Yorkshire were reported to be rolling across cattle grids, just as they
are every summer on a slack news day. Coal from Russia was carried to Newcastle.
The Olympics returned to Athens. There was an alleged accident involving a
motorcycle bearing Greeks who seemed less than keen on drugs tests. Britain
became the first western country to permit therapeutic cloning. Tony Blair's
Summer Holiday moved on from Sir Cliff's place to that of another famous
crooner, Silvio Berlusconi. The usual complaints about dumbing down greeted the
A-level results. George W Bush, on the campaign trial, tried to eat raw corn. A
popular T-shirt at the Democratic convention sported the legend, "One of Texas's
villages is missing its idiot." Mark Thatcher, also famous for being missing,
and for having no A-levels, was arrested on suspicion of financing an attempted
coup in Equatorial Guinea, something he denied, although it wasn't clear if his
defence was that he didn't know where it was. Michael Owen found his way to Real
Madrid. Paula Radcliffe lost hers in Athens, but Kelly Holmes won, Amir Khan
came second, Matthew Pinsent wept, and Big Brother finished. Uproar and
amazement greeted a blind man having sex with an American.

SEPTEMBER

Terrorists, assumed to be Chechen separatists, killed 331 people, 172 of them
children, after seizing a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. One in five Germans
wanted the Berlin wall rebuilt. Serbia banned the teaching of Darwinism in
schools for the rest of the year. Charles Clarke proposed that schools should be
open from 8am to 9pm, including the holidays, to provide child care for working
parents. It was unclear whether this influenced Alan Milburn's decision to spend
more time with his prime minister. Britney Spears got married.

A figure in a Batman outfit carrying a large ladder failed to arouse the
suspicions of the guards at Buckingham Palace. Kofi Annan said the invasion of
Iraq had been illegal. Britain's ambassador in Rome was said to have described
George Bush as "the best recruiting sergeant ever for al-Qaida". Tony Blair went
to Brighton and apologised for having misled himself over the intelligence. He
also spoke of "a problem of trust" and said Gordon Brown was "a personal
friend". Melvyn Bragg, another personal friend, revealed that the prime minister
had been close to quitting earlier in the year due to family pressures. Iyad
Allawi went to Washington and told congress that he and they were succeeding in
Iraq. Attacks by insurgents were averaging 70 a day. A British engineer, Kenneth
Bigley, and two American colleagues fell into the hands of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.
The two Americans were beheaded shortly afterwards.

Here, they were bothered about foxes again; five pro-hunting protesters,
including Bryan Ferry's son, invaded the floor of the Commons and were
apprehended after a vigorous struggle with the gentlemen-at-arms, henceforth and
delightfully known as the Men in Tights. Hurricane Ivan blew through Jamaica,
Grenada and the southern states of the US, while Jeanne ravaged Haiti. Jack
Straw stopped wearing spectacles and shook hands with Robert Mugabe. The United
States accused the Sudanese government of genocide. Laughing children were stood
down again as the Princess Diana Memorial Fountain closed again. There were the
usual stories about conkers being dangerous.

OCTOBER

Tony Blair had a heart operation after saying he didn't want to serve a fourth
term, and bought a house without a garden for £3.6m. His wife earned £30,000 for
a 40-minute speech to insurance brokers in West Virginia. Labour just won the
Hartlepool by-election caused by Peter Mandelson's move to Brussels. Michael
Howard's Conservatives were forced into fourth place by Ukip. John Howard's
Liberals were re-elected in Australia, even though or because he and his
government had been described by the leader of the opposition as "a conga line
of suckholes".

Bob Geldof spoke up for marriage. A rich American joined rich Irishmen in
wanting to run Manchester United. Kenneth Bigley was beheaded. Commentators were
disturbed by the "frenzy" and "indulgence" of the reaction in Britain,
particularly in the dead man's home city, Liverpool, whose inhabitants were
accused by the Spectator of possessing a deeply unattractive psyche and
contributing to the Hillsborough disaster through drunken behaviour. The
magazine's editor, also a Tory spokesman on the arts, was ordered by Michael
Howard, a keen supporter of the Liverpool team, to go to the city and apologise.
He complied, but it did not go well, and subsequently went worse when a robust
but economical reaction to reports about his private life led Michael Howard to
sack him.

Margaret Hassan, a British aid worker married to an Iraqi who had lived in Iraq
for 30 years, was kidnapped. Labour's plans to deregulate gambling and allow
large Las Vegas-style casinos, which had been bumbling along since at least
2001, suddenly, in the way of these things, caused an outbreak of apoplexy,
principally from the Daily Mail. The first man was discovered to have been
Asian. There were said to be only about 800 women called Maude left in the
country.

Tony Blair announced that one of the last duties of the Black Watch before it
fell victim to defence cuts would be to support the uncomplicated approach of
the US to the insurgency in Falluja. Some thought this dangerous but highly
symbolic demonstration of support would help George Bush win the imminent
American election, which, following the candidates' debates, was said to be
very, very close. Paul Gascoigne announced that he was now to be known as G8.
Rumours that Chelsea Clinton would now be known as SW3 proved unfounded.

Arsenal lost their unbeaten record at Old Trafford and introduced a new phrase
following an incident involving Sir Alex Ferguson and some pea broth: "And then
the soup really hit the manager." Parents everywhere were impressed when Prince
Harry claimed to have done some of his A-level coursework. Tony Blair was said
to be considering converting to Catholicism. And you thought the top job he was
after in Europe was the federal presidency? A man in Beccles developed a
jet-propelled shopping trolley. An ICM survey disclosed that one in 10 people in
Britain thinks the Battle of Trafalgar was fought in Trafalgar Square. Kylie
Minogue beat Salman Rushdie at Scrabble.

NOVEMBER

John Kerry got 55% of the vote, with George Bush trailing in with a sorry 5%.
Unfortunately, this was the result of a worldwide internet poll. In the real
event, George did rather better, thanks or no thanks to a valiant effort by
Guardian readers to swing it by launching letters at Clark County, Ohio. London
published its detailed bid for the 2012 Olympics. Athens's debt after the
Olympics stood at euros 7bn, euros 1,900 for each Greek household.

Despite pleas from every quarter, including that of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi,
Margaret Hassan was murdered by her kidnappers. There was more attention devoted
to fox hunting. The bill to ban it was forced through after the government
invoked the Parliament Act, a statute of dubious legality designed to resolve
constitutional crises. The Queen entertained President Chirac at Windsor in the
Music Room, known when President Chirac is not there as the Waterloo Room.
England's cricketers visited Zimbabwe. Fortunately, Robert Mugabe decided
against playing.

The Prince of Wales was revealed to believe in a meritocracy that knows its
place. Rocco Buttiglione's belief that homosexuality is a sin raised questions
of tolerance that were not entirely answered by the refusal of MEPs to
countenance his appointment as a EU commissioner. A plague of locusts reached
southern Europe from northern Africa. Theo van Gogh was shot and stabbed to
death in Amsterdam by a Muslim man after making a film alleging sexual and
physical abuse of Muslim women. Twenty-four soccer teams comprised entirely of
people called Patel played a tournament for charity in Leeds. Yasser Arafat died
and was buried in Ramallah. To this date, nearly 3,500 Palestinians and 1,000
Israelis had been killed since September, 2000. Nearly 1,500 members of the
coalition forces had died since the invasion of Iraq, andstill no proper count,
but somewhere between 10,000 and 100,000 Iraqis. The Black Watch's mission added
five soldiers and an interpreter.

Farmers in India were spraying their crops with Coca-Cola as a cheap alternative
to pesticides. A 10-year-old toasted cheese sandwich supposedly featuring an
image of the Virgin Mary was put up for auction on eBay, then removed on grounds
of taste, even though the owner said it had remained completely uncorrupted
during its 10 years. Coca-Cola moved on from the Sidcup tapwater debacle by
proposing to lay a pipeline through an area of outstanding natural beauty to get
at some more Malvern water. Elsewhere in bottled water, the Fijian variety,
flown in from 10,000 miles away, was proving popular. The miraculous toasted
cheese sandwich was reinstated and sold to a casino for $ 28,000.

Two sets of extraordinary people confounding previous theories about evolution
were discovered in the Pacific: skeletons of a tiny, hairy species of human were
found in Indonesia, while Queensland was the setting for I'm A Celebrity . . .
Get Me Out Of Here.

Seven people died when a driver parked his car on a level crossing in Berkshire.
The north-east showed a marked inclination against devolution. The government
showed a marked inclination against devolution in other areas, proposing more
phone-tapping, compulsory drug-testing, smoking bans, chewing gum restrictions
and identity cards. Not everyone was convinced by the argument that these
measures were justified because all anti-social behaviour, from over-eating to
suicide-bombing, was intimately and causally connected. Others looked forward to
a world where thinner non-smokers would gamble and drink all night. This
boundary dispute between public responsibility and private liberty was then
piquantly pointed up by the confusing behaviour of its chief prosecutor, the
aforesaid American-involved blind man. The speed and keenness to order another
inquiry was not matched over the continuing scandal at Deepcut Barracks. A fall
of 8% in the annual burglary figures was attributed to a decline in demand for
secondhand goods. These bad times for the trade were compounded when the
burglary of former burglar Ozzy Osbourne prompted calls to allow any retaliation
short of ritual disembowelling (which would probably be all right if it was done
from the front).

DECEMBER

Orange-bedecked Ukranians who had taken to the streets of Kiev to protest
against the defeat of their candidate in the presidential election celebrated
after a re-run was ordered amid claims of interference from both east and west.

Orange-bedecked Ulstermen did not take to the streets of Belfast to celebrate a
power-sharing agreement between Ian Paisley's DUP and Gerry Adams's Sinn Fein.

Jeanette Winterson opened a delicatessen. Pizza producers complained that the
Atkins Diet had doubled world cheese prices in two years. Darfur and other
troubled parts of sub-Saharan Africa were still hungry. Bob Geldof was still
angry. Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, "the Lennon and McCartney of global
development" according to Bono, raised hopes that Britain's presidency of the EU
and the G8 in 2005 might just possibly spare us another cover of Do They Know
It's Christmas?, which was still number one. That is if, of course, they have
any time over from sorting out Iraq, helping George Bush with his CO2 habit,
general nursing duties and winning the next election.

Comedians protested that yet more Home Office legislation would prevent them
from making jokes about religions, for God's sake. The Seven Dwarves threatened
to quit the Dresden Xmas fair after Snow White was sacked for posing topless.
Father Christmas delivered his gifts in Clackmannanshire on behalf of the Alloa
Round Table with the help of a police escort after a series of attacks in past
years on his sleigh by youths armed with bottles and other missiles, while in
Llanelli he was monitored by a camera in his grotto to prevent possible
allegations of child abuse.

Have a happy one yourself!


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               30 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 18, 2004

Weekend: 2004: Arrivals and departures

SECTION: Guardian Weekend Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 587 words


A 22-2 NEC vote readmitted Ken Livingstone to the Labour party after five years
of independence. With a promise to give up plans of making WMD, Muammar Gadafy
made his way back into international circles as the EU lifted sanctions on Libya
after 11 years. Film critics welcomed a new age of full frontal male nudity.
Four major movies released in 2004 - Kinsey, Sideways, Bad Education, and
Alexander, featuring Colin Farrell - had scenes revealing it all. Coco ,
Makena'lei and Roman Robert : were they hair products? No, the offspring of
Courtney Cox Arquette , Helen Hunt and Cate Blanchett . EastEnder Jessie Wallace
gave birth to Tallulah Lilac (right, top). Cutting It's Angela Griffin chose
Tallulah Jae , and an Apple arrived for Gwyneth Paltrow (above) and Chris Martin
.

Also arriving were draft proposals for a National Identity Card Scheme . With
desperate hopes it would remain upright, Iraq's new interim constitution was
unveiled on March 8. Earlier in the year, Afghanistan got a fresh constitution
as well. In Iraq it was an uneasy welcome for the first Japanese troops to enter
combat since the second world war.

It took 128 years, but February saw Middlesbrough win the Carling Cup final -
the first trophy in their history. At the end of August, Wayne Rooney said hello
to his new billet at Manchester United. 'It was a tough decision . . .' he said,
though one sweetened by monster wages.

It was finally hello to the new Scottish Parliament building in September, as
Holyrood opened for business amid banners questioning why it had cost £431m. The
Glasgow band Franz Ferdinand was welcomed into the mainstream after winning the
Mercury Music Prize for their self-titled debut album.

Mordechai Vanunu returned to life outside after serving 18 years for revealing
Israeli nuclear secrets. Singer Yusuf Islam , formerly known as Cat Stevens,
thought he was arriving in Washington, DC in September but was diverted to Maine
and detained on national security grounds. One Muslim group noted it was 'a slap
in the face of sanity'.

McDonald's announced the end of its 'super-sized' portions. On March 19, the
final episode of Sex And The City (above, right) slunk across terrestrial TV
screens for the last time. Also put out to rerun pasture were two more US TV
stalwarts, Friends and Frasier , leaving a gaping hole in the lives of the
couchbound. Steve Waugh , hero of Australian cricket, played his last test
match, leaving the game as its most successful test captain. Liberal Democrat MP
Jenny Tonge was pushed from the front bench following her comments on
Palestinian suicide bombers: 'I think if I had to live in that situation . . . I
might just consider becoming one myself'. In his Daily Express column, Robert
Kilroy-Silk described Arabs as 'suicide bombers, limb amputators, women
repressors' and was suspended from the BBC, then later resigned, then took and
later gave up the UKIP whip. In February, Russian president Vladimir Putin gave
the sack to his entire cabinet citing merely 'satisfactory' work. Also tendering
letters of resignation: Liverpool FC manager Gerard Houllier after six years;
CIA director George Tenet after a stormy tenure, which included the 9/11
attacks; the full-time staff of the Erotic Review when notified the publication
was being moved to unsexy Surrey. Tom Ford , the most successful designer of the
past decade, left Gucci, while Nelson Mandela retired from his own retirement.
'Don't call me,' he told reporters. 'I'll call you.'


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               31 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 17, 2004, Friday

Howard and crew stuck in the doldrums

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: News; International Pg. 12

LENGTH: 727 words

IF TWO friends are marooned on a desert island they are bound to irritate each
other but an even worse problem is likely to be that nothing ever happens. Every
day is like the one before.

According to what is almost certainly YouGov's last tracking survey for The
Daily Telegraph before the start of an election year, the Conservative Party
evidently suffers from the same problem at the moment. Prodigious efforts yield
virtually no results.

While the Labour Party gains or loses a couple of points from time to time, the
Tories remain wholly becalmed. A puff of wind after Michael Howard became leader
just over a year ago died down almost at once and Tory support today is no
higher - indeed slightly lower - than it was at the time of the last General
Election.

Roughly a tenth of YouGov's survey was conducted after the resignation of David
Blunkett but even that dramatic event appears to have made little or no
difference to the parties' standings.

As usual, whenever Labour's support declines - it has now been as low as 35 per
cent for two months in a row - the Liberal Democrats and minor parties rather
than the Conservatives are the sole beneficiaries. The proportion saying they
would vote Liberal Democrat at an early election has risen from 19 per cent in
2001 to 21 per cent now. Backing for the various minor parties, notably the UK
Independence Party has risen much more sharply - from a total of seven per cent
last time to 12 per cent now.

The section of the chart headed "Party images" throws light on why only two
thirds of voters are prepared to support either major party and also why the
Conservatives seem unable to cash in on discontent with Labour.

YouGov offered respondents a long list of words and phrases and asked people to
indicate which they thought applied to each of the major parties. The chart
reports the results in connection only with nine items which 20 per cent or more
of respondents thought did apply to the Conservatives or Labour.

YouGov's findings should make gloomy reading for both Tory and Labour
politicians. The negatives in the chart dominate the positives, with more than
40 per cent of voters thinking at least one of the two main parties is "not in
touch with people like me" or is "out of tune with modern Britain".

However, although bad for both parties, the findings are worse for the Tories.
Four times as many people regard the Conservatives as being "stuck in the past"
as think the same of Labour and twice as many people think Labour actually is
"in tune with modern Britain" as think the same of the Conservatives.

That said, the Tories score over Labour under two headings. Considerably more
people think Labour is the party that "does not have clear principles" and "has
too many policies that don't make sense". In both cases, the explanation may lie
partly in the fact that Labour and not the Tories has been in power for the past
seven years.

YouGov's findings also make it clear that the Conservatives have yet to convince
a critical mass of swing voters that taxes should be cut and that the Tories are
the party to cut them. The figures in the section of the chart headed "The
Tories and taxation" are certainly consistent with most voters' belief that
taxes should not be further increased but provide little support for the idea
that large-scale tax cuts could prove enormously popular.

As the figures show, Labour rather than the Conservatives is thought to be the
party more able to provide "value for money" and - offered the choice between
tax cuts and "any money available for tax cuts being used to increase spending
on public services such as health, education and help for old people" - a
substantial majority opt for more spending on services. Even if people favour
tax cuts, the Tories suffer from a substantial credibility gap on the issue.

A mere 17 per cent of YouGov's respondents believe that, if elected to power,
the Conservatives actually would cut taxes. Nearly two thirds, 62 per cent, have
little or no idea whether they would or not. Moreover, most voters harbour
doubts about whether the Conservatives could, in practice, succeed in cutting
taxes without simultaneously cutting services.

The Conservatives maintain they could but only one voter in four, 22 per cent,
believes them.  *Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               32 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 16, 2004

Tax relief urged for small donors: Report backs spending switch to local
campaigns

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 590 words


Multimillion pound donations to political parties should not be blocked, but tax
incentives should be introduced to encourage a greater number of smaller
donations, the Electoral Commission proposes today.

A report on future funding of political parties also proposes shifting party
spending from national to local campaigns by imposing a £15m national spending
limit in the election after next.

Critics will claim the limited reforms will leave the increasingly cash-strapped
parties prey to the influence of big business.

However, as the commission acknowledges, trade unions fear a cap on individual
donations would be a back-door route to marginalising their influence inside the
Labour party.

The commission suggests its research "reveals there is no national consensus on
the extension of state funding to political parties and that radical measures
must await the construction of such a consensus".

If a ban were imposed on big donations, a cap would have to be set at a level of
£10,000.

In what it describes as interim proposals, the commission recommends that there
should be income tax relief on all political donations up to £200. Any tax
relief scheme should extend to non-taxpayers, possibly through a match-funding
system.

It also proposes a degree of increased public funding, including the extension
of policy development grants to all parties. The grant should increase from £2m
to £3m a year, it says, and should be extended to parties whether or not they
take the oath of loyalty to the Queen, a mechanism for extending the grant to
Sinn Fein.

Policy development funding should also be made available to parties elected to
other political bodies such as the European parliament, thus opening the way to
funding for the UK Independence party. The proposals would bar funding of the
British National party.

It is suggested that candidates in local elections should have access to the
freepost facility enjoyed by candidates for parliamentary elections. This would
give every local candidate free delivery of campaign information to every
household or elector in the constituency.

Candidates' spending limits should be doubled, to encourage more campaigning
activity at local level, and national spending limits for Westminster elections
should be cut from £20m to £15m after the next general election.

In practice, few parties are likely to meet such national spending limits, as
they are scaling down spending on national media advertising.

* Voter registration in Northern Ireland has slumped since laws to thwart
electoral cheats were introduced, according to a study by the all-party Northern
Ireland affairs committee published yesterday. It showed that just over 84% of
those eligible to vote were registered in May, down from 95% before the 2002
Electoral Fraud Act.

Even though the committee's chairman, Michael Mates MP, accepted that the
earlier figures were inflated, he was shocked by the scale of the reduction.
"There is evidence that the register is shrinking by about 1.5% per annum," he
said.

Legislation requiring all eligible voters to enrol annually was brought in amid
concerns that the system was being corrupted.

Aside from the overall drop-off, committee members expressed concern that few
young people were on the list.

Less than a quarter of 17- and 18-year-olds have registered, with only a third
(33%) of 18-to 24-year-olds on the electoral books. "These figures are
unacceptably low," Mr Mates said.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               33 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 16, 2004, Thursday

Will tax relief come to the aid of the party?

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 32

LENGTH: 287 words


POLITICAL parties should receive extra state subsidies and tax breaks worth up
to £10 million a year, according to the Electoral Commission (Tom Baldwin
writes).

The watchdog's report on the finances of political parties stops short of
backing full state funding, instead recommending "interim measures" such as tax
relief on donations and membership fees worth less than £200. This move,
intended to "encourage parties to seek out larger numbers of smaller donations
and increase their support and membership base", is expected to cost the
Treasury £4 million a year.

The report also calls for a rise in grants for policy development from £2
million a year, to £3 million. Previously this money was available only to
parties with two MPs who had taken the Oath of Allegiance. The commission
recommends that any party with two representatives in the Commons, devolved
assemblies or the European Parliament be eligible. That would mean Sinn Fein, as
well as the UK Independence Party would be entitled to support of at least
£125,000 a year.

Sam Younger, chairman of the commission, told The Times that although voters
were worried over the influence of big donors, there was not a consensus for
more far-reaching change. He believed questions over the independence of
political parties from the state, as well as the eligibility of new parties for
public funding, needed to be resolved before further action could be taken.

The report suggests any limit on donations would be set at about £10,000. This
proposal was strongly opposed by the Tories, who rely on big donors, and trade
union leaders, who feared it would sever their historic link through affiliation
fees with the Labour Party.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               34 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 15, 2004

G2: Real lives: 'I owe it to my people': She is 29 and, until recently, was a
student in London. But now she finds herself in Brussels, the first Gypsy MEP.
Livia Jaroka tells Stephen Moss her story - and her plans to fight for the
rights of the Roma

BYLINE: Stephen Moss

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1653 words


There are two ways of approaching this interview: I can either develop a close
understanding of the complexities of Hungarian politics or enjoy an hour in the
company of a charismatic, passionate 29-year-old MEP who, with no previous
political experience, has been sent to Brussels as Europe's first Roma
representative. Naturally, I take the second option.

The political facts will, therefore, perforce be sketchy. Livia Jaroka was
elected in June as an MEP for the Hungarian centre-right party Fidesz. She was
number eight on their list and thus more or less guaranteed a seat. At the time
of the election, she was completing a PhD on Roma identity at University College
London, and was not a member of Fidesz. She is still not a member of the party
she represents, does not seem an obvious rightwinger and has no apparent
political interests beyond Roma rights. All of which makes her a political naif
and a breath of fresh air amid the bickering bureaucrats of Brussels.

We arrive at the parliament building simultaneously. She has her husband Peter
(a retired deep-sea diver and enthusiastic Alpinist) and one-year-old daughter
Emma in tow. They have just been out flat-hunting. A friend and fellow student
called Fran has been installed as her secretary up in the two small,
paper-strewn rooms she has been assigned on the 12th floor. There is a pleasing
feeling that the student union has somehow taken over Europe's seat of power. It
couldn't happen at Westminster.

But don't be deceived: behind Jaroka's youth, her effervescent charm and
peculiar route to Brussels lies a deep commitment to improving the lot of her
people, the Roma, the widely abused European Gypsies. There are 1 million Roma
in Hungary and more than 10 million in Europe, many living in squalor and facing
daily discrimination. She intends to make the EU aware of their plight.

"I became an MEP because I think I owe it to my people," she says. "I have
studied for this for seven years at different universities. After finishing
university, it was very tempting to stay at home with my daughter, but I always
felt that I had things to do and I think my husband realised this too. Roma
politicians have been neglected in the past, so I feel that I am doing it for
them."

Discrimination against the Roma minority is a huge problem in Hungary, but
Britain shouldn't feel too complacent about its treatment of a group which has
been oppressed and marginalised for centuries. Last week, the law lords here
ruled that a Home Office operation at Prague airport to prevent Czech Roma
people travelling to Britain to claim asylum amounted to "inherent and
systematic" racism. A Roma person attempting to travel from Prague was 400 times
more likely to be turned back than a non-Roma.

The law lords' judgment bears out Jaroka's experiences in the UK. She says she
was surprised by the level of anti-Gypsy feeling while studying here. "I was
shocked to see a sign saying 'Dogs and Gypsies are not allowed' in a pub in
England. It makes you think about how much pressure the European Union really
puts on its member countries - even countries that have been in for years. In
Greece, thousands of Roma are living on garbage dumps, without electricity and
water. There are rats; children are born there without seeing a doctor - some of
them are never even registered; the police never go there; and waste is being
buried right next to where they live. This is Greece, which has just spent
billions of euros staging the Olympics. It's not just a problem in the countries
which joined the EU on May 1; it affects all the countries in Europe."

She was in the UK in the spring and was depressed by the Roma scare stories that
proliferated in the run-up to accession. "It was just total nonsense," she says.
"It was much more about fears than real-life experience. I don't think migration
is an issue. The Roma can't leave their home countries because they don't have
the professional qualifications and the language abilities to work in Britain.
It's a myth, a creation of the media which is playing on prejudice."

Fidesz's offer of a seat in the European parliament came as a surprise. Jaroka
had done some research for them three years ago, but had been critical of their
stance towards the Roma and the relationship had ended acrimoniously. She
insists that she is not being used just to attract Roma votes to the party. "I
was a totally unknown face in Hungarian politics. They didn't campaign with me
and I wasn't a big feature of the election, so as far as I can see they were
much more interested in having my expertise than a nice face on the party list.
I didn't feel it was an offer to me. I felt it was an offer to the Hungarian
Roma, which was why I accepted it."

She is dismissive of the attitude of Hungary's leftwing parties to Roma rights.
"The liberals and the socialists are always putting the Roma on the agenda, but
as far as I can see it's just window dressing. Offering me a place at least
seemed to show that Fidesz were serious about the issue."

Education is Jaroka's first priority. She speaks with horror of the segregation
and brutality that Roma children face in Hungar ian schools. "About 60% of Roma
children are segregated and 30% of them are said to be mentally handicapped,
which is ridiculous. They put the children, all ages mixed together, in crowded
classrooms and usually just let them draw. They never take PE or language
courses; they don't even know what a computer is by the time they finish school;
the school is happy if they are not coming; Roma children have almost no chance
of going to university."

Jaroka was one of the few Roma who did make it. She was lucky to be born in the
small town of Sopron near the Austrian border, whose Roma population numbered
only around 300 and where the school was not rigidly segregated. Her father was
Roma, her mother not, and she is lighter-skinned than most Gypsies. Her parents
encouraged all three of their children to study, and Jaroka has clocked up
stints at five universities, ending with her PhD in London.

She comes from a distinguished Gypsy musical family - Hungary has produced many
famous Gypsy violinists, and her great-uncle, Jaroka Sandor, was one of the most
celebrated. But her father was a waiter rather than a musician, working for a
government catering business until he lost his job when the communist system
disintegrated and state enterprises were privatised in 1989. "My family's
history is very typical of the Roma experience in Hungary," says Jaroka. "Most
of them are unemployed and living in very bad conditions."

She says that, despite her academic credentials and her post at Brussels, she
still experiences discrimination in Hungary. "As soon as people hear my name
they know I am a Gypsy. It doesn't matter how educated you are or how light your
skin is. It doesn't matter if I have a PhD or if I am an MEP, I am seen as a
Gypsy. If they realise it, they always let you know that they know. If I go to a
discotheque with dark-coloured people, they won't let me in."

Jaroka says the situation for the Roma in central and eastern Europe has become
far worse since the end of communism. "The collapse of communism caused huge
uncertainty. It created a tension that has produced an anti-Gypsy atmosphere in
Hungary. Under communism, people lived together much more peacefully. They met
at the workplace, there were friendships and mixed marriages, the Roma couldn't
be harassed openly, hospitals couldn't turn them away. Now it's normal in
hospitals to put Roma women in different wards." No wonder, she says, that the
Roma have such nostalgia for communism, which at least provided work and
security. The dog-eat-dog post-communist experience has been a vicious one for
them.

Putting on her anthropologist's hat, she says that the "majority society" finds
it far simpler to live with Gypsy stereotypes than with real people. "It's easy
for the majority population to accept a very exoticised picture of Gypsy life.
They prefer to think of them as wandering, wearing long skirts, uneducated and
inclined to criminality. It is very hard for them to cooperate with people who
are there in their everyday life as shop assistants or who are parents of kids
who are sitting next to their children in the school. They just can't cope with
that."

Jaroka brushes aside my suggestion that assimilation would obliterate Roma
identity, built up over centuries since they migrated from India and/or the
Middle East (Roma experts disagree on this and much else). "The problems we are
facing - unemployment, school segregation, poor health care, discrimination -
have nothing to do with our culture," she says. "Culture should be dealt with at
home. We don't need institutions to keep our culture alive. You decide for
yourself what your culture is. The Roma are a heterogeneous group and culture is
not static. There are a huge number of people who are reinventing Roma culture.
Some Gypsies would say that I am decultured, that I am no longer a Gypsy. But I
know that isn't true."

She believes the Roma now have a unique opportunity to make their presence felt
in Europe. "The EU has a long history of not doing anything about the Roma, but
at last there seems to be a wish to make a proper start. On the Roma side, there
is also huge expectation following accession. A lot of opportunities have been
missed in the past 50 years when the Roma could have been integrated fully. We
can't afford to miss this one."

MEPs have given her a warm welcome and even the anti-Roma ones are keeping their
mouths shut. ("It's not very fashionable here to admit you are a racist," she
says.) Her appointments diary is filling up and she is working hard to get the
other 731 MEPs to support her cause. Even Ukip have arranged to come to see her.
I warn her not to expect an immediate meeting of minds.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               35 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 14, 2004, Tuesday

Tory faces disciplinary action over Ukip 'deal'

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 444 words

A TORY candidate in a key election target seat is facing disciplinary action
after claims that he tried to do a deal with the UK Independence Party.

David Chambers, prospective candidate in Labour-held Stafford, wrote to a local
Ukip activist in September saying he was ready, if necessary, to back complete
withdrawal from the EU.

Tory Whips in the Commons are now poised to discipline Mr Chambers even though
he denies he has done a deal with the anti-EU party.

The row will revive the disarray during the 1997 election when some Tory MPs
backed a referendum on EU membership to avoid a challenge from Sir James
Goldsmith's Referendum Party.

It also comes ahead of the launch later this week of a new campaign designed to
get prospective MPs to favour pulling out of the EU.

The "330 Campaign" takes its name from the aim of achieving a new Commons in
which more than half the MPs would prefer a purely trading arrangement with
Brussels.

Mr Chambers, 55, is battling to overturn the 5,032 majority of David Kidney,
Stafford's Labour MP.

In a letter dated Sept 14 to Paul Gilbert, then Ukip's constituency chairman in
Stafford, Mr Chambers made clear his own Eurosceptic credentials.

Current Tory policy under Michael Howard is to redefine Britain's relationship
with the EU by renegotiating key treaties and bringing powers from Brussels to
Britain.

But after Ukip's breakthrough in last summer's European elections, many Tory
candidates and even some Labour ones will be wary of losing votes to the anti-EU
party.

In his letter, Mr Chambers explicitly raised the prospect of full withdrawal if
Mr Howard's approach failed to work.

"It may be that Mr Howard could achieve his pledge to bring back powers from
Brussels to Britain but, if he cannot, then I would call for a referendum to be
held.

"The referendum [question] would be simple: do the British people wish to remain
in the EU - Yes or No? I would vote No and I would campaign to that effect,"
wrote the Tory candidate.

Mr Gilbert said last night that the local Ukip association later agreed, on the
basis of the letter, not to field a candidate against the Tory.

That announcement was highlighted in the November issue of the local
Conservative newsletter, featuring Mr Gilbert and Mr Chambers shaking hands
under the headline: "Local Ukip chairman backs Chambers."

Last night, Mr Gilbert said he was sure the Tory candidate had been seeking an
agreement with Ukip locally.

However, Mr Chambers yesterday denied that he had tried to do a deal with a
rival party.

Mr Chambers's letter was "not acceptable" although he would not face
de-selection, a Tory Party spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               36 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 14, 2004, Tuesday

Romania shows up EU corruption

SECTION: Features; 14

LENGTH: 109 words


From Mrs Val Cowell.

Sir, I am unimpressed by crocodile tears from Chris Davies over corruption in
Romania.

Last May, UKIP MEPs, with help from their colleagues in France and the
Netherlands, presented to the European Parliament a motion of censure to be
served on the European Commission regarding its failure to act over massive
financial fraud in the EU's statistical office.

Chris Davies voted against the motion, as did many UK Labour and Conservative
MEPs.

Yours faithfully, VAL COWELL (Press officer, UKIP North West), 24 Northwood Way,
Poulton le Fylde, Lancashire FY6 8AF.

val@ukindparty.fsnet.co.uk

December 9.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               37 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 13, 2004

Media: Dreading the election?: Nick Robinson suggests 10 reasons to be cheerful
to all those journalists who are already fearing the forthcoming campaign

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Guardian Media Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 952 words


Cheer up. The election's coming. What do you mean that doesn't cheer you up?
Journalists who could barely contain their excitement about the US elections now
look ahead with gloom to the long British campaign ahead, carping into their
cappuccinos. "It's going to be so dull"; "Everyone knows the result already"; "I
don't think I can bear it".

Cheer up, I say. Or move aside for someone who understands that there is
something special - magical even - about the moment the country makes its
choice. So here are my top 10 propositions to allay those pre-election blues.

1 You don't know the result: Yes, I do know what the polls say. Of course I know
how big a swing it would take to get Labour out. But then, I recall, Kinnock was
headed for Number 10 in 1992. And then there was Wilson in 1970. Let's not
forget Bob Worcester who declared the other night,"It's President Kerry", just
hours before it became plain it wasn't. Ah yes, you say, polls may get it wrong
when the race is tight, but not now the result appears to be certain. Listen
then to John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University. He says a
hung parliament could result from a rise in Lib Dem support that helps the
Tories win seats from Labour. You don't buy that? Fine. My point is you don't
know and I don't know and we shouldn't report as if we do.

2 The polls aren't the story: Polls only tell us what people say they think they
would do if today were election day. Sometimes there is a story in how
politicians react to the polls - with panic (Margaret Thatcher's "Wobbly
Wednesday"), with triumphalism (Neil Kinnock's Sheffield moment), or by changing
strategy (the birth of William "14 pints" Hague), but a poll on its own isn't a
story. And, they're dull, damn it.

3 Turnout can go up as well as down: This may well prove to be another "apathy"
election but, as America shows, it's not a one-way bet. The war in Iraq may
energise a part of the electorate that was indifferent last time. This year's
local, Euro and London mayoral contests all showed increases in turnout. In the
north east England referendum, almost half the electorate voted.

4 Voters are interesting . . . I had the good fortune to report from the road in
the run-up to the US elections. Are people here really less interesting? We may
not be able to find a match for the stetson-wearing Dodge dealer at a rodeo who
told me he wouldn't buy a used car from John Kerry, but can't we find
equivalents to the brother of a marine killed in Fallujah, who spoke movingly
about wrestling with his conscience about how to vote?

5 . . . it's the electoral horse race that's dull: What turned viewers off the
US election was pictures of endless cheering crowds, grinning candidates and
waving placards. Viewers know they're watching a confection. And they don't want
to hear us commenting ad nauseam on "the mood" in so-and-so's camp.

6 But the campaign can be interesting . . . Did you know that Labour has
technology that allows John Prescott, or rather a recording, to simultaneously
call thousands of people to tell them to get out and vote? I'm impressed; though
the couple woken up by Pressa on the line at 2am ahead of the north east
referendum were less so. Were you aware that the Tories claim to be able to
predict how you'll vote simply by feeding your postcode into a PC?

7. . . and so can policy Propose a discussion of higher education policy in a
pub and you'll clear the room. But suggest students are poverty stricken and
should get more money and you might not drink alone. Ditto bombing Iran, putting
taxes up, leaving Europe and paying mums to look after their children at home.
If you fill an hour's phone-in, you should be able to make an interesting TV
news report.

8 Negative campaigns aren't as much fun as reporters think: We're all suckers
for the witty knocking copy of US negative commercials. Yet we should be wary of
being drawn into the depressing cycle of claim, counter-claim, pre-buttal and
rebuttal which come to obsess newsrooms and party war-rooms. Anyone too young to
recall the 1992 row about Jennifer's Ear - a Labour party broadcast about a girl
awaiting an operation - should be forced to watch every report.

9 There isn't just one election: The campaign is not simply a contest between
two candidates. There will be more and more Lab/Lib fights; throw in UKIP,
Respect, the Greens, the nationalists, the independents and, yes, the BNP and
you have an unpredictable mix. Also, local results do matter to people and not
just as building blocks in a national campaign.

10 We shouldn't reinvent the rules of good reporting: This will be my fifth
general election campaign and in each I have, along with almost everyone I've
worked with, done my best to make them interesting. Where we've gone wrong is
when we've forgotten the rules of good reporting. Thus we've had over-extended
news bulletins and stop watch measures of balance, producing strings of tedious
and contradictory soundbites, dull "issue" reports and the like. We are fairly
and legally under a requirement for balance at election time, but if that leads
us to produce unwatchable reporting, we are getting something badly wrong. We
should identify the story of the day and tell it as compellingly as we can.

Convinced? No? Well, like it or not the election's coming and we have a duty to
make it interesting.

Nick Robinson is political editor of ITV News. A longer version of this article
appears in the British Journalism Review, Volume 15 Number 4, available from
SAGE Publications, 1 Oliver's Yard, 55 City Road, London EC1Y 1SP. Subscription
hotline: 020 7324 8703. Email: subscription@ sagepub.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               38 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           December 12, 2004, Sunday

The voter suggestions a Tory hopeful must ignore

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 17

LENGTH: 100 words


What are going to be the big issues at the next election? Keen-as-mustard Tory
candidate Iain Dale decided to find out by conducting a comprehensive survey of
voters in North Norfolk, the seat he will be fighting.

He sent out a questionnaire to each voter, asking: "What single thing would you
suggest to improve the quality of life in your area?" Here are three of the
radical schemes that were suggested to Dale: letting down all the tyres on
Margaret Beckett's caravan; the introduction of communism (and this from a UKIP
voter); for you to f*** off back to London where you belong.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus; Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 11, 2004, Saturday

BTW

BYLINE: TERENCE BLACKER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 423 words


At first, I was outraged. Within weeks of the death of John Peel, a man who came
to represent a certain decent, if slightly frayed, kind of Englishness, not one
but two instant biographies appeared in the bookshops. Peel's brother, Francis
Ravenscroft, described their publication as "unseemly... really just
ambulance-chasing". Transworld, which will publish the official Peel
autobiography/biography, pronounced itself "saddened". That made me sit up. Like
any half-awake publisher, Transworld has always been happy to hijack any passing
bandwagon. The idea publishing should remain aloof as newspapers, magazines and
TV exploits events, to make a quick buck is rooted in a sort of snobbery.
Spivviness still has a place in the world of books, thank goodness.


The story of the terrible thing that almost happened to Oona King, on the other
hand, is more worrying.The MP, you will recall, has revealed that in 1991, when
she was 24, a Labour MEP offered her pounds 10,000 out of his cost allowance if
she would sleep with him. pounds 10,000! My first thought was the revelation was
a gift to the cause of UKIP. So now we know how our representatives in Brussels
spend their allowances - the fat cats go out tom-catting. It seems odd, this
episode - more the sort of thing that happens in Hollywood films than in real
life. Or perhaps I'm wrong and, in the worlds of business and politics, there
are more offers of this kind than one would imagine. After all, marriages and
affairs are often based on an unspoken economic understanding, so why not a
fling?


In his book Waterlog, which celebrated the joys of swimming in wild,
unchlorinated water, the environmentalist Roger Deakin praised the City of
London Corporation for the enlightened way it encouraged swimming in the ponds
of Hampstead. It was one of the true, unspoilt pleasures of living in London.
Not any more. The corporation has announced it is considering whether to close
all three ponds. The novelist Deborah Moggach has written an outraged letter to
the local paper, championing "the most wonderful experience in the world; the
herons, the dragonflies, the secrecy and exhilaration" and a campaign of
protest, to be found at saveourswimming@yahoo.co.uk.


I suppose, out of generational solidarity, one should support the stand of a
couple in Florida who became so fed up with the lazy, boorish behaviour of their
teenage children that they have gone on strike. There is no sign yet of either
side cracking yet but I know where my money is.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               40 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 10, 2004, Friday

Cash faces Ukip challenge

SECTION: News; In brief Pg. 07

LENGTH: 40 words

Bill Cash, one of the Tories' leading Eurosceptic MPs, is to face a poll
challenge from the UK Independence Party.

The anti-EU party is to field a candidate in Mr Cash's constituency of Stone,
Staffs, where he has a majority of 6,036.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               41 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 10, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 512 words


MORE than a decade after being axed by TV-am, one-time celebrity chef Rustie Lee
has ambitiously set her sights on the House of Commons, Hickey hears.

Larger-than-life Rustie, whose show was once dropped after claims - which she
denied - that she had accepted backhanders for plugging products on the show,
has been selected by the UK Independence Party to stand in the Midlands seat of
Wyre Forest.

She will be taking on the constituency's MP, the independent Dr Richard Taylor,
who trounced Labour at the last election following a long-running campaign to
prevent the downgrading of facilities at Kidderminster Hospital.

A Ukip spokesman says: "She's local. She has been a member for nine months,
spoke very well at our conference and is dedicated to the cause." At least the
standard of party lunches might improve. . .

AMONG celebrity contributors to a new collection of festive children's tales -
Christmas Stories, produced by Selfridges in aid of the Teenage Cancer Trust -
is a poem from socialite-turned-presenter Tara Palmer-Tomkinson. Tara waxes
lyrical thus:

There was once a little girl who lived in a cake, Her bedroom took only one hour
to bake.

Don't give up the day job Tara (whatever that is).

HEALTH SECRETARY John Reid doesn't appear to be practising what he preaches when
it comes to tackling obesity. The teetotaller recently laid on a lavish spread
for medical and political journalists. But there was not a grilled vegetable or
lentil in sight.

"There were greasy sausages wrapped in bacon, mini-pies and crates of decent red
and white wine, " reports Hickey's spy, letting out his waistband. "The food was
delicious but it was a cholesterol-buster when it came to counting the
calories."

MICHAEL PORTILLO is discovering that the lot of a theatre critic is not an easy
one.

The outgoing Tory MP for Kensington and Chelsea has been providing stage reviews
for the New Statesman magazine and Portillo feels the role might have spelt the
end of his political career had he not decided to end it himself already.

"The editor sends me to review some quite adult shows and I have had to write
frankly about disagreeable things such as incest and repeat some very rude words
that I hear on stage, " confides the, ahem, shy and retiring ex-minister.

"De-selection from my seat might be a real possibility if I were not stepping
down."

How lucky that you are then, eh?

PETRONELLA WYATT, Boris Johnson's former lover, may have endured a torrid time
of late but she is anxious to ensure that everyone in her household enjoys the
high life. Recalling the time when her treasured hound Mimi began "shaking" and
making "horrible choking sounds", Petronella decided a few swigs of champagne
would be the ideal cure for her canine companion.

"I felt pretty miserable, as it was good champagne, " writes Petsy in The
Spectator magazine. "She smelt it, as if testing the bouquet. Then she began to
gulp it down like a lush. Suddenly, the shaking stopped.

So did the choking."

But would the RSPCA approve?

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               42 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 9, 2004

Little Britain: Ukip opens seaside souvenir shop

BYLINE: Sandra Laville

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353 words


It provides everything an ardent Eurosceptic could want under one roof with not
a brussel sprout, french letter or turkish delight in sight.

Instead the first UK Independence party corner shop in Britain offered
anglophiles a selection of natty dressing gowns in towelling or velour, a wide
range of T-shirts and ties - all of which come with mix and match pounds logos -
as well as FU-EU stickers, badges and keyrings.

Judging by the till at the end of trading yesterday, the shop in Ramsgate, Kent,
could be the first in a national chain of patriotic convenience stores and the
party has promised that Ukip & Son stores would be popping up in 30 towns across
the country before the general election.

"We've sold 20 dressing gowns so far," said Mike Taylor, the shop manager. "They
cost £22.50 and are going so well I'm going to have to restock tomorrow."

While the thought of a member of Ukip wearing nothing but a velour dressing gown
may put many off their tea, it did not stop the residents of Ramsgate flocking
to buy what proved to be the other best seller yesterday: the Ukip mug at £4. In
time, said Nigel Farage MEP, the mug might come with a picture of Ukip's MEPs.

Mr Farage, the leader of Ukip's MEPs in Strasbourg, was on hand yesterday to
open the store, before leaving for a branch meeting of the Thanet South
constituency for his selection as general election candidate in the seat once
held by Jonathan Aitken. He did not need worry, though, being the only candidate
for selection.

Brandishing a bright green Keep the Pound sign - priced at £8 - he said: "This
one is for those who want to beat the Germans to the sun loungers."

But Mr Farage and the party leader Roger Knapman are trying to head off a
leadership challenge from Robert Kilroy-Silk (whose face will not be gracing any
mug) after the former chatshow host won the support of 51 branch chairmen
-enough to force an emergency general meeting to ballot on whether to hold a
vote of all the members.

Locking up last night, Mr Farage promised to purchase a towelling dressing gown
on his next visit.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               43 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 9, 2004, Thursday

THE YES CAMPAIGN MAY BE LEADERLESS BUT IT CAN STILL WIN THE REFERENDUM ON EUROPE

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1187 words


Europe is back. The issue that has a unique capacity to wreck British
governments and split political parties is about to cause unpredictable havoc
once more. This week the precise question to be posed, in a referendum on the
European constitution, has been leaked. The No campaign was already up and
running, confident of an historic victory. Meanwhile, there are signs of
tactical divisions at the top of the government over how to make the
pro-European case in the run up to a referendum.

Indeed, here is an early example of the bizarre chaos the issue of Europe is
capable of causing. Although the Yes campaign lacks leadership, its leaders
already appear to be split. Peter Mandelson warns about the dangers of gloating
over the British economy. Gordon Brown points out that sometimes even Michael
Howard gloats about economic successes in Britain. Mr Mandelson seeks a greater
emphasis on the positive elements of Europe. Mr Brown highlights British
successes and the need the Europe to embrace more extensive reform.

On the surface at least, pro-Europeans have cause to be depressed. The polls are
bleak. There is no clear leadership. There is also no escape. Increasingly it is
the view in ministerial circles that a referendum will take place in Britain.
Senior ministers predict that, in the referendums being held elsewhere in
Europe, there will be a succession of "yes" votes. The Europe Minister, Denis
Macshane, points out that quite often in Britain there is an assumption that
controversial European initiatives will not be implemented. Nearly always the
policies are in place on schedule. He is one of those who believes no other
country will veto the constitution before Britain decides.

Seeking any possible advantage, there were some brief ministerial discussions
about the nature of the question to be posed in the referendum. One or two
ministers suggested that there should be a reference to the parliamentary
approval of the constitution, necessary before the referendum can take place, in
order at least to convey a more positive tone. Very quickly it was decided that
the question should be straightforward and neutral. In around 18 months time
British voters will be answering the question: "Should the United Kingdom
approve the treaty establishing a Constitution for the European Union?"

At the moment the response would be a loud "no". Yet that could easily change in
the next 18 months. The occasional public spat between Mr Brown and Mr Mandelson
does not reflect a fatal divide at the top of the government over the
referendum. Mr Brown will play a high-profile role in the campaign, almost
certainly as Chancellor. Indeed one of the reasons I do not believe Mr Blair
will move him after the election is the influential role he could play in the
referendum. It would be impossible for Mr Brown to hide for the duration of the
campaign or the months preceding it even if he wished to do so. Jack Straw,
regarded as another sceptical minister, will also be out there campaigning.
Indeed he is already out there. Earlier this week he delivered a weighty speech
to the Centre For European Reform warning in considerable detail about the
dangers of rejecting the constitution.

Senior ministers have finally realised the issue cannot be ignored until the
election is safely out of the way. Almost certainly the bill that gives the
go-ahead for a referendum will be debated in the Commons next month. This will
be one of the few occasions when a parliamentary event attracts wider interest.
The government's familiar position will come under scrutiny, but the
Conservatives will have questions to answer as well. Michael Howard has still to
explain how a Conservative government would successfully reject the Constitution
and renegotiate existing EU treaties without the support of any other countries.

In timing and in tone, the referendum on the constitution is beginning to look
increasingly similar to the one that took place in 1975 on Britain's continuing
membership. In October 1974 Harold Wilson fought an election campaign promising
a referendum, but without Europe being a dominating theme. By June 1975 he was
able to win a referendum.The Yes campaign stood reassuringly for the status quo
as Britain was already a member of the common market. A "no" vote was seen as
the more unpredictable break with the status quo.

The same argument applies in the context of the European Constitution, only more
so: if there is a "no" vote Britain would be going it alone while causing chaos
in the rest of Europe. This factor alone may influence some of the more
thoughtful Euro-sceptics to vote "yes". To take one example, the former Foreign
Secretary, Dr David Owen, disapproves of the constitution and plans to vote
against. In a recent interview he told me he would hesitate in doing so if there
had been a series of decisive "yes" votes elsewhere leaving Britain as the
country responsible for leaving the EU in near terminal anarchy.

Those already campaigning for a "no" vote cannot agree on the consequences of
such chaos. At least the United Kingdom Independence Party argue openly and
logically that a "no" vote would result in Britain leaving the European Union.
Others argue, with more perversity, that a rejection of the constitution would
leave Britain in a stronger position within the European Union. Here is an
ideological split that will lead inevitably to a confused and incoherent message
from the No campaign.

The government plans to use its presidency of the EU in the second half of next
year to put the case for Europe and the dangers of withdrawal. Some
pro-Europeans want a formal campaign to start now and seek a more evangelical
message about the virtues of Europe. Such an approach might work in a country at
ease with Europe but in Britain pragmatic stealth is likely to produce more
practical results, as it did when Harold Wilson waved his political wand in
1975.

In many ways it is odd that a conjuror's wand is required once more. During the
heated debates in the House of Commons in the early 1990s over the Maastricht
Treaty, Conservative MPs put forward their alternative vision of a less
integrationist, enlarged EU. At a time when their vision has been realised they
contrive to be in an even greater fury and look with increasing passion towards
a new relationship with the United States. But senior pro-Europeans tell me that
the Bush administration is viewing the possibility of a "no" vote in Britain
with some alarm. President Bush could yet repay his old Prime Ministerial friend
by making clear that Britain is best placed to form a relationship with the US
as a leading member of the EU. What a twist: "Bush swings Europe referendum for
Blair".

If there is a "no" vote, Europe's latest contribution to the remaking of British
politics would be the near destruction of new Labour and the Liberal Democrats.
Against the odds, I regard it as more likely that the Conservative party will be
forced to change, to its own long term benefit, in the light of a convincing Yes
victory.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               44 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 8, 2004, Wednesday

MY GREAT BLUE YONDER;
 CHURCH-GOER, ART-GALLERY OWNER, MIDDLE-CLASS MUM: NICKY HEYWORTH

BYLINE: NICKY HEYWORTH On the campaign trail: Nicky Heyworth never misses an
opportunity to put in a good word for the Tories, even at work in her gallery
Jim Wileman

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1273 words


Since we moved to Devon six years ago, we've been going to church on Sundays.
Not every week, but quite frequently. Throwleigh Church, which we attend, is
old, beautiful and welcoming, and on a normal Sunday about 10 people take part
in the service.

Throwleigh Church relies on a small group of dedicated people to assist at
services, prepare readings, organise keys, cleaning, flowers and heating, and
keep the books in order. But the men and women keeping it going are frail, and
need help. I don't want the responsibility of looking after the church, but
because Devon's historic churches are our repositories of peace, of who we were,
I can't stand by. I shall have to find out what needs to be done.

Earlier this year, the chairman of the Throwleigh & Gidleigh branch of the
Conservative Party, Douglas Mackenzie, asked if I would be interested in
replacing him. It wouldn't take much, he said - just chairing a few meetings,
taking minutes and organising a couple of fundraisers. I felt much the same way
as I do about Throwleigh Church: I didn't want the responsibility and didn't
have the time. I've not even always been a Conservative - sometimes I've voted
Green. But Douglas had asked me, and how could I say no?

So, not long afterwards, I found myself sitting at Douglas's dining- room table
with a small group of elderly, kindly and immensely courteous people. We
discussed plans for the bring-and-buy sale in the village hall. Who could make a
cake? There were anxious warnings about trying to do too much. Arrangements were
made for booking the hall and manning the coffee stall. I asked about
advertising and promoting the event, and was told that we'd put up A4 posters in
two or three locations. I thought to myself that it would save a lot of time if
we just wrote out a cheque, but it seemed rude to suggest that, so instead I
moved tables and chairs about, and took 50p pieces for cups of coffee. I didn't
want to hurt anybody's feelings, but I couldn't see that our activities were
likely to ruin the sleep of anyone in Downing Street.

I really don't know how our friends and neighbours in Devon vote. I joined
because I was asked, and my plan is to ask everyone to vote for the
Conservatives. To this end, I have invited everyone I can think of to a
Political Party next week. The idea is to have a debate, with everybody who
feels so inclined able to have his or her say for a couple of minutes. We have a
large school bell, which will ring to start and halt each speech. The outside
stone staircase will serve as a podium, and we'll have a sound system that
works. I haven't spoken to Andy the butcher yet, but it will probably be cold so
I'll ask him to spit-roast a couple of sheep - the fire will keep people warm
and we all think better when we're well fed. Politicians of any persuasion are
welcome to come, but they will get the same time as anybody else in which to
make their case. Dress code: wellies and warm coats.

I've asked everybody to bring a short list of the issues that matter to them and
I'll forward the compiled list to Geoffrey Cox, the Conservative parliamentary
candidate for Torridge & West Devon, and to Michael Howard. I hope very much
that people with more experience, more tact and much more understanding of
government than I have will come forward. I want to sign up as many new
Conservative Party members as possible, because I want Howard to believe he can
win the next election. Believing you can win is the first step towards winning.

I expected to encounter resistance, embarrassment and hostility when I began
asking people how they plan to vote. I've had one or two say that they prefer
not to discuss politics, but overwhelmingly the reaction has been one of almost
explosive relief. The UPS man, the garage attendant, the man who dug our
drainage ditches, the lovely girl in Spar, my neighbours, visitors to my art
gallery - they've all poured out their feelings of frustration and dismay. When
I explain what I'm up to, they've been delighted to think that something
positive may be happening at last.

The other really surprising thing to happen has been an almost universal
commendation of my "bravery". I don't feel particularly brave - in many ways,
I've been almost scared. I've made myself approach people who look as remote
from the Tory stereotype as possible, but I've come to realise that there's no
such thing. For me, the word "Conservative" has to be broadened out to mean
"conservation" of this beautiful country, and our fragile world.

Devon has been kind to us since we came here, and I feel a debt to everyone for
their acceptance of us "blow-ins". I am engaged with this place, and these
people, and I am now clear that we all deserve better than this Government. In
particular, the hunting ban will hurt a lot of people locally. Our horse is a
hairy disgrace with no brakes, but it is through our sporadic attempts at
hunting that we've met many of the most generous-spirited and amusing people we
know. A hunting "meet" is exactly that: a chance to meet and share news. Country
people live isolated lives; the hunt pulls them together, and it is a great
leveller.

Tony Blair's methods since he became Prime Minister have called into question
everything I thought I knew about our parliamentary democracy. Without a massive
increase in support, the Conservative Party will not be able to arrest its
decline. We either throw in the towel, or we turn and fight. Not being by nature
a towel thrower, I propose to use every ounce of energy I have to get support
for the party.

I will ask people who have voted Liberal Democrat in the past to vote for the
Conservatives, if only just this once, because I think the Conservatives can win
against Labour, whereas the Liberal Democrats cannot. I will ask people who
voted UKIP to vote Conservative, because the 2,000 UKIP votes in Devon in the
last election cost the Conservatives this seat. I will ask people who voted
Labour last time to vote Conservative, because I believe that many of them share
my absolute disgust at the way we were misled into the Iraq war, and know that
the only way to end that war is to get Blair out of Downing Street.

I visualise a virus of political activism spreading out across the UK. I feel
like Martin Luther King: I have a dream, and that dream is to hold Blair to
account.

I think the energy I have dedicated to my project has startled a few people. It
has certainly startled my husband, but, as my daughter has pointed out, he has
no one to blame but himself. After all, it was he who said at the end of one of
my rants about George Bush or the dreadful traffic on the M5: "There's no point
in telling me about it. Write to Today, or the newspapers." So I did. While
writing, I found I was becoming more and more enraged.

But being angry is not enough. I need help to understand where we should really
be trying to take this country. All our children will live with the consequences
of the political decisions being taken now, in our names. If you want change and
if, indeed, Blair is planning a spring election, you don't have long. Or are you
still working on the assumption that somebody else will do it? Well, I'm Mrs Bog
Standard, and up till this year, I, too, have been making the assumption that
"somebody else will do it". However, this year Mr and Mrs Bog Standard, busy
though they are running their businesses, paying the mortgage and worrying about
this and that, have glanced out of the window, and discovered that they no
longer recognise the country they live in. For me, change is only a matter of
time.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               45 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 07, 2004, Tuesday

Aitken finally decides not to stand for UKIP

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 176 words

I have bad news for anyone anticipating a political comeback from Jonathan
Aitken at the general election.

For Spy hears that, after pondering the idea for some months, the former Tory
Cabinet minister has decided against donning the UKIP rosette in his former
South Thanet constituency.

"I have thought a lot about it, but I am working very hard, with heavy
commitments in the US as an author," he tells the Isle of Thanet Gazette. "I've
also got all sorts of personal reasons for being hesitant about returning to the
political arena."

But, referring to the recent arguments surrounding the party's leadership, he
adds: "The UKIP splits at the top have made my decision very easy."

None the less, a UKIP spokesman insists that the party will put up a strong
fight in the Kent seat.

"Jonathan has been banging the drum for us recently and will be helping our
candidate in South Thanet at the election," he told Spy yesterday.

Their candidate has yet to be named, but the name of MEP Nigel Farage is being
seriously touted by party insiders.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               46 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 07, 2004, Tuesday

Europe's natural religion is paganism

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 19

LENGTH: 31 words

SIR - I have just purchased my tickets for UKIP's Christmas draw. First prize:
three days for two in Brussels (by Eurostar). A pilgrimage, obviously.

David Parsons

Deepcut, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               47 of 61 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 7, 2004, Tuesday

KILROY-SILT;
 UKIP MEP IS DRENCHED IN SLURRY ATTACK

BYLINE: PATRICK MULCHRONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 182 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPLAT: Kilroy's drenched as he gets out car; GOTCHA: Kilroy, right,
wrestles attacker; SMELLY: Kilroy's covered head to toe in muck; HUNT:Slurry man


THIS is the moment Robert Kilroy-Silk had a stinking bucket of slurry thrown
over him by a protester.

The former chatshow host and Ukip Euro MP, 62, was attacked as he stepped out of
his chauffeur-driven Jaguar.

His face, hair, dark blue suit, shirt, tie and shoes were splattered with the
brown muck. The car was also covered.

As the ginger-bearded demonstrator hurled the manure on him, he screamed: "God
is great. You have insulted my religion. This is in the name of Islam."

The incident was sparked by Kilroy's controversial remarks in a newspaper about
Arabs, which cost him his TV job.

Furious Kilroy grabbed the attacker by the throat and rubbed some of the slurry
in his face but he fled afterwards.

Kilroy said: "I grabbed him and said, 'Oh you like s**t, do you?' Have some of
it back'. This is about trying to bully and intimidate people they disagree
with."

Kilroy was in Manchester for Radio 4's Any Questions when the attacker pounced.
He cleaned himself up and did the debate show in jeans, T-shirt and bare feet.
Police are hunting the attacker.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               48 of 61 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 7, 2004, Tuesday

KILROY-SILK DUNG OVER

BYLINE: PATRICK MULCHRON

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 94 words

HIGHLIGHT: SMELLY: Robert


TV presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk had a stinking bucket of slurry thrown over him
by a protester.

The former chat show host and Ukip Euro MP, 62, was attacked as he stepped out
of his chauffeur-driven Jaguar.

The demonstrator hurled the manure and screamed: "God is great. You have
insulted my religion. This is in the name of Islam."

The incident was sparked by Kilroy's controversial remarks in a newspaper about
Arabs, which cost him his TV job.

Furious Kilroy grabbed the attacker by the throat and rubbed some of the slurry
in his face.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               49 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                December 6, 2004

Kilroy showered in filth

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 10; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 685 words


THESE were the dramatic scenes when Robert Kilroy-Silk was involved in a furious
clash with a protester who showered him with a bucketful of slurry.

The politician's face was spattered and his expensive suit was drenched in the
attack, before a recording of Radio 4's Any Questions.

An outraged Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was sacked from his BBC TV talk show after
disparaging Arabs, grabbed the bearded man by the throat and was heard to say:
'If you want s**t, I'll give you s**t.' He rubbed his filthy clothes in the
man's face, smearing him in horse manure.

The 62-year-old MEP then buttoned up his sodden suit and headed off to clean
himself up in a washroom at the programme venue, Manchester High School for
Girls.

Meanwhile his driver and a school caretaker grabbed the 6ft protester intending
to hold him until police arrived to arrest him, but he managed to break free and
escape.

Mr Kilroy-Silk took part in the programme wearing a T-shirt and jeans lent to
him by a teacher, and no shoes.

The incident was apparently prompted by remarks which led to the BBC dismissing
him from his morning show Kilroy early this year.

In a newspaper column, he referred to Arabs as 'suicide bombers, limb
amputators, women repressors'. He said Arabs 'murdered more than 3,000 civilians
on September 11' and then 'danced in the streets to celebrate'.

The controversial article also included comments saying the toppling of despotic
regimes in the Middle East should be a war aim, and questioned the contribution
of the Arab nations to world welfare and civilisation.

As Mr Kilroy-Silk arrived for Friday night's radio programme, in the same car as
Cabinet Office Minister Ruth Kelly, the protester lunged at him shouting: 'God
is great. You have insulted my religion. This is in the name of Islam' before
pouring the bucket of slurry over him. Some of the evil-smelling liquid is
believed also to have landed on Miss Kelly.

The former TV presenter's response bore a striking similarity to Deputy Prime
Minister John Prescott's attack on a protester who pelted him with an egg in
2001 as he arrived for a speech.

Mr Prescott punched the man in the face.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP and until recently a member of the UK
Independence Party, said later that he had at first thought the attacker was a
hunt protester because he was throwing horse manure.

'I grabbed the man and said, "Oh, you like s**t do you. Have some of it back."

'As I was walking away he said, "You've insulted my religion. You've insulted
Islam".' The politician said he had no regrets over his actions. 'I was angry
and I don't like people who are cowards. I have been brought up to defend
myself.

'I wanted to transfer the s**t back on to him.

'I'm not a politician, I'm a real person. I don't care what people think. I
don't walk away, I've never walked away from a fight in my life and I never
will.

'This is all about trying to bully and intimidate people they disagree with.

Trying to stifle people who have strong legitimate opinions and express them
robustly as I do.

'There are some people who are intolerant of other people's views.

They resort to burning books, getting people sacked from their jobs as they did
in my case and now physically assaulting them.' Inspector Brian Sheeran of
Greater Manchester Police said the incident was being treated as criminal damage
and said officers were still investigating but added: 'There is no direct line
of inquiry at the moment.'

Mark Herlihy, a spokesman for the BBC, said the corporation could not make a
comment on the incident as it had happened outside the school where the
programme took place.

1 As Kilroy emerges from his car he is drenched

2 Outraged at the attack, he turns on the bearded protester, pins him against a
wall and rubs the slurry over him

3 The driver pitches in, grabbing the protester intending to hold him until
police arrive

4 The sodden politician heads off to clean up

5 After the protester gave him the slip, Kilroy's driver examines the damage to
the spattered car

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MUDDIED BUT UNBOWED: KILROY HAS NO REGRETS ABOUT 'DOING A PRESCOTT'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               50 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 6, 2004

Radio review: A giddy social whirl

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 434 words


Radio 4 on Friday: "Current thinking in social work is that one shouldn't tell
the child they're bad, one should say the act was bad." No, not a worthy
documentary but the wonderful Clare in the Community . Two episodes in, it's
clear that, with this adaptation of Harry Venning's Guardian cartoon about a
social worker, Radio 4's found a really funny sitcom. Sally Phillips delivers
Clare's PC pronouncements perfectly deadpan, making them all the more
entertaining. Who'd have thought Clare would sound so cut-glass? She does, and
it's now impossible to imagine her any other way. Hurrah - there are four
episodes still to come.

From Our Own Correspondent (Radio 4, Satur day) is the BBC at its very best,
often because its reports, from around the world, are so sobering. Caroline
Wyatt's piece this week took a different tack - it was about the news that Tom
Hanks will star in the film of The Da Vinci Code. As she sought reactions in
Paris, where the book begins, Wyatt threw herself into the style of the
mega-bestselling thriller. So, interviewing a press officer for the Catholic
organisation Opus Dei: "I speak to the man on the phone, so I can't tell if he's
an unusually large albino monk or if he's wearing a spiked belt around his leg."

Visiting the church of St Sulpice, a key site in the novel, Wyatt met a tour
guide who'd become rather tired of explaining to tourists that, in fact, not
everything in The Da Vinci Code is true, and then being accused of covering up
the evils of the Catholic Church. The Opus Dei spokesman suggested that the
book's pacy conspiracy theory was all too easy to take at face value,
"especially by those without much knowledge or culture on which to base their
beliefs". "He means Americans," said Wyatt, perhaps unnecessarily.

Arriving to appear on Any Questions (Radio 4, Friday), Robert Kilroy-Silk had a
bucket of liquid manure tipped over his head. This might explain why he was so
dyspeptic, or it might not. No one was safe from his bile - David Blunkett and
his own party, Ukip, got a savaging - but he got most aerated when the subject
came up of his notorious column containing incendiary views on Arabs. "I was
investigated by the police for six months for telling the truth," he said
indignantly. "For expressing your views," corrected ringmaster Jonathan
Dimbleby. Another panellist noted that, despite a change of clothes, the odour
emanating from Mr Kilroy-Silk was most off-putting.

Tidings of great joy: Kenton's finally been dumped by Kathy in The Archers
(Radio 4, all week).

Camilla Redmond

Sally Phillips


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               51 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                December 6, 2004

ROBERT KILROY SILK

BYLINE: Rikki Brown

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 24 words


A PROTESTER poured a bucket of slurry over UKIP MEP Robert Kilroy Silk.

The attack left him all brown and shiny. No change there then.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               52 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            December 5, 2004, Sunday

READERS' EDITOR: FORGIVE US OUR TRESPASSES ...

BYLINE: MICHAEL WILLIAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 439 words


Vengeful lovers, disputed children, wronged husbands, a fast-tracked visa, kiss
and tell. Who's right and who's wrong? You'd be excused if you thought the week
has seemed like an extended version of the Moral Maze - and I had hoped to be
give readers a bit of respite in this column. But instead, I find myself obliged
to turn to God.

Kathryn Jones writes from Workington: "I looked in vain for a single positive
reference to religion in The Independent on Sunday last week. All I could find
were references to Protestants and Catholics in Ulster or Muslims and Jews in
the Middle East. You make no mention of the greatest Christian festival Advent,
which began on your day of publication. More than a million people go to church
every Sunday. Don't you count them among your readers. Or don't you care?"

There's not an easy answer, Mrs Jones. At one time we used to run a weekly item
which some staff nicknamed "the God slot". It was written by our religious
affairs correspondent and had a remit to cover what you might call the positive
side of faith. We also used to carry a little item called "Saint of the Week".
This sounded like a good idea at the time. But maybe there are more sinners than
saints around these days?

It is in no way an excuse, but none of the other Sunday papers carries a regular
religious column either, although it is a tradition which the Saturday editions
of the quality daily papers still continue. Our sister paper's is called "Faith
and Reason" and appears every week.

So why are the Sunday papers so apparently godless (although we should probably
not expect the News of the World and the Star on Sunday to kneel at the altar).
I turned to Catherine Pepinster, former comment editor of this newspaper, and
now the editor of the distinguished Catholic journal The Tablet, who thinks we
are missing a trick. "More young people than ever are interested in religion.
You only need to look at the increase in people taking theology courses at
university. If editors were to take them more seriously they could gain
readers."

Regrettably, divine retribution may have descended already in the form of an
embarrassing blunder in the reporting of our opinion poll on the front page last
week. In error, we printed the previous month's figures for the change in the
standing of the parties. The figures should have been: Labour, 42 per cent, up
three points since the end of October; Conservatives, 31 per cent, down two,
liberal Democrats, 20 per cent, up three. Other parties, including UKIP, were
also down. Forgive us our trespasses ...

Email: readerseditor@ independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               53 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           December 05, 2004, Sunday

Hannan wants it both ways

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 261 words

Like all conspiracy theorists, Dan Hannan tends to lose his own plot (Foreign
News, November 28). He writes that we "didn't want to find anything" in the
record of a commissioner who has been involved in a party funding scandal.

In the next breath he denounces us for finding fault with Ingrida Udre, the
Latvian nominee who also faced questions about party funding scandals. The
difference was this: we didn't know about Barrot. Those who did chose to reveal
the facts immediately after the vote.

In the case of Mrs Udre, whose hearing I co-chaired, she was not excluded for
her views on tax harmonisation - which were not so different from my own - but
Mr Barroso was asked to investigate the allegations made against her concerning
the funding of the Farmers & Green Alliance in Latvia. That is exactly what
Barrot's interlocutors should have done, had his conviction not been amnestied
away.

The hearings are intended to seek out those candidates who have buffed up their
own record. The committee concerned missed the French polishing where Barrot was
concerned. Eurosceptic glee was unrestrained.

But do Mr Hannan and his allies really want a process of scrutiny that makes for
a better Commission? No, of course they don't. They would love to have "dolts,
shysters and retreads" around. Yet if this description fits any group it is the
Europhobes of UKIP, who are fast squeezing Desperate Dan and his ilk out of
business.

Philip Whitehead MEP

Chairman, European Parliament

Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               54 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 4, 2004

Slurry tipped over Kilroy

BYLINE: Paul Owen

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 205 words


Robert Kilroy Silk had a bucket of slurry tipped over him last night.

The Eurosceptic MEP was attacked on arriving to appear on BBC Radio 4's Any
Questions? at a Manchester school. Some of the slurry also struck the Cabinet
Office minister, Ruth Kelly. The MEP said his assailant (over 6ft and white)
shouted: "You've offended my religion, I'm doing this in the name of Islam." A
school worker apprehended the man.

Mr Kilroy Silk said he told his attacker: "You obviously like shit, have some
back." He claimed he had "gently massaged it into his hair and spread it across
his face". The man was allowed to go while the MEP changed his clothes.

He said afterward: "This is what happens when people can't deal with free
speech."

In January, he stepped down as presenter of Kilroy after being taken off air by
BBC bosses for describing Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women
repressors".

He was elected East Midlands MEP as a member of the UK Independence party, but
has since resigned the party whip. Speaking on Any Questions? he said he hoped
to be elected leader before Christmas. A Ukip spokesman later said this would be
impossible, because 70 days' notice was required for an election.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               55 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 4, 2004, Saturday

PROTESTER THROWS BUCKET OF SLURRY OVER KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: JAMES BURLEIGH

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 236 words


THE EURO-MP Robert Kilroy-Silk had a bucket of farm slurry thrown over him last
night as he turned up for a radio show.

The former chat-show host was attacked as he arrived at Manchester High School
for Girls to take part in BBC Radio 4's Any Questions? Some of the slurry also
hit the Cabinet Office minister Ruth Kelly, who was walking into the building
with Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62.

At the start of the programme, the host Jonathan Dimbleby told listeners what
had happened to the panel member, who had to clean himself up and change his
clothes.

The MEP, who was elected as a member of the UK Independence Party but has since
resigned the party's whip, said his assailant had shouted: "In the name of
Islam." In January this year, Mr Kilroy-Silk stepped down as presenter of Kilroy
after being taken off the air by BBC bosses following his description of Arabs
in his Sunday Express column as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women
repressors".

A BBC spokesman said last night: "About 20 minutes before the programme went to
air, Mr Kilroy-Silk was coming into the building with Ruth Kelly and as they
were entering someone came along with a bucket of farmyard slurry, shouted
something at him, threw it over him and ran off."

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police said officers took statements at the
scene and were currently investigating the incident but no arrests had been
made.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               56 of 61 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 4, 2004, Saturday

KILROY HIT BY SLURRY

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 72 words


ROBERT Kilroy Silk was drenched in farm slurry by protesters last night over his
remarks about Arabs.

The Euro MP and ex-UK Independence Party member was covered from head to foot as
he arrived for Radio 4's Question Time in Manchester.

He said on air that an attacker shouted: "In the name of Islam."

In January Kilroy Silk, 61, branded Arabs "suicide bombers, limb amputators and
women repressors" in a newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               57 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                December 4, 2004

KILROY IN MANURE

LENGTH: 87 words


FORMER TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk had a bucket of slurry poured over him last
night -20 minutes before he was due on a live radio show.

He had to borrow fresh clothes before appearing on Radio 4's Any Questions? in
Manchester.

He told listeners the attacker had shouted: "In the name of Islam."

Kilroy-Silk, 62, now a UK Independence Party Euro MP, outraged Muslim leaders in
January by branding Arabs "suicide bombers, limb amputators, women repressors".
He later stepped down as host of BBC1's Kilroy.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               58 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 4, 2004, Saturday

A bucket of protest for Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: Laura Mannering

SECTION: Home news; 3

LENGTH: 216 words


A PROTESTER tipped a bucket of slurry over Robert Kilroy-Silk last night before
an appearance on a live radio show.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, the MEP and former television presenter, was attacked before he
took part in Any Questions?, the BBC Radio 4 programme presented by Jonathan
Dimbleby, which was being recorded at Manchester High School for Girls. Some
slurry hit Ruth Kelly, the Cabinet Office Minister.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, an Independent MEP for the East Midlands since resigning the UK
Independence Party whip, said that he was angry and wanted to press charges.

Police have interviewed a man.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that his attacker appeared as he got out of his car. He
said: "As I started to turn round a guy tipped a bucket of farmyard muck over me
and then threw the rest of it over me and the car.

"In the name of Islam...that's what he said as he covered me in slurry and
splashed the muck all over a government minister too. I was totally covered, it
was all through my clothes, and it stank to high heaven."

Mr Kilroy-Silk was lent some clothes but recorded the show barefoot. In January
he stepped down as presenter of Kilroy after the BBC took him off air for saying
that Arabs were "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women repressors".

Islam clash, page 55


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               59 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 3, 2004

Comment & Analysis: In France they know how to turn fantasy into reality:
Jonathan Steele in Paris For a lesson in combating political apathy, this is the
place

BYLINE: Jonathan Steele

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1112 words


Snoozing on the Eurostar the other day, I started to fantasise. Nothing
voluptuous. No nudity at all. Just a political image, though beguiling in its
quasi-credibility.

Cast your mind forward to George Bush's projected visit to London in February.
In he marches to greet his pal Tony, only to find, at the prime minister's
flanks, two other guests, Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schroder.

"Mr President," Blair announces, "here we are, your European friends.

"We disagree on a few things, but we agree on most, and particularly on the need
to deal with the world as a common front. That does not imply confrontation. It
just means that, from our side, the old competition to see who gets on best with
Washington is over and, hopefully, so are any divide-and-rule tactics from
yours. On Iran, the Middle East, and the danger of a continued western military
presence in Iraq, we three Europeans have a shared position. Please sit down and
listen."

Given that, under present plans, Bush intends to avoid Paris and Berlin, a Blair
invitation to the French and German leaders to meet the US president in London
would be a powerful boost to Blair's credentials as a committed European. It
would also get Bush off to an inescapably multilateral new start, one in which
friends can no longer so easily be flattered or insulted and in each case have
their views dismissed.

This fantasy is not only mine. The dream of a trilateral European leadership
holds sway among a surprising number of French officials, analysts and MPs in
the wake of Bush's victory. The cliche that the French prefer to be alone does
not conform to reality.

After Chirac's successful visit to London last month, Anglo-French cooperation
within the framework of a common European defence strategy is going ahead
smoothly. The two governments' initiative to form European "battle groups",
earmarked for rapid deployment for international peace-keeping at two weeks'
notice, has just been approved by European Union defence ministers, and other
countries are joining in.

The Franco-German partnership remains strong (Chirac and Schroder meet every six
weeks), though there are tactical differences as Schroder downplays his Iraq
disagreement with Washington while France speaks out. But if bilateral ties can
be reinforced by a regular troika, as happened with the Anglo-French-German
effort to control Iran's nuclear programme, so much the better.

Some French experts believe that it should be widened to a big six, to include
Italy, Poland, and Spain. The aim is not just to avoid an east-west divide but
also to heal the Iraq war splits. "We must overcome the fracture of Britain,
Italy, and Poland versus France, Spain and Germany," says Hubert Vedrine, a
former foreign minister. Others claim that Poland's love for the United States
is souring over Washington's refusal to give visa-free access.

Whatever configuration develops at the head of the European Union, the French
are not going to abandon the concepts of multipolarity and multilateralism that
Chirac outlined in London. His Guildhall speech was the most impressive given by
a European leader for years. It offered a roadmap for Europe, a geopolitical
doctrine for the EU to give strength and support to the new power centres
emerging around the world, while accepting that there is no one-size-fits-all
pattern of modernisation for different cultures.

The Elysee argues that this is not designed as a counterweight to the United
States. It is descriptive, not prescriptive. It recognises that new poles of
growth are developing in every continent. Paris wants to ensure that it gets
proper political representation in international decision-making, partly through
reform of the UN security council, but also by creating a new international
forum on the economic and social governance of globalisation, which would bring
in the world's 20 most powerful countries. Their finance ministers meet
regularly in the so-called G20. France wants this to be raised to the level of
heads of government.

Officials at the Elysee make it clear they are playing a long game. Their
attempt to build European independence and support the multipolarity of an
interdependent world will not stop when Bush's second term ends. Nor will it
change if Nicolas Sarkozy, who was crowned as the new head of Chirac's party on
Sunday, runs and wins the presidency in 2007.

But France is exciting this winter not just because of its brave and visionary
international stance. On the left, the just completed referendum within the
Socialist party on Europe's new constitution gave a new lift to domestic
politics.

In Britain only a small minority is even aware there is a constitution on the
table. While promising a referendum, Blair has kicked the issue so far beyond
the next election that few have taken it on board. Even when the referendum
approaches, Ukip and the tabloid press will lead most voters to decide on a
primitive in-or-out-of-Europe basis, rather than on the merits of the
constitution itself.

The French Socialists had a proper debate. Because it was not the "real thing"
and merely had advisory force, people were unusually free to examine the
arguments. Since the Socialists are not an anti-Europe party like the xenophobic
National Front, this too gave the debate genuine intellectual depth. Of course
some party barons used the campaign spotlight to advance their chances of
becoming the Socialists' next presidential candidate, but this was a minor
distortion.

Some on the yes side deplored the referendum and raised fears that a no vote
would bring chaos and betray France's friends in the leaderships of other
European socialist parties, which all support the constitution. But other party
heavyweights named higher priorities.

The leadership, they argued, must not imply that only a yes vote is respectable.
It was already in danger of losing touch with ordinary members. Only by
reconnecting with the grass roots would the party avoid a further decline in
membership and a drift by working-class voters to the extreme left or right, as
happened to such shocking effect in the 2002 election.

So the debate was joined, with fascinating clashes over whether Europe should be
"social" or "neo-liberal Anglo-Saxon"; whether tax harmonisation could prevent
companies moving to lower-wage eastern European economies; and whether European
defence should bow to Nato or not.

If the Labour party wants to mobilise its own apathetic voters, it ought to
organise a similar internal debate. On this, as on so many other issues, today's
France is the model to follow.

j.steele@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               60 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 2004, Friday

REVIEWS: CLASSICAL -PARLIAMENT CHOIR / SOUTHBANK SINFONIA WESTMINSTER CATHEDRAL
LONDON OOOOO

BYLINE: RODERIC DUNNETT

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 415 words


A senior frontbench Liberal spokesman (tenor); a Rural Affairs minister at odds
with the foxhunting lobby (tenor); a Tory ex-minister with a rural constituency
and diametrically opposite view (baritone); plus a similarly deep-throated basso
colleague. No Greens or UKIP - yet.

Welcome to the Parliament Choir. Once again, the Lords don't have it: only 10 of
them joined the warblers, including three baronesses (notably, the choir's
rich-toned Liberal, Baroness Walmsley), while 14 members of the Commons fill up
the ranks (including The Five Tenors). Secretaries, cooks and cleaners boost
numbers to nearly 100. All laudably democratic.

Simon Over, one of London's most enterprising conductors - and a leading lieder
accompanist to boot - founded the Parliament Choir, together with his fledgling
Southbank Sinfonia, when he shed being organist at St Margaret's, Westminster: a
role once held - auspiciously - by Richard Hickox. The BT-backed choir launched
with a millennial bash - a Handel's Messiah in December 2000, for which MPs
invited constituents to join their mellifluous ranks. A Nelson Mass and Elijah
are in prospect. And for Verdi's Requiem, these Palace of Westminster Pavarottis
swelled themselves to huge numbers by recruiting back-up from choirs as diverse
as Bath, Croydon, Sussex, Lewisham, and the St Michael's Singers from Over's
home town of Coventry. Even the Treasury Singers were there - Gordon, seemingly,
was otherwise occupied.

This was fabulous singing by any standards, from the first perfectly defined,
heads-up "et lux perpetua". Was there a department of chorus and youthful
orchestra that didn't deliver? No, it was all there - those subtle brushings of
comic bassoon and clarinet where the Verdi of Otello and Falstaff offsets
tragedy with unalloyed genius. All except the awful fugal "Libera me", which
sets the words like jingoistic rubbish.

By then, the soprano Judith Howarth had made amends for her amateurish, swooping
portamenti elsewhere, delivering her fabulous apotheosis: one of the best
moments. Deservedly upstaging her was the beautiful singing of the mezzo Wendy
Dawn Thompson (what a find); the splendid Jeremy White (shades of John
Tomlinson, but controlled); and the Italianate tenor Rafael Vazquez - a notable
discovery.

Only a rocky Offertorium launch (cellos) rocked the boat: all else was tip-top.
You could feel the audience respond, sense the intakes of breath: a truly
magnificent, spiritual experience.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               61 of 61 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 1, 2004, Wednesday

Ha! Now it's my turn to ask the questions

BYLINE: Alastair Campbell

SECTION: Features; Times2; 4

LENGTH: 1759 words


For years I underwent the stress of being grilled by journalists on every detail
of government business. Now I'm getting my own back, says Alastair Campbell

IF REVENGE is a dish best served cold, there is ample scope for a taste of
chilliness when I chair a BBC v ITV v Sky "battle of the news channels" charity
quiz tonight. It is not that I would consider any of the contestants hateful,
just that they did have a habit of adding stress to an already highly stressed
life when I worked for the Prime Minister.

To be fair to them, they do at least have the balls to take part. All three have
entered strong teams and in a media world of big egos, a few could be bruised by
the time my score-keeper, Edwina Currie, and I have finished. Imagine Sky being
able to market itself as the brainiest channel in the country. Imagine to what
new levels of puffed-up pomposity the BBC will fly if it comes out top. Or how
ITN might report it if it turns out to be telly's clever clogs. "And finally...

congratulations to ourselves."

In particular I should applaud the courage of political editors Adam Boulton,
Andrew Marr and Nick Robinson. Not only are they team captains. They are also
taking part in a solo round on politics. No conferring. And I am setting the
questions. I know the vanity and cruelty of the Westminster press pack. To the
winner, there will be no laurels from their colleagues. To the loser, no mercy.

I guess this is where a soupcon of revenge may creep in, despite my best efforts
to be nice as it's all in a good cause. During nine years as Tony Blair's
frontline shield from the media, I faced thousands of questions from these guys.
I was expected to know every line of government policy, every recess of every
minister's mind, every detail of every discussion going on within and between
governments, every reason for every event that might be deemed government
business.

I had to be right, all of the time. When I wasn't I never heard the end of it.

When I lost my rag, nor did they.

Sometimes, if I felt they got things wrong, out of perspective or they were
being unfair, I would say so and relations would go into the freezer for a
while.

Sometimes they would think I was the one losing the plot and they would say so,
usually on air or, as is the mode, in a newspaper column. I guess we needed each
other. I had a job to do -to co-ordinate government communications and speak for
the Prime Minister. They had a job to do, which was to try to report what they
thought what was going on, based in part on what I was telling them.

So who was the hardest to deal with? They all have their good and bad points.

Robinson was the one who could get under my skin, usually by asking questions I
thought I'd already dealt with. Boulton was the one who could best couch a tough
question in warm words. Marr, I felt, was the one who most used my briefings to
fill in gaps on scripts he had already mapped out in his head.

Broadcast journalism has changed so much in recent years, with 24-hour news the
biggest change, that it tends still to be the print journalists who probe
forensically while the TV reporters are looking more for tone and texture.

On big news days, they are on air, on and off, from day to night. On big
stories, they are out delivering instant comment, sometimes before even having
had time to read a relevant document, then skim-reading before the next
broadcast, sharing with their viewers the process of journalism as well as its
outcome.

On foreign visits they are driven as much by technology as by journalism but
there were times when even I, something of a perfectionist with workaholic
tendencies, was impressed by just how much they could get through in a day.

For several years there were many days on which I saw more of these guys that I
did my family or them theirs. I had to put up with their questions. They had to
put up with my rarely reported and to them, no doubt, tedious analyses of what
was wrong with modern broadcasting -short-termist, news and comment-fused, too
driven by the written press, too prone to the cheap thrill rather than thorough
analysis.

They had to listen to my moans that it was all very different in John Cole's
day, when reporters had more time to prepare and weren't just talking heads for
24 hour news.

I was interviewed by the three of them on the day I resigned and although we had
spent so much time in each other's company, it felt like just another story,
which of course it was. We had no time to reflect or reminisce off-camera
because the story was rolling and they had to get out there and talk.

Any encounter since has been professional, like an interview, or accidental. I
would not count them as close friends. Nor do I count them as enemies and after
nine years of a sometimes troubled relationship, that's not a bad end place to
be.

Only one of them ever gave me a gift -that was Boulton who, after a marathon
sleep-starved European summit, sent me a message of thanks for all the
briefings, beneath a picture of him fast asleep on the floor of the soulless
media centre, looking rather like a beached whale. It hangs with some of my
favourite cartoons at home. He and I had our run-ins, though. He felt I was too
party political and did not fully appreciate the positive role of the media in
democratic debate.

Believe it or not, he used to criticise me for being too nice to the BBC. I once
had to tell him to stop being such a sanctimonious prig when he blew himself
into outrage over John Prescott's election punch. You'd have thought JP had
punched the Queen.

I had my moments with Robinson, and rather unfairly used to mention in briefings
his past chairmanship of the Young Tories. It got on his nerves, just as he got
on mine when he repeatedly suggested in an interview that I had not properly
expressed regret over the death of David Kelly. Again, to be fair, he later
acknowledged he'd gone over the top.

The Today-Hutton episode inevitably strained relations a little with Andrew Marr
but I never felt he took my complaints about the BBC personally, as many BBC
people did, and when I bumped into him recently we were able to enjoy a
perfectly civilised conversation about the shared responsibilities of politics
and media to improve debate.

As to who I think will win -I would reckon Marr has read more books, on more
subjects. I would guess Boulton has the strongest memory. I reckon Robinson will
be the one swotting up the most. And swot they should.

What I have tried to do is to set questions to which an ordinary member of the
public might not know the answer, but to which that same member of the public
would think a political editor should. Such as key dates in history, who is MP
for where, what job did so and so do, who is European Commissioner for what.
That kind of thing, if not those things exactly. But to ensure that nobody gets
humiliated I have included one or two questions on trivia that I know they will
get. I do not want a nul points situation, honestly.

Planning the quiz has not all been plain sailing. We have dropped the round in
which teams choose their opponents' specialist subject, because the BBC didn't
like the choice of the Hutton inquiry. They may be surprised to know that I
didn't like it either, and was glad to drop it. In the balance between fun and
serious at a charity quiz, fun ought to win and the Hutton inquiry, whatever the
outcome, was certainly not fun.

At the end of it, we'll have raised several thousand pounds for Leukaemia
Research and the survivors of the Beslan school terrorist attack. Then we'll
talk some small talk and go our separate ways; people who once appeared unable
to live without each other and now find that, all too easily, we can.

Oh, and finally... it is not being televised. Openness, accessibility and
freedom of information -they're all very well in theory but hey, what if they
ballsed it up?

* DO YOU KNOW POLITICS? TAKE THE T2 TEST

1. Which play currently in the West End did Tony Blair star in while he was at
school?

2. Which football club does Michael Howard support (clue: that is one reason he
was angry with Boris Johnson a few weeks ago)?

3. Name the two Old Etonians in the Parliamentary Labour Party?

4. Who was the first leader of the Liberal Democratic Party?

5. What is Sir Andrew Turnbull's job?

6. Who now works in 12 Downing Street?

7. Who is Leader of the House of Lords?

8. Who is Roger Knapman (pictured below)?

9. Two leading women thriller writers sit in the House of Lords -one a
Conservative peer and the other a Labour peer? Who are they?

10. Which minister has the use of Chevening?

11. What does the Vice-Chamberlain of the Household do every day that Parliament
is sitting?

12. Which are the three seaside towns where the annual autumn conferences of the
main parties are held?

13. Name the two political families who have supplied three generations of
Cabinet ministers over the past 80 years?

14. How does Margaret Beckett (pictured) like to take her holidays?

15. How many former prime mInisters are there in the House of Commons?

16. Who is C?

17. Who became Conservative Arts spokesman in November?

18. Who is Father of the House of Commons?

19. Name one of the jobs held by Peter Mandelson's grandfather?

20. Michael Martin (pictured) represents a constituency in which city?

QUESTIONS BY PETER RIDDELL. Answers on page 8

* POLITICS QUIZ ANSWERS

Answers to quiz on page 4:

1. Journey's End

2. Liverpool

3. Tam Dalyell and Mark Fisher

4. Paddy Ashdown

5. Cabinet Secretary

6. The Prime MInister's media and communications team

7. Valerie Amos

8. Leader of the UK Independence Party

9. P.D. James (Cons) and Ruth Rendell (Labour)

10. The Foreign Secretary

11. Writes a letter to the Queen about what has been going on in the Commons

12. Blackpool, Bournemouth and Brighton

13. The Benns and the Hoggs

14. Caravanning

15. None

16. John Scarlett, the Director-General of the Secret Intelligence Service

17. Hugo Swire

18. Tam Dalyell

19. Deputy Prime Minister, Lord President of the Council, Leader of the House of
Commons, Foreign Secretary

20. Glasgow

THE TEAMS

BBC: Andrew Marr, Fiona Bruce, Jon Sopel, Ben Brown, Philippa Thomas.

ITV: Nick Robinson, Katie Derham, Alastair Stewart, Mark Austin, Lawrence
McGinty.

Sky: Adam Boulton, Kay Burley, Jeremy Thompson, Julie Etchingham, Martin
Stanford.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
