
                               1 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 30, 2004

Blair faces poll backlash

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 367 words


TONY Blair is braced for fresh political embarrassment tonight in the Hartlepool
by- election, where a once-impregnable Labour majority is on the verge of
complete collapse.

The race to replace disgraced former Cabinet minister Peter Mandelson, who has
been appointed EU Commissioner, was heading for a dramatic finish yesterday.

Officials in the three main parties expect that his 14,571 majority in the 2001
General Election is on course to be all but wiped out.

Labour is likely to hold the seat despite a late surge by the Liberal Democrats.

But some believe the Government's majority could drop to less than 1,000, as
voters vent their anger at the Prime Minister's record. They also say there is a
strong chance that the Tories will be pushed into fourth place behind the UK
Independence Party, a dire result for Michael Howard ahead of next week's
Conservative conference in Bournemouth.

Charles Kennedy has visited the seat six times in support of the Lib Dem
candidate, mother- of-four Jody Dunn.

But chances of an 11th-hour upset were being played down by party strategists
yesterday.

However, another victory for the Lib Dems on the closing day of Labour's
Brighton conference would be a devastating blow for Mr Blair.

Labour's high command fears that a combination of voter apathy, low turnout, and
mounting disillusionment with the Prime Minister is eroding the party's support
in its traditional heartlands. In July, Labour suffered humiliation in two
by-elections, when a 13,000 majority in Leicester South was lost to the Lib Dems
on a 21 per cent swing, and an 11,000 majority in Birmingham Hodge Hill was
slashed to just 460.

Labour activists in Hartlepool saw off an attempt by Mr Mandelson to parachute
his former special adviser Patrick Diamond, 29, into the seat.

They opted instead for Iain Wright, who was born in the town, as it became clear
that local credentials would play a key part in the campaign.

The Tory campaign has been dismissed as 'shambolic' by members of the Shadow
Cabinet, who complained that the party lost ground by waiting until after the
summer holidays to start canvassing.

Labour at Brighton: Pages 18-19

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 30, 2004

HUMILIATION STALKS BLAIR IN HARTLEPOOL POLL

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 485 words


TONY Blair was last night bracing himself for a shock photo-finish in today's
Hartlepool parliamentary by-election amid a late surge of support for the
Liberal Democrats.

Shockwaves went through Labour's high command after reports from party
canvassers indicated the PM's party conference speech had not gone down well
with voters in Hartlepool.

Squabbling between Mr Blair and Chancellor Gordon Brown was also being blamed
for prompting a likely mass abstention from disgruntled Labour supporters.

Private Lib Dem polling found their candidate Jody Dunn had nosed ahead in
nearly half the wards in the town and was running Labour's Iain Wright close in
many others.

Tory sources acknowledged their campaign was in "freefall" amid fears they would
come fourth behind the UK Independence Party. "Most of our vote is simply
defecting to the Lib Dems in a bid to inflict a terrible defeat on Tony Blair, "
said one Conservative.

Lib Dem chief elections strategist Chris Rennard said: "There is a rising mood
of excitement in our campaign. I do not think Labour realises how many Tory
supporters are coming across to us.

"If we can get a final squeeze on support for all the other nonLabour candidates
then we can win. In any event we will go very close.

"We are calling back on people who told us they intended to vote Tory and a high
proportion are indicating they are ready to back us now.

"People really want to teach Mr Blair a lesson he will not forget."

If Labour were to lose the Hartlepool seat for the first time in 40 years, Mr
Blair's leadership would be called into question as never before. Scores of
Labour MPs are growing increasingly concerned that they face losing their seats
as a result of tactical voting.

In some seats a Lib Dem surge may let the Conservatives in, but in many others
they stand to romp home as the outright winner.

Many Hartlepool residents are furious at being dumped by former Labour MP Peter
Mandelson who abandoned the constituency to become a European Commissioner,
despite claiming earlier that he had no interest in a job in Brussels.

Only a few days ago, Labour campaign organisers were still confident of a
comfortable victory in Hartlepool.

But a stream of bad news from Iraq, divisions between Mr Blair and Mr Brown and
the Prime Minister's lacklustre conference speech have combined to sap the
Labour campaign of momentum.

One source close to the Labour campaign said: "If we end up losing then for once
it won't be the inflexible Labour Party membership letting down the modernising
leadership, it will be a case of a divided and out of touch leadership letting
down a really big effort among campaigners on the ground.

"It is certainly true that defeat would be a very sharp warning that we can take
nothing for granted at the next general election and have a lot of work to do to
claw back lost support."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 30, 2004

All to play for in Hartlepool

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 428 words


Voters in Hartlepool will go to the polls today to choose a successor to Peter
Mandelson as the town's MP - and, if Labour is comprehensively routed, a
successor to his friend, Tony Blair, as prime minister.

After a summer of cheap insults traded between the Labour and Liberal Democrat
camps in increasingly aggressive campaign leaflets, Hartlepudlians will be glad
to return to normality when the result is announced shortly after midnight.

Mr Blair and his main rivals, Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy, will not shrug
off the consequences of today's by election so easily. In the 14-strong field, a
bad result will hurt any of them as the general election looms.

Mr Blair's position is most exposed. If Labour's Iain Wright fails to fend off
the Lib Dem barrister Jody Dunn's threat to Mr Mandelson's 14,571-vote majority,
the premier may be back in serious trouble after this week's conference respite
in Brighton.

The Lib Dems have flooded the town with activists and posters. And yesterday's
final Lib Dem flyer, distributed to all 40,000 households in the town and
adjoining villages, proclaimed a "photo-finish" and urged waverers to vote to
save the local hospital.

For good measure, it carried a photo of George Bush with Tony Blair, though Iraq
has not been as important as crime, antisocial behaviour and the NHS in this
intensely local contest where a candidate's birthplace is an issue.

So much so that when Hartlepool United drew 2-2 with Hull this week, Labour
flyers were handed out showing Mr Wright in local colours and Ms Dunn in rival
Darlington strip because she used to live 20 miles away.

Labour also recycles her misplaced blog joke that locals are "either drunk,
flanked by an angry dog or undressed". When she repeated the remark on BBC
radio, it was put up on a special Labour phone line, its number circulated by
text message.

In Labour's eve-of-poll flyer (also 40,000 copies) it is contrasted with Mr
Wright's wholesome verdict: "hard-working, loyal and proud, with a great sense
of humour".

Lib Dem officials admit Labour is still ahead by eight wards to seven, with two
"too close to call".

The Tory candidate, Jeremy Middleton, is struggling not to save the second place
the party held in 2001, but to beat Ukip's Malcolm Allison into third place.

Odds offered by William Hill confirm the cautious predictions of local
journalists, with Labour the strong favourite at four to one on; the Lib Dems
11/4 against; and the Tories at 20/1, ahead of Ukip on 40/1.

Leader comment, page 27


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 30, 2004, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 764 words


Sadie gets more than she bargained for with Nestle

After the high of London Fashion Week, there are stormy waters ahead for Sadie
Frost. Her latest money-spinning scheme is to be targeted by campaigners opposed
to the multinational food company Nestle.

Last week, Frost, right, announced that her fashion label, FrostFrench, is
designing a series of "limited edition" wrappers for Nestle Double Cream
chocolate.

Now, I gather that groups opposed to Nestle's sale of powdered baby milk in
developing countries intend to launch a campaign against her.

"I'd imagine the decision to associate themselves with Nestle is down to
ignorance," says a spokesman for one group, Baby Milk Action. "We'd like to make
contact to raise awareness of Nestle's human rights abuses, so they'll
reconsider. I suppose this depends what you want to make a profit from."

It could all cause diplomatic problems. Baby Milk Action has many high- profile
patrons, including Emma Thompson and Zoe Wanamaker.

More pertinently, Frost's chum Kate Moss supports Breakthrough Breast Cancer, a
charity that recently hit the headlines after turning down a pounds 1m donation
from Nestle.

Frost, meanwhile, has previously endorsed breast feeding. Her spokesman refused
to comment yesterday, though last week endorsed the following release: "As a
design duo responsible for indulgent, feminine designs, FrostFrench embody the
spirit of Nestle Double Cream perfectly."

No baby, insists Hurley's boyfriend

VLIZ HURLEY'S boyfriend Arun Nayar has gone on the offensive over allegations
that he's about to become the father of her child.

Approached by journalists in his native India, Nayar - pictured left with Hurley
- says that reports of a pregnancy, carried in various British Sunday
newspapers, are "totally untrue".

A reporter from The Times of India was recently told: "It's not true. It could
be, but it isn't. Have a good morning."

The Indian Express, meanwhile: "I never read the newspapers. What did they say
again? It's always great that newspapers know what is going on in my life before
I do, but unfortunately the answer is no. We aren't having a baby as yet."

It could all be a cunning plan to throw Fleet Street off the scent. But any fib
will be exposed imminently: the British tabloids reckon that Hurley's child is
due in February.

Hugh's gorilla grumble

VHUGH DANCY, a rising star of British cinema, is upset by my recent item on his
friendship with the publicist Ciara Parkes.

In June, I asked Parkes about reports that she'd been "canoodling" with Dancy,
left, at the Serpentine summer party. She strongly denied a romance. "Hugh is
one of my greatest friends," she said. "I've known him for years and I certainly
wasn't canoodling with him. I was far too busy for that."

Now Dancy, who met Pandora at Dunhill's Vanity Fair party on Tuesday, has taken
up the cudgels.

"I've just spent several months in central Africa," he said, cheerily. "Why
don't you go and write that I'm having an affair with a gorilla?"

Happy to oblige.

Speaker's corner

VBETTY BOOTHROYD has reservations about the proposed tightening of security at
Westminster.

Discussing Otis Ferry's invasion - which she believes to be "an inside job" -
the former speaker says: "Although it doesn't really affect me, because I'm now
in the Lords, I believe the Sergeant at Arms does a great job. There are always
risks, but the House is a public place, so such risks can never be taken away."

Apropos of a recent rash of reports that Tony Blair is unhappy with her
successor Michael Martin, Baroness Boothroyd - speaking at the opening of The
Solid Gold Cadillac - adds: "I don't believe them. It must have been a slow day
for the papers."

VA delightfully petty row has jollified proceedings in Hartlepool, where voters
are currently going to the polls.

The other day, Newsnight reporter Michael Crick arrived in the town square, to
record footage of the UK Independence Party inflating a giant balloon. He took a
few shots and then disappeared.

"We started letting the balloon down," says UKIP press officer Clive Page.
"Then, a few minutes later, I discovered Crick hiding around the corner, about
to jump out and video our balloon deflating."

Page rapidly re-inflated the balloon, and dispatched Crick - whom he (perhaps
unfairly) describes as "a very slimy man" - with a flea in his ear.

Says Crick diplomatically: "Their campaign is not the most professional I have
ever seen."

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 30, 2004, Thursday

HARTLEPOOL BY-ELECTION: LIB DEM CANDIDATE PROMISES TO DELIVER AN UPSET IN
MANDELSON'S OLD HUNTING GROUND;
 HARTLEPOOL BY-ELECTION

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY CHIEF REPORTER Jody Dunn, the Liberal Democrat candidate,
meets voters on the last day of campaigning in Hartlepool yesterday North News

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1166 words


IT IS 8pm on the evening before the last full day of campaigning in the
Hartlepool by-election and the orange- encrusted headquarters for the Liberal
Democrat campaign is a blur of activity.

Volunteers are coming and going, telephones are being worked, envelopes stuffed,
lists of voters scrutinised. Their candidate, Jody Dunn, a barrister and mother
of four, returns exhilarated from the battlefront; people round here don't like
their doors knocked after dark, but there's still plenty of work to do.

They've been at it for eight weeks in an attempt to pull off a famous victory in
a Labour stronghold now up for grabs following the departure of Peter Mandelson
for Brussels and energy levels remain high. "We haven't packed up before
midnight for weeks now," Ms Dunn says, "and some people will be here all night.
A lot of people are making up their minds in the last 24 hours. We think we can
do it."

Around the corner, in South Road, the headquarters of the Labour candidate, Iain
Wright, the red metal shutters are pulled down. Mr Wright is watching his
beloved Hartlepool United; everyone else seems to have called it a night. Is the
Labour team simply displaying confidence their majority of 14,571 will hold up?
Or is Mr Wright guilty of complacency? Today, the voters of Hartlepool will
deliver their verdict. But there are signs they could be about to deliver a
serious shock to Labour; getting close to a Labour defeat would be a serious
blow, bigger than their recent victories in Brent East and Leicester, where they
were helped by a sizeable anti- Iraq Muslim vote. Here the Muslim vote is
negligible; victory would be stunning.

While Hartlepool itself, population around 88,000, is geographically isolated,
the by-election has put it at the political centre of the nation. Although being
fought largely on local issues and the very "localness" of the candidates - it
represents a big test for the Government, two days after Mr Blair's Brighton
speech and ahead of next week's Tory conference and an almost certain general
election next spring.

Then there is the Mandelson factor. Almost everyone is caustic about his term of
office as MP: "He was never here" and "He didn't do much for Hartlepool" are the
common refrains. Significantly, Mr Wright is very much the local man and Mr
Mandelson has not been present during the campaign. Neither does anybody
attribute to him the relative prosperity of the town, which declined following
the collapse of traditional industries but now boasts a smart shopping centre, a
restored marina and tidy housing estates.

It is on one such estate that Mr Wright was out canvassing earlier this week.
Mick Hill, the party's regional organiser, maintains the vote is holding up but
there's a suspicious lack of "Vote Wright" posters around.

Mr Wright himself, a personable individual and a father of three, looks like the
young accountant he is. Word has it he was deliberately chosen as the candidate
"most unlike Mandelson"; some local Labour councillors have declined their
support, accusing him of being a lightweight puppet. His only shared
characteristics with Mr Mandelson are a fashionable haircut and an ability to
deliver New Labour platitudes on cue.

"I'm confident, not complacent, people are saying to me on the doorstep, Don't
worry kidda, we'll be there for you."' Difficult to imagine them calling Mr
Mandelson "kidda", but the youthful-looking Mr Wright somehow invites it.

The doorstep issues, he says, are not Iraq or the economy, but crime and the
fear of it, antisocial behaviour and drug- taking. He rejects suggestions of a
negative campaign focusing on Ms Dunn's initial ambiguity over where she lives -
she's now renting in the town - and some critical comments on her Web diary
after a bad night on the stump, which she claims were taken out of context.

Ms Dunn, 35, who is half-Finnish, worked as a disc jockey before studying for
the Bar in the late 1990s. She has focused on Labour's apparent inability to
guarantee the future of the local hospital. "One day to save the hospital" said
the window in her HQ yesterday, slightly disingenuously. She says Labour has
focused on her and not presented their own policies.

Working the shopping centre yesterday, Ms Dunn impressed potential voters. But
they too, despite the candidates' views that Iraq was not an issue, happily link
distrust of Labour at local and national level: Bernard Robertson, 69, and his
wife, Margaret, 64, lifelong Labour voters, will back her tonight. "We like her
- and we don't like Blair any more. I don't think he's going to be leader for
much longer." Another woman - "just call me Joan" - said: "I'm a lifelong
Conservative and she's convinced me. I'm voting for her and so are my daughter
and son-in-law. The war has done it for us." Dwayne Thomas, 23, a cable puller,
accepted his orange sticker happily: "It Blair's speech wasn't much of an
apology was it?"

Jason Alexander, 35, managing director of the local radio station and a former
Labour voter, added: The town needs a change. I hope Jody will get in. She's her
own person, she'll stand up and speak out and not be a poodle for anybody." In
this fierce battle, Jeremy Middleton, the equally presentable Conservative
candidate, a small business consultant from Newcastle, but chosen only in
September, is struggling to be heard; his team recognises the soft Labour vote
is more likely to go to the Liberal Democrats than to him, while Stephen
Allison, the United Kingdom Independence Party candidate, will be expected to
take some of his vote.

Mr Middleton's problem was summed up by Brian Chisholm, 69, a retired production
engineer, whom he encountered yesterday in the seaside suburb of Seaton. Mr
Chisholm, describing himself as a "classic floating voter", told him: "I don't
think you have enough strength to get them out, so I'm making my protest with
the Lib Dems." He said: "We've been lied to by Blair and there's no way did I
believe his apology."

On Wednesday night, Mr Wright saw his team draw 3-3 with Hull, but squeak
through to the next round of the LDV Cup on penalties. Whether Mr Wright escapes
defeat by a narrow margin, we will learn much later tonight.

THE CANDIDATES

Edward Abrams (English Democrats);

Stephen Allison (UKIP);

Philip Berriman (Independent);

John Bloom (Respect);

Ronnie Carroll (Independent);

Jody Dunn (Liberal Democrat);

Christopher Herriot (Socialist Labour Party);

Alan Hope (Monster Raving Loony Party);

Jeremy Middleton (Conservative);

Richard Rodgers (The Common Good);

Iris Ryder (Green Party);

James Starkey (National Front);

Paul Watson (Fathers 4 Justice);

Iain Wright (Labour).

General Election result in 2001:

Peter Mandelson (Labour) 22,506;

Gus Robinson (Conservative) 7,935;

Nigel Boddy

(Liberal Democrat) 5,717;

Arthur Scargill (Socialist Labour) 912;

Ian Cameron (Independent) 557; John Booth (Ind) 424

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 29, 2004, Wednesday

French fishermen must not be let off the hook

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 25

LENGTH: 146 words

SIR - At last we have a fisheries minister who really understands marine
conservation. Ben Bradshaw is to be congratulated on his unilateral ban on
pair-trawling for bass within the British 12-mile limit (report, Sept 28).

However, this will not stop dead dolphins being washed up on British beaches,
because the European Commission shows no intention of taking similar action.
There are vast commercial French interests involved in this industry.

The real challenge to Mr Bradshaw will be what to do with the French boats that
continue to pair-trawl within the British 12-mile limit.

I would like to think that, like Norway, we will impound such boats. However,
experience shows that the ban will be enforced on British fishermen and ignored
by the French.

I hope that I am proved wrong.

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

European Parliament Fisheries Committee

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 28, 2004

G2: Today Hartlepool, tomorrow . . .: For 40 years Hartlepool has been a solid
heartland Labour seat. But now Peter Mandelson has headed to Brussels and a
boyish local accountant and a glamorous barrister are locked in a fierce battle
that could determine the future of Tony Blair. Decca Aitkenhead has spent the
last month watching them: quotations

BYLINE: Fraser Kemp, Fraser Kemp, Tory Central Office , Clive Page, Labour party
worker

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words


The man was a disaster. If that had been a swimming pool he'd have drowned, he
was that far out of his depth

Labour party worker

If you're going to be a Tory here, you might as well be proud of it, 'cause you
ain't going to win anything

Fraser Kemp, Labour strategist

As time went on, however, we began to realise that everyone we met was either
drunk, flanked by

an angry dog or undressed

Fraser Kemp

Yes, one of us will be appointed in the next 48 hours to run the show. Then
they'll go and set up camp up there, I suppose, and put up the tents, and send
up some outriders and redcoats and what not. And then I suppose we'll wait to be
slaughtered

Tory Central Office

Jesus, I've seen married couples have better arguments. We're going to send
someone to Westminster on the basis of this?

Clive Page, Ukip


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 27, 2004

Comment & Analysis: A European superstate is inevitable: Endpiece: Bush's
America does not have a divine right to global supremacy

BYLINE: Roy Hattersley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 811 words


The Lost Boys of the Tory party are planning another excursion into Never Never
Land. John Redwood, the Eurosceptic who never grew up, has once more raised the
prospect of renegotiating Britain's membership of the European Union. His stated
objective is a relationship which is "more closely modelled to what we
originally joined".

Forget the weird syntax. Just estimate the possibility of France and Germany,
not to mention the other member nations, agreeing to turn back the clock by 30
years or accepting that Britain alone can pick and choose among the aspects of
the union from which it benefits and the obligations which it prefers to avoid.

The one thing to be said in Redwood's favour is that he remains true to the
greatest of all Conservative traditions - swimming against the tide of history.
Over the next 20 years (about the time it will take for the Tories to become
realistic contenders again) Europe will become more integrated not less. All the
pressures, internal and external, make that inevitable. If you doubt it, read
Stephen Haseler's latest book. It sets out a series of self-evident truths that
other Europhiles have been afraid to express. Its title is Super-State and
superstate is what, sooner or later, Europe will become.

Haseler tells part of the story. The world's largest economy with a stable
common currency and a successful single market is, he rightly argues, bound to
pursue policies that conflict with the interests of the US.

That makes the two "superpowers" competitors but not enemies. It also means that
"core Europe" - the Franco-German alliance which Britain should join and make
into a troika - is certain to lead the way towards distinctive defence and
foreign policies. Only people who share the Bush belief that America has a
divine right to global supremacy can complain about that.

The war in Iraq, supported in Europe only by America's client nations, is the
most dramatic example of the way in which transatlantic interests diverge.
Haseler points to a more fundamental cause of the widening gap.

"Nato - the embodiment and instrument of American power in Europe - was a huge
success." The fall of the Berlin wall and the dissolution of the Warsaw pact
"changed everything". Europe no longer needs America and, on the basis of Henry
Kissinger's view that US troops were in Berlin to defend Baltimore, America no
longer needs Europe. President Bush has not been slow to disengage. Neither he,
nor his successors, could complain if Europe chooses to establish its own
identity.

When Haseler discussed his ideas with a variety of Euro-experts and enthusiasts,
they all examined his proposition in remarkably romantic terms. Europe would be
built - or demolished - according to the way in which men and women reacted to
great events. The liberal theory of history has rarely had a finer flowering.
The inexorable pressures of economics were hardly mentioned. Even though they
are the forces which have already made Europe a pseudo-superstate.

Thirty years ago, we joined a common market that was little more than a free
trade area. Foolishly, Ted Heath promised no reduction in national sovereignty -
instead of emphasising the strength that comes when sovereignty is pooled. But
we all knew that the Zollverein was only the beginning. The free trade area
begat a community and the community begat a union. At each step along the way,
political and economic integration went hand in hand. It would not have been
possible to run the single market, which Margaret Thatcher's government
supported with such enthusi asm, without a political and legal framework to
enforce its acceptance and application.

The social chapter of the Maastricht treaty deserved support on its own merits.
But half of Europe wants it applied to the whole union to make sure that
Gradgrind welfare policies do not allow skinflint companies to undercut
competitors in more progressive nations. Economic and political union cannot be
separated. The free movement of capital and labour have to be politically
defined and legally regulated. That is a necessity, not a matter of choice. An
army and a unified foreign policy may be optional extras. A common competition
policy - by definition a political proposition - goes, automatically, with a
common external tariff.

The superstate - which does not require Brussels to dictate the shape of bananas
in British shops - is historically inevitable. That is the only Europe on offer.

Is it possible that John Redwood, sometime fellow of All Souls, does not
recognise that obvious fact? Or is he posturing to protect the Tories against
the United Kingdom Independence party? The third, and most plausible
possibility, is that he knows how Europe will develop and believes, but dare not
say, that Britain should withdraw completely.

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 27, 2004

Home: Assault on 'cuddly' Lib Dem image ahead of Hartlepool byelection: Campaign
Big guns turn their fire on Kennedy

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 495 words


Labour big guns yesterday insisted that Britain's historic two-party system
makes the coming general election a contest between Labour and the
Conservatives.

But they turned a lot of their fire against the Liberal Democrats ahead of
Thursday's Hartlepool byelection.

Iain Wright, Labour's candidate in Peter Mandelson's old seat, is defending a
14,571 majority against the Lib Dems' Jody Dunn.

But he is fighting it like a marginal.

Signals from both sides - the Lib Dems say it will be close - suggest Labour is
increasingly confident of victory.

But the party took no chances on the opening day of its Brighton conference.

Labour's chairman, Ian McCartney, its general secretary, Matt Carter, and the
newly appointed campaigns coordinator, Alan Milburn, went out of their way to
try to disabuse voters of what Mr Carter called the media myth that the Lib Dems
are a "harmless group of cuddly do-gooders".

Mr McCartney claimed that Lib Dem votes only serve to shore up Tory governments
- true in the 80s, but not the case since 1997 - and that "if you go to bed with
Charles Kennedy you wake up with Michael Howard".

Mr Milburn told reporters that whenever the Lib Dem level of public support
rises - as at Hartlepool and the wider country - "it also raises the bar and
makes the test of credibility so much higher. But in the end what British
politics is about is Tory versus Labour'.'

Mr McCartney said most Scots - like himself - were straight-talking, but "voters
should remember, Charles Kennedy is a Liberal Democrat first and a Scotsman
second".

He challenged the Lib Dems to explain why they want to scrap Labour's New Deal
for jobs, pensioner credits and higher minimum wage.

In a passage that may cause real anger, Mr McCartney, whose son died of a drug
overdose, added: "Why is it that every time your Lib Dem MPs have had the chance
to vote to protect decent people from crime and antisocial behaviour, they have
sided with the drug dealers, vandals and yobs?"

Labour's justification for such talk is that Lib Dem policy-makers talk tough,
but shy away from endorsing Labour remedies such as antisocial behaviour orders.

Lib Dems say Labour's methods are too crude and do not work.

Crime is an issue in Hartlepool, along with the fate of the local hospital.

Jeremy Middleton, the Tory candidate, second last time, is fighting Respect,
Ukip and the Greens for a decent share of the vote.

* Tony Blair yesterday warned pro-hunters against breaking the law and praised
Alun Michael's efforts to find the kind of compromise the prime minister himself
had backed.

"Unfortunately it was voted against by the Commons and then blocked by the
Lords," he said.

On BBC1's Breakfast with Frost, Mr Blair said he would not use the Parliament
Act to enforce the will of the Commons unless no further compromise could be
found.

It was an issue that had "to be decided" in the present parliament, he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 27, 2004, Monday

Police ready to tackle fraudsters in postal vote for assembly

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 381 words


THREE police forces in the North East have drawn up a strategy to combat
electoral fraud during the all-postal ballot referendum for a regional assembly
in November.

The Cleveland, Northumbria and Durham forces have been advised by Greater
Manchester police, which investigated fraud allegations in the North West, as
highlighted by The Times during the local and European elections in June.

The Electoral Commission, the Royal Mail and Sunderland City Council have been
working with the police.

A new security protocol is to be issued to referendum agents and counting
officers at the 25 councils taking part in the November 4 ballot, which will
involve 1.8 million voters.

Today the Electoral Commission is launching an advertising campaign to provide
information about the referendum and the assembly.

The campaigns, which have been given £100,000 each by the Commission, are
largely split on party lines with the Yes campaign having support from Labour
and the Liberal Democrats and the No campaign from the Tories and the UK
Independence Party.

A recent ICM poll suggested that there was more support for the assembly than
not, though a significant proportion of voters were undecided.

The 25-strong directly elected assembly would have a budget of about £500
million and would have powers or some influence over economic development,
housing, planning, transport, tourism, public health, fire and rescue and the
environment.

The new security measures follow the postal ballot fiasco in June when a Times
investigation uncovered widespread allegations of intimidation and electoral
fraud.

The Electoral Commission issued a report in August recommending a moratorium on
all postal ballots. Two of the three planned regional referendums this autumn
have been postponed, but the Electoral Commission agreed that the one in the
North East could go ahead with an all-postal ballot as there had been fewer
problems in the region during the June elections.

The local authorities have tried to ensure that they avoid the logistical
hiccups -printing and postal delays -which dogged the June elections. All ballot
papers in Sunderland have already gone to the printers and the other authorities
will have their literature ready within days.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 27, 2004, Monday

Tony, we have this cunning plan for your victory. We'll forget all about you

BYLINE: Tim Hames

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 974 words


IMAGINE THAT you are Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former political pollster and
strategist. This is not, admittedly, an easy exercise. Nor is it a comfortable
one. Mr Morris may well, privately, be a compassionate and sentimental soul who
spends his spare time shopping for little old ladies. That is not, however, his
public reputation. He is viewed as a brutal, cynical and ruthless operator.

The fact that he has worked for diverse candidates and parties around the globe
- Democrats, Republicans, even the UK Independence Party -has reinforced that
impression. He is considered, perhaps harshly, to be a hired hitman; a cross,
pehaps, between Peter Snow of Newsnight and the Prince of Darkness.

Unfashionable as it is to concede this, there are real advantages to the Morris
outlook on politics. It forces you to put to one side your own preferences for
people and policy and concentrate dispassionately on the evidence. This is an
especially worthwhile exercise for a party conference held before a likely
general election.

What might Mr Morris make of the Labour Party and its plight at the moment? If
we crossed his palm with (considerable) silver and allowed him a few minutes to
examine recently published Populus polls in The Times, never mind the
sensational one in the News of the World yesterday which placed Labour third, he
would swiftly assess its position. He would note that the party appears to be,
on average, about 6 to 8 percentage points down on where it stood at the last
general election. He would observe that these missing Labour voters had not
deserted to the Tories.

They had either moved to the Liberal Democrats (in the belief that Charles
Kennedy and crew were to the left of Labour), or to smaller parties of the Left,
or to the WNV (Will Not Vote) Party.

He would then, having submitted his first invoice, reach additional conclusions.

He would look with alarm at the attitudes of those still remaining loyal to
Labour. He would be bemused by a Populus poll in The Times last Monday which
showed that, while Labour voters placed themselves modestly to the left of the
political centre, they thought their party was significantly right of centre. So
much so that, incredibly, Labour's supporters contend that their party is more
conservative than the Tories.

Mr Morris would, by now, probably assert that this was the strangest country he
had ever been asked to work in. Having recovered his composure, he would notice
two final pieces of information. Those who had abandoned Labour to move to the
left appeared to be motivated by an intense personal dislike of the party
leader.

Yet there appeared to be no plausible means of compensating for these people by
making fresh converts among those who did not back Labour in either 2001 or
1997.

The sole strategy for another victory must involve enticing lost sheep back to
the flock.

Now suppose that Mr Morris was told that there were two competing strategies for
a 2005 election campaign and that he should recommend one or the other.

Plan A involves placing more emphasis on the Labour team and less on the person
of the Prime Minister. It means doing everything possible to promote internal
unity.

It suggests an emphasis on a political theme with proven wide appeal, namely the
economy. It calls for pressing home an established advantage on other very big
issues, in particular the public services. It also includes focusing vigorously
on the unappealing characteristics of the Conservative Party. Few punches would
be pulled either in dealing with Michael Howard or the record of the Major
Government.

Plan B is rather different. The disaffected are to be, supposedly, attracted
back by another method. The campaign will make the Prime Minister himself the
centre of attention. It will be hinted that he might remain in office
indefinitely. This blueprint would dismiss as far too cautious, negative and
unambitious a campaign run on the economy, the public services, or the
unattractive aspects of the Opposition. A renewed positive mandate should
instead be obtained by talking up radical new policies linked with the leader.

Exactly how many nanoseconds it would take for Mr Morris, or anyone else working
from basic political logic, to deduce that Plan A made rather more sense than
Plan B is disputable. It might be as many as three if Mr Morris is remunerated
by the hour. If he were busy, he might cut straight to the point and get it over
in one.

It is hard to conceive, utterly unimaginable in truth, that he would believe the
solution to the problem of hostile perceptions of Tony Blair could be more
in-your-face Blairism. His private counsel would be that if the Prime Minister's
political philosophy is to prosper then, at this stage, it has to be pursued
with a degree of stealth.

Next imagine that you are Alan Milburn. This is, I concede, not that much
simpler than thinking of yourself as Mr Morris, but it probably involves fewer
insults. Mr Milburn has been recruited at short notice, and not without a little
reluctance on his own part, to devise a manifesto and an election campaign for
Labour at an inauspicious moment. His elevation has been presented as a
deliberate act of factional politics. And he has been told that his task is to
follow not Plan A, but Plan B instead.

What on earth would you do in these circumstances? The most sensible course
would be to make contact with Mr Morris. He has made a fortune out of such
situations.

On careful (and expensive) reflection, Mr Morris would offer the following
invaluable advice to Mr Milburn. Follow Plan A anyway and let the Prime Minister
think that it is Plan B that you are implementing. This might seem a pretty
brutal, cynical and ruthless way to operate. Then again, it has the merit that
it should work.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 26, 2004, Sunday

AGENDA: DIARY DATES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 251 words


Today: Anti-poverty and trade justice campaigners stage demonstration on first
day of Labour Party Conference in Brighton. Great North Run takes place in
Newcastle.

Tomorrow: European Parliament hears from commissioner candidates before voting
on whether to approve them from 25-28 October. Aslef conference begins in
Scarborough.

Tuesday: Final day of the Paralympics in Greece. Winners of the Whitbread Young
Achievers 2004 awards are announced. Citizens Advice annual conference at York
University runs until Thursday. Pro-hunting protests outside the Labour
conference in Brighton. Letters belonging to Admiral Lord Nelson are auctioned
at Bonhams, New Bond Street, London.

Wednesday: International Monetary Fund releases twice-yearly World Economic
Outlook report. UN Security Council in New York debates Congo. Jewish festival
of Sukkot begins at sundown and runs until 7 October. UK Business Excellence
Awards 2004 at London's Hilton.

Thursday: Hartlepool by-election for Peter Mandelson's former seat. The ninth
Mobo (Music of Black Origin) Awards take place at London's Royal Albert Hall.

Friday: 55th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. Britain takes over
from Spain as President of the UN Security Council. Minimum wage rises to pounds
4.95 an hour. Disability Discrimination Act comes into force.

Saturday: Scottish Liberal Democrats hold autumn conference at Glasgow
Caledonian University. UK Independence Party conference at the Colston Hall in
Bristol.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              13 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               September 26, 2004

An easy win? Don't count on it, Tony

BYLINE: WILLIAM REES-MOGG

SECTION: FB; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 1181 words


As in war, strategy in politics is decided by the generals but the advice is
provided by the staff.

The election strategy of the three major British parties is becoming more
apparent as they prepare for their conferences, and in the conferences
themselves.

One can already identify some of the elements of the staff advice. As usual in
political life, things are not altogether what they seem.

The conventional view is that another Labour victory is more or less inevitable
in a General Election which will probably be held in May of next year. The
Labour Party will have another large overall majority, if not quite as big as in
1997 or 2001.

The Liberal Democrats will do well, gaining both in share of the votes and in
seats. The Conservatives may pick up a few seats from Labour but may lose a few
to the Liberal Democrats.

From the Conservative point of view, the result will be a disappointment, likely
to be followed by yet another change of leader.

I sometimes think that, apart from the backroom number crunchers, there can be
only three people in the country who do not more or less expect this outcome
Tony Blair, Michael Howard and myself.

Of course, I would accept that such a result is possible; elections are never
predictable; a third Labour landslide, though unlikely, is by no means
impossible. However, there are other factors that need to be taken into account.
I feel certain that both Tony Blair and Michael Howard are well aware of them.

The first is that the opinion polls, which have their impact on public
expectation, are probably wrong; nowadays, they usually are. They were wrong in
1992, wrong again in 1997 and wrong a third time in 2001.

On each occasion, they overstated the Labour majority of the vote by about ten
per cent. They partially corrected themselves in the last days of these
campaigns but they overrated Labour prospects when the campaigns started.

Nine polls were taken in the first eight days of May 2001; they gave Labour an
average lead of 19 per cent. On polling day, June 7, Labour's actual lead was
nine per cent.

The polls currently suggest the Conservatives are roughly level with Labour.

If their bias towards Labour still exists, these polls will still be
exaggerating the Government's strength. From the way the Prime Minister conducts
himself, I would guess that he does not believe these polls; after all, he knows
the polls before the last two elections promised him much bigger landslides than
he actually achieved.

The second factor that worries Labour is turnout. In 2001 Labour had a
triumphant election victory, a second great landslide. But their vote dropped by
2.75 million; the Conservative vote at the same election dropped by only about
1.25 million.

Last week there was a Press leak of a private Labour forecast that they might
lose another three million votes at the next election, which would bring their
vote down to eight million or so. Labour voters seem to be ebbing away; there is
a hole in the bucket. Low turnout must therefore be Labour's greatest concern.
Their voters have always been less reliable than the Tories, if only because
older and more prosperous voters are keener to vote than the younger and the
poorer groups which have usually supported Labour.

But now there are further reasons for abstaining. By supporting President Bush
in Iraq, Tony Blair has offended his core voters, including idealists and
pacifists of the Left.

Tony Blair has wooed and won the middle class, but they had not expected Iraq to
happen. If a Conservative Government had supported the Iraq invasion, the Labour
Party would have been united and furious in opposition to the war.

Mr Blair has therefore paid a high price in terms of his own party.

He had already alienated many northern working-class voters by New Labour's more
Thatcherite image. Old Labour has never really accepted New Labour. This means
that differences in turnout could decide the next election. Labour is on the
defensive. In 1997 Labour managed to convert large numbers of Conservative
voters, as well as some Liberal voters, who voted tactically to turn the Tories
out.

At the next election, there will not be many further conversions to Labour.

Tony Blair can get a high turnout only if he can mobilise his own people; he is
probably less good at that than he was at wooing the floating middle class.

Tony Blair will have a difficult task at his conference; he has to regain the
lost confidence of his own party. It is like the exchange in Shakespeare's Henry
IV Part I: 'I can call spirits from the vasty deep,' claims Glendower.

'Why, so can I, or so can any man; but will they come when you do call for
them?' replies Hotspur.

The Lib Dems have had their conference. They want to replace the Conservative
Party as the main opposition. There are, indeed, many Rightwing voters, not all
of whom support the Conservatives. Some hold views which are to the Right of the
relatively liberal leadership of the Conservative Party.

But the idea that the Lib Dems, who combine policies of European integration
with higher taxation, can replace the Tories in the representation of this
conservative sector is not tenable; frankly, it is absurd.

In the June European elections, on the issue of European integration, the Lib
Dems came fourth behind the United Kingdom Independence Party. The Lib Dems
remain the second party of the Centre-Left, only a niche position in the
democratic marketplace.

It is UKIP which is the ghost at the election banquet. For the Conservatives,
the figures of the European elections look very tempting. In June, the
Conservatives came first and UKIP third. There are nine English regions. The
combined Conservative and UKIP vote was more than 50 per cent in four of them:
East Midlands, Eastern, South-East and South-West.

In another four it was larger than the Labour vote.

Only in the North-East did Labour get more votes than the Conservatives and UKIP
, and then only by a very narrow margin. In Great Britain as a whole, including
Scotland and Wales, the Conservatives plus UKIP beat Labour by 43 to 22.5 per
cent, nearly by two to one.

The Conservative position is therefore stronger than it looks. The Lib Dems make
no sense as the alternative Conservative Party. The Labour Party is trying to
build its own supporters' enthusiasm, despite Iraq.

The new Conservative strategy is to maximise the Right of Centre vote, including
the votes which UKIP succeeded in mobilising last June.

Michael Howard has brought John Redwood and Nicholas Soames, who attract the
Rightwing, into his reshuffled Shadow Cabinet. New Conservative policies have
been concentrated on lower taxation, control of crime and immigration, and
proposals for higher pensions.

We can dismiss the idea that Centre-Right Conservative voters will be seduced by
Leftwing Lib Dem policies.

The question is whether Labour or the Conservatives will be more successful in
getting out their own core vote when the General Election comes.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE X FACTOR... TONY AND CHERIE BLAIR CASTING THEIR VOTE IN THE 2002
LOCAL ELECTIONS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              14 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               September 26, 2004

A rent-a-crowd, spies and the Labour wannabe

BYLINE: BLACK DOG

SECTION: FB; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 475 words


AS Labour activists gather in Brighton today for the party's annual shindig,
would-be Labour MP for Reading East Tony Page, who has two convictions for gross
indecency in public loos, has written to local workers asking for help on the
election trail.

He says: 'I need a rent-a-crowd who want to be pictured in the paper with Tony
Blair, spies for a covert operation to see what our opponents are up to and a
team to write carefully crafted letters to help the party.' And MPs wonder why
people don't vote ...

BRUSSELS new boy Peter Mandelson, who is to miss his first Labour gathering in
years, faces a rough ride at his confirmation hearing with EU chiefs.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage is to ask him if he will claim a Pounds 340a-month
'spouse's allowance' for his Brazilian partner Reinaldo da Silva.

THE memoirs of obscure ex-Labour MP Giles Radice could be called The Ego Has
Landed. Radice breaks the dramatic news of his retirement to Gordon Brown thus:
'Gordon would clearly prefer me to stay. I argued for his policies before he
did. Yet I have the credibility not to appear a Brown toady. I say, immodestly,
I shall be difficult to replace. He is fascinated ...'

Kennedy's wife on to a Lottery loser

LIB Dem MPs are grumbling about Charles Kennedy's wife Sarah, who was at the
party's Bournemouth conference last week in her capacity as lobbyist for Lottery
operator Camelot.

'She tried to get us to buy Lottery tickets,' said one. 'I felt like saying,
"I've got more chance of winning the jackpot than Charlie has of becoming Prime
Minister".'

WHEN Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble argued at
the Leeds Castle talks on the Province's future, Trimble sighed to Tony Blair:
'It's a communication breakdown, just like you and the Chancellor.'

The PM replied: 'You never said a truer word.'

TORY MP John Butterfill is a shy chap. He won an apology after The Daily
Telegraph wrongly claimed he was in a group of lazy Conservative 'bedblocker'
MPs. Butterfill explained that a quadruple heart bypass laid him off for three
months.

Some of his own local activists didn't know about the op until they read the
apology.

Egypt's Dai is cast

THE son of a Pontypridd girl is set to become one of the most powerful men in
the Middle East. Welsh nurse's daughter Suzanne Mubarak grew up in the old
mining town before marrying husband Hosni, President of Egypt. Mubarak indicated
last week that he plans to hand over power to his and Suzanne's son Gamal, or
'Dai Camel' as he is known in the Valleys.

LAST week, Dog said Cheltenham Ladies' College old girl and Labour MP Sally
Keeble was blocking plans to strip private schools of their charitable status.
Ms Keeble assures us she backs the move by the Charities Bill committee. Dog is
happy to put the record straight.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SALES DRIVE: SARAH KENNEDY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              15 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 26, 2004

Labour fears over teenage vote

BYLINE: by Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 339 words


GIVING 16-year-olds the vote could send election turnouts plunging by up to 9
per cent in some areas, according to private polling seen by Downing Street.

The fears over teenage apathy will be a further setback to campaigners -
including some ministers - who have argued that if 16-year-olds can serve in the
armed forces or pay taxes, they should have rights at the ballot box.

Party strategists are warning it could also boost the Liberal Democrats'
chances: whereas once the 'youth vote' was thought naturally inclined to Labour,
it would now be split between them and the Liberal Democrats, whose stance on
tuition fees and the war have been popular with young people. Teenagers could
also be tempted by the UK Independence Party as a protest vote.

One Downing Street insider said its research suggested giving teens the vote
could mean 'a net gain for Labour of only 150 votes in each constituency' -
hardly a compelling argument.

The calculations come ahead of a vote at this week's Labour Party conference on
the issue. Delegates will decide between one motion demanding a concrete
manifesto pledge to introduce votes at 16, while the other merely offers to
consider the issue. The government is expected to support the latter, amid
visible signs of cold feet over the issue.

However Alex Folkes, campaign manager for Votes At 16, said younger teenagers
could be more likely to vote than 18- to 24-year-olds, as they tended to live at
home and were easy to sign on to the electoral register. 'They may be more
likely to vote on a single issue, and at the moment that is Iraq, but that's
almost certainly not going to be the case when they finally come to vote.'

Turnout is thought to have fallen by about three per cent as a result of
18-year-olds getting the vote. The impact on turnout would be particularly
severe in constituencies with high concentrations of young people, such as the
big cities - Labour's natural heartlands, and the kind of seats the Liberal
Democrats are now targeting.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 26, 2004

Comment: An Italian lesson for Europe: The declining birth rate in Italy offers
a harsh warning to economies which fail to cater for the needs of families

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1175 words


FOR THE PAST FEW days, Italy has been bewitched by 79-year-old Giorgio
Angelozzi's quest for a family. The former Latin teacher had placed an advert in
the Corriere della Sera, mourning his loneliness as he became increasingly
infirm and asked to be adopted as a grandfather. On Friday, besieged by offers,
he had found his family.

The story had such a resonance not only for its charm and bathos, but because it
spoke to one of the disturbing but increasingly dominant themes in Italian life
and which was the organising topic at last week's annual Anglo-Italian
conference at the former monastery in Siena's outlying village of Pontignano.
Italy is dying - and Mr Angelozzi is a forerunner of what is to come.

For Italy is suffering a baby bust; in 2004, its population is starting to
decline. Even if Italian men and women start to form more families earlier and
have more babies in the immediate future, Italy's population is set to drop from
today's 58 million to some 44 million by 2050. If there is no recovery in the
birth rate, its population will fall even further.

No advanced country in modern times has ever experienced such a calamity, a
contemporary version of a medieval plague. The consequence of a population
falling by these numbers infects every pore of a civilisation.

The rate of economic growth falls before, ultimately, it contracts. Schools and
companies alike face stagnation and decline; what grows is every aspect of care
for the elderly. Pensions become unaffordable. Music, film, literature, art and
theatre all start to wilt before the same ageing and decline contagion. The
wellsprings of creativity - optimism, hope for a better tomorrow and the need to
explore the human condition - run dry. The defining feelings are of loneliness
and defeat.

In Italy, there is an urgent debate about why the birth rate is so low. The
Vatican's grip on the country's culture and mores remains fierce, even if
attendance at church is in headlong decline; guilt-ridden Italians have children
only when they marry. Just 10 per cent of births are outside marriage; in
Britain, it is 41 per cent. Moreover, the average 30-year-old Italian man is
still living at home, while the average age that an Italian woman has her first
child is over 30, compared to under 27 in Britain. Marrying late, Italians
necessarily have fewer children.

THE MOST CITED reason is housing. Rented accommodation is over-regulated, and
buying a house or flat is made impossibly difficult. Regulated Italian banks,
protected from takeover by Italy's complex system of family cross-shareholding
in Europe's least competitive financial system, are famously hopeless at
mortgage lending. While first-time buyers in Britain can expect to borrow as
much 100 per cent of the price of their first house or flat, and pay less than 2
per cent in fees and tax, Italian first-time buyers are lucky if they can borrow
two-thirds of the value of their first house - and pay an extraordinary 10 per
cent in fees and tax. Young Italians have to live at home and save, because
their banking system won't take risks.

The best route out of Italy's birth-rate crisis would be, say, Royal Bank of
Scotland or HBOS buying a chunk of the Italian banking system and importing the
British approach to mortgage lending, while the Italian government slashed taxes
and lawyers' fees on house purchase. Italians would save less and spend more;
the economy would start to grow faster in response; the birth rate would rise -
and the crisis might begin to unwind. But that clearly is not going to happen.

Even if it did, it would only be a beginning. The decision to have a child is
not just about having your own roof over your head; it is about whether the
wider economic, social and cultural structures support women's need both to
combine independence and the rewards from working with all the demands that fall
to them in child-rearing.

There is much less part-time work in Italy than in Britain; childcare structures
are even more primitive; working patterns are habitually family unfriendly; and
Italian 'new' men, ready to take a half-share in the duties of parenting, are
scarcer in Italy than they are in Britain.

The vortex of gender relationships, morality, traditional expectations of women
and women's changing expecta tions of themselves, inflexible work patterns and
expensive housing that contribute to the falling birth rate are all more acute,
but their irresolution is confronting Italy with a crisis that menaces its very
being as a national community and continuing civilisation.

But we in Britain cannot be smug. We share the same problems. Part of the
explanation for our slightly higher birth rate is that we have twice as many
immigrants as Italy and their birth rate is much higher, but the birth rate of
second- and third-generation British immigrant women soon falls to the levels of
the population that has been here for longer, only just above the Italian.

THE KEY TO the projections that Britain's population will rise is the
expectation that we will continue to benefit from more immigration, but if the
numbers dry up or the right-wing populist press, Ukip and Migration Watch get
their way, Britain would be facing, if not the same collapse in population as
Italy, a gentle decline. Even as it is, our average age is set to climb.

In this debate, business cannot escape either the consequences or playing its
part in finding a solution, something that is increasingly understood in Italy,
however reluctantly.

When your very civilisation is under threat, small firms complaining about the
cost of maternity and paternity leave so their staff can have children are given
short shrift. It is blatantly obvious that business is part of the national
community and has to contribute to the common good or else it goes down the pan
with the rest of society.

It would be good if we shared some of that same robustness in Britain. Tony
Blair will use his conference speech on Tuesday to commit the government to a
universal, flexible system of childcare as a third-term priority. Patricia
Hewitt, Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, has already argued that
Labour should extend existing rights to paternity and maternity leave and
flexible working.

The CBI, to its credit, has refused to launch a pre-emptive attack about how
this will place an insupportable burden on business, leaving that to the various
lobby groups representing small businesses. They need slapping down. Those
businesses have to operate in a society which is coming to terms with the fact
that men and women alike now hold new attitudes and behave in different ways to
the ways they behaved in past decades.

Their needs have to be accommodated and supported, not just as a matter of
principle but in our collective self-interest. Business must share the burden of
these changes or confront trading in an economy and civilisation that shrivels
on the vine.

Italy, and Signor Angelozzi, offer warnings we must heed.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 26, 2004

Comment: WITHOUT PREJUDICE: How to handle racism: The government can - and
should - stop BNP members joining the Civil Service:

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1105 words


EXTREMISM IS AN affront to Britain's national myth. Extremism in either its
fascist or communist forms was what excitable continentals embraced in the
twentieth century to the horror of the temperate British who carried on muddling
through in our endearingly commonsensical way, and were much the happier for it.

The idea of dear old Blighty standing apart from a deranged Europe doesn't hold
up too well today. Leaving aside the fact that no European country has been hit
as hard by extreme free market ideology as Britain, the British can no longer
pretend that fascism begins at Calais. In the summer local and European
elections the British National Party received 800,000 votes. As there have been
incessant exposes of the party's true nature, only the most dim-witted among
that 800,000 could have failed to know they were supporting neoNazis. The rest
knew, but didn't care.

The grim performance of the BNP was overshadowed by sensation of the political
year: the UK Independence Party, which secured 2.5 million votes. Although
anti-Europeanism was its main attraction, its anti-immigration platform helped
too. It's not completely fair to describe Ukip as a far-right party, as many in
the pro-European media do, but it's not completely unfair either.

Meanwhile, on what used to be considered the left an extraordinary and, in view
of the murky turn much mainstream liberal-left thought has taken, telling pact
between Marxists from the Socialist Workers Party and Islamic fundamentalists
from the religious right, has created the Respect Party. It got nowhere in the
local and European elections, but did very well in the by-elections in Coventry
and Birmingham. Respect hasn't received anything approaching the critical
scrutiny endured by Ukip and the BNP - liberals are hopeless at confronting the
sinister forces on their 'side', or even admitting that they exist. But
Respect's leader, George Galloway, was notorious for saluting the 'courage' of
Saddam Hussein and spending his holidays with the tyrant's henchmen. As with the
BNP, at least some of the people who voted for Respect must have known perfectly
well that their party was unlikely to be an unequivocal supporter of the ideals
of liberty, equality and fraternity.

With so many dark currents swirling, it's possible to sympathise with the Home
Office's suggestion that far-right supporters should be banned from being civil
servants. You can hardly expect a fascist to treat black and brown Britons
fairly, and when he is given the coercive powers of a police, prison or
immigration officer the results will be violent assaults or miscarriages of
justice. The far-right likes nothing better than to dress-up in uniforms and
exploit the benefit of the doubt given to law enforcement officers. A blanket
ban seems a sensible precaution.

The strong counter-argument is that a civil servant's politics are only the
government's business in wartime. Fascists were purged during the Second World
War and communists were blacklisted during the Cold War. By saying that members
of the BNP can't work for the state, the government is implying that racism and
racial tension in Britain is so bad the country is close to civil war. Is it
really so bleak?

AS IMPORTANT IS the question of how a ban would work in practice. Take the cases
of the charming husband and wife team, Lorraine Hollick, an officer at Holloway
women's prison, and Simon Thistlethwaite, an officer at neighbouring men's
prison, Pentonville, which we cover on the news pages.

Evidence uncovered in the police investigation was pretty damning. But they deny
being racists. To stop them having the power to control and punish black and
Asian prisoners, the Prison Service must go through an elaborate, quasi-legal
investigation which gives ample opportunity for lawyerly evasions.

Their toilet was called 'Adolf Hitler's bunker room' and decorated with German
helmets and SS memorabilia. Wasn't this the teensiest hint that the officers
were fans of fascism?

Not at all, replied Thistlethwaite. It was a bit of a joke. Friends of his knew
he liked a laugh and sent him presents of SS daggers and the like. No harm in
the silliness.

OK, said the police, what about tags labelled 'national nigger hunting licences'
we found in your filing cabinet.

Oh, I picked them up at a scooter rally and forgot about them.

And the framed Ku Klux Klan print?

Another joke, like the SS stuff.

And the photo of the burning cross?

Nothing to do with Ku Klux Klan. It was taken in France.

All right, how about the white hooded mask we found in your wardrobe.

That's nothing to do with the KKK either. Actually it's cream not white and was
worn by convicts in Australian prisons when they went to chapel.

And so it went on. White Pride records and copies of Strike Force magazine were
dismissed as junk collected and forgotten years ago.

The Home Office has plans to deal with fascism in the Civil Service. Job
applicants and civil servants would have to disclose membership of the BNP.
Members looking for work would be refused employment, while BNP members already
in the Service would be fired. Like many other prohibitions, the proposed ban
has a brutally simple appeal: fascists can't work for the Civil Service and
that's the end of the matter. Ministers like bans. They allow them to appear
tough and decisive in the few seconds the TV stations allow them to appear on
screen.

The difficulty is that you can be an ardent supporter of the far-right and not
be a member of the BNP or its splinter groups - our prison officers denied
absolutely that they belonged to any racist organisation. Equally, neoNazis
aren't the most honest people around and the Home Office can't guarantee that
they won't lie when they fill in their job applications. Indeed, as an admission
of BNP membership would guarantee a refusal, it's certain that they will lie.

For all the tough talk, there's no substitute for managers in the Civil Service
and elsewhere going through the laborious task of interviewing job applicants
carefully, monitoring their work conscientiously and taking claims of racism
seriously. There aren't headlines in it and it won't win applause for Blunkett
at the Labour Party Conference, but good management remains the best protection.

Unfortunately, the same backlash which makes Britain such a congenial place for
the far-right has also led to a near doubling of the prison population in the
past decade. Governors can't cope with the bulging jails and are barely in a
position to provide good, bad or indifferent management.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 26, 2004

LEADER CROSSBENCHER; MANDY TO FACE MEP GRILLING

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 187 words


OUR new European Commissioner, Peter Mandelson, is set for an in-depth probing
from MEPs when he goes before the European Parliament this week.

Mandy, like all new Commissioners, must face a question-andanswer session with
MEPs before taking up his post. In the usual spirit of EU democracy, all the
questions have to be submitted and approved in advance.

Among the questions agreed with officials will be one that asks each new
Commissioner which "actions" under the new constitutional treaty the Commission
can "already undertake. . . without waiting for formal ratification".

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage says: "This question is outrageous. It shows that the EU
intends to press ahead with this agenda regardless of the public.

"Even though we haven't had ratification by any national parliaments and no
referendums, by the time the British referendum comes, we'll be told that all of
this has been enacted already so there's no point voting against it."

Asked what Mandy's answer would be to what "actions" could go ahead before a
British referendum, a senior Downing Street source insisted: "None."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              19 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 26, 2004

LEADER; WE DON'T BELIEVE HOWARD'S TOUGH TALK OVER ASYLUM

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 567 words


MICHAEL HOWARD says that he is going to crack down on the immigration and asylum
scandal. Don't you believe him. The Tory leader is mouthing a mantra that he
hopes will grab votes - and I can prove it.

Last week, the chairman of the Conservative Party, Liam Fox, advised Mr Howard
that he needed to take a tougher line on immigration to counter the threat of
Ukip. So what does Michael Howard do? He steals Ukip's clothes.

Virtually everything he announced as Tory Party policy had already been said by
me.

I said we would introduce a yearly quota for immigration to the UK. So did he,
although he was too cowardly to put a number on it as we did.

Given that 91,000 people leave the UK every year, we said the limit on
immigration should be put at 100,000, thus avoiding any increase in the
population and the consequent pressures on housing, and health and social
services. I said we would adopt a system similar to that of Australia, whereby
prospective immigrants would be awarded points on the basis of their ability to
make a contribution to the British economy and to fit into British society.

So did he.

I said that we would withdraw from the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees because it
was out of date and prevented us from dealing with bogus asylumseekers in a fair
but compassionate manner. So did he.

But while Michael Howard has adorned himself in Ukip clothes, they do not look
right on him:

they do not fit.

This is because they have been thrown on in pursuit of electoral advantage
rather than out of political conviction.

Our policy came from listening to the British people. They want to be fair. They
want to be compassionate. They do not make judgments based on race, or creed, or
colour. They are not racists. But they do want to control their own borders.

More than 80 per cent of them - including 52 per cent from the ethnic minorities
- want immigration more strictly controlled. And no wonder. A quarter of a
million new people settled here in 2002 - many of them dependents. On top of
these entrants, 50,000 illegal immigrants were detected.

We know that 191,000 people entered from the new Eastern European members of the
EU in July this year alone, and that there will be tens of thousands more if
Turkey joins the EU.

It is good to see the Tory leader adopting sensible policies. But how long will
it be, do you think, before he comes to his senses and adopts the Ukip policy of
an amicable withdrawal from the EU?

LAST Tuesday, I visited Irish gypsies in their encampment on a cricket field in
Bulwell, Nottingham, to ask them why they had previously occupied a nearby
school playing field and had now churned up the cricket pitch.

Three women told me they lived on benefits, that their children were collected
by council taxis to be taken to school every day and that all the men were out
cutting down trees.

They agreed that if someone had broken down their fences, damaged their field,
disturbed their neighbourhood, they would be angry.

So why do we tolerate their behaviour? There is nothing wrong with people
leading alternative lifestyles. But no one has the right to damage other
people's lives and property.

And no one has the right to live off the backs of working people and to opt out
of contributing to the cost of the doctors, hospitals, schools, roads, and all
the rest, that they happily enjoy.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              20 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 26, 2004

MRHOWARD'S AFTER YOUR V OTES - W ITH OUR POLICIES

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 580 words


MICHAEL HOWARD says that he is going to crack down on the immigration and asylum
scandal. Don't you believe him. He is not sincere. Mr Howard does not really
believe in the policy.

The Tory leader is mouthing a mantra that he hopes will grab votes - and I can
prove it.

Last week, the chairman of the Conservative Party, Liam Fox, advised Mr Howard
that he needed to take a tougher line on immigration to counter the threat of
Ukip. So what does Michael Howard do? He steals Ukip's clothes.

Virtually everything he announced as Tory Party policy had already been said by
me when setting out Ukip's policy on immigration and asylum at the annual London
region dinner in Holborn two weeks ago.

I said we would introduce a yearly quota for immigration to the UK. So did he,
although he was too cowardly to put a number on it as we did.

Given that 91,000 people leave the UK every year, we said the limit on
immigration should be put at 100,000, thus avoiding any increase in the
population and the consequent pressures on housing, and health and social
services.

I said we would adopt a system similar to that of A ustralia, whereby
prospective immigrants would be awarded points on the basis of their skills,
their aptitude, and their ability to make a contribution to the British economy
and to fit into British society. So did he.

I said that we would withdraw from the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees because it
was out of date and prevented us from dealing with bogus asylum-seekers in a
fair but compassionate manner. So did he.

But while Michael Howard has adorned himself in Ukip clothes, they do not look
right on him: he does not look comfortable, they do not fit.

This is because they have been thrown on in haste and in pursuit of electoral
advantage rather than out of political conviction.

OUR POLICY came from listening to the British people. What they want is clear.

They are fed up with being lied to. They are fed up with the Home Secretary
saying, as he did on Newsnight, that there is no upper limit to immigration.
They do not want any more Peterboroughs, where - as the Government admits - the
influx of immigrants has put all the local services under pressure, damaged
people's lives, and threatened race relations.

The British people want to be fair. They want to be compassionate. They do not
make judgements based on race, or creed, or colour. They are not racists. But
they do want to control their own borders.

Opinion polls attest to this. More than 80 per cent of them - including 52 per
cent from the ethnic minorities - want immigration more strictly controlled. And
no w onder. A quarter of a million new people settled here in 2002 - many of
them dependents. On top of these entrants, 50,000 illegal immigrants were
detected.

No one knows how many illegal immigrants remained undetected, but with more than
one million visas issued every year - and no checks on them coming in or going
out - there could be thousands more.

We know that 191,000 people entered from the new Eastern European members of the
EU in July this year alone, and that there will be tens of thousands more if
Turkey joins the EU.

Perhaps we should all be pleased that Michael Howard has at last woken up to all
this. It is good to see the Tory leader adopting sensible policies.

But how long will it be, do you think, before he comes to his senses and adopts
the Ukip policy of an amicable withdrawal from the EU?

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              21 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           September 26, 2004, Sunday

The Prophet Mohammed was a paedophile, says Kilroy-Silk aide

BYLINE: BY DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 526 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the television presenter sacked by the BBC for writing
disparaging remarks about Arabs, employs an assistant who likens the Prophet
Mohammed to a paedophile.

Tony Bennett, a member of the UK Independence Party, was hauled before a party
disciplinary committee two years ago for writing offensive remarks about Islam
in a pamphlet published in 2000. He was banned from holding any UKIP office for
two years.

Despite his uncompromising views on Islam, Mr Bennett was given a job a month
ago as a political researcher by Mr Kilroy-Silk, who became a UKIP MEP in June.
Last night Mr Bennett was unrepentant about his comments on Mohammed, insisting
that they were "factual".

The disclosure that Mr Kilroy-Silk employs someone with such strident views will
be an embarrassment to the MEP, who has been trying to play down the impression
that he is anti-Arab since his BBC sacking in January.

In the 2000 pamphlet, Mr Bennett, a former UKIP parliamentary candidate,
described Mohammed as having had a child bride and suggested that he was a
paedophile.

Mr Bennett expanded on his views last week, saying: "If you look closely at
Mohammed's life in detail, he had many wives, and it is an admitted fact that
one of them was nine years old when he called her to get married and they had
sexual relations. Some argue that she was eight."

He added: "If that happened in this country today then the person concerned
would be charged with child sexual abuse."

Mulsim leaders, however, have said that Mr Bennett had got his facts wrong. They
said that Mohammed had arranged to marry one of his wives at a young age but
that the marriage had not been consummated until years later.

Inayat Bunglawala, of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "Mr Bennett is
obviously basing his knowledge of Islam on books of hatred." Mr Kilroy-Silk's
decision to employ Mr Bennett sits uneasily with his claims that he has "no
truck with Islamophobia".

The former television presenter had his BBC1 morning show dropped for writing
disparaging remarks in the Sunday Express. Under an article entitled "We owe
Arabs nothing", he wrote that Arabs were "suicide bombers, limb amputators and
women repressors".

"Few of them make much contribution to the welfare of the rest of the world," he
wrote. "Indeed, apart from oil - which was discovered, is produced and paid for
by the West - what do they contribute? Can you think of anything?"

During the subsequent furore, he insisted that he had never criticised Muslims
but had only intended to direct his comments at Arab states. He said that his
television show had "done more to improve race relations in this country than
any other single institution".

Yesterday, Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "I'm aware that Mr Bennett was disciplined. I
have not gone through all the details. I found out about this only a week ago
and I have no problems with him.

"The pamphlet was a couple of pages that he sent round to two or three
interested people to try to explain why September 11 had happened. It was a very
reasoned, academic exposition of what he saw as the Koran at that time and what
it said and didn't say."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              22 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           September 26, 2004, Sunday

Peter Hulme Cross

SECTION: News; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 44 words

In an article last week, Peter Hulme Cross was described as the Conservative
chairman of the Greater London Authority's Audit Panel.

Mr Hulme Cross is, in fact, the UK Independence Party chairman of the London
Assembly Audit Panel. We apologise for the error.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              23 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 25, 2004

Howard on the right track at last

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1055 words


AS ANY middleclass person knows, New Labour has done nothing but attack their
wallets and their values since it came to power.

Taxes have risen to the tune of about an extra Pounds 1,000 per household per
year. Meanwhile, those who are thrifty, prudent, enterprising and hardworking
are forced to subsidise more and more heavily an increasing proportion of the
population who cannot be bothered with such disciplines.

For too long, no one in mainstream politics has had the courage to articulate
the outrage of this assault on Middle England. However, now, almost at the 11th
hour, Michael Howard is prepared to do so.

Recognising that rising house prices have brought two million families into the
inheritance tax trap, he proposes to raise the threshold to a realistic figure
of Pounds 1 million.

It is also suggested that the Conservatives will lower stamp duty on house
purchases, which is widely seen as a tax inflicted on predominantly the
Tory-voting South of England.

These promises come not before time. One reason why the Tories have failed to
make much impact since Mr Howard became leader is that their policies have been
perceived as too similar to Labour's.

Mr Howard is also under pressure to reverse Gordon Brown's Pounds 5 billion
taxation of dividends earned by pension funds, which has caused a crisis for
many people facing retirement.

Of course, financial matters are not the only issue aggrieving the public and Mr
Howard is right to address another: immigration. In a policy cheekily lifted
from the UK Independence-Party, he calls for quotas for immigrants and asylum
seekers.

This, too, is sensible and overdue.

Indeed, he is being urged to go further and propose a complete moratorium on
immigration for a year or two in order to sort out the terrible mess caused by
Blair's government.

rush of policy initiatives is explained by the fact that the General Election
could be as little as seven months away and that the Tories' poll ratings are
still dismal.

If their tax proposals can be presented coherently and the cuts in spending can
be justified without damage to key public services, Labour will be thrown on to
the defensive.

The same will be the case with immigration. It is a relief that the Tory Party
has finally thrown off its fear of being branded 'nasty' and is now prepared to
defend the electorate against an incompetent state that has lost control of this
country's borders.

None of this, though, may prevent the Tories from coming fourth - behind Labour,
the Lib Dems and UKIP - in next week's Hartlepool by-election.

Such a drubbing would be a cause for dismay, but it should not cause them to
lose their nerve about the new direction they are taking.

Their only chance of success in the General Election is to follow their
instincts.

For if people are given a choice between voting for a real Leftwing party
(Labour), or one that is merely pretending to be one, they will choose the real
thing every time.

THE British National Party's thuggery and bigotry revolts decent people.

However, the proposal to ban its members from working in the Civil Service is
monstrous. The BNP remains a legal organisation.

This is from a government, moreover, that welcomed the murderers of Sinn Fein
into public positions in Ulster.

NONE of us should be shocked that the British Council has ditched any symbolism
redolent of Britain in its new logo. I'm amazed it didn't also remove the word
'British' for being so repulsively nationalistic and, well, British. Sadly, the
Council is following the lead of the Government, which stealthily seeks to
remove the Union flag or the Crown from any of our national institutions and
public services. Having tried, and failed, to promote Britannia as 'cool', the
new establishment now seems to think it's better to pretend it doesn't exist at
all.

In that case, it had better wind up the British Council altogether.

HAPPY FAMILIES GAME A CHARITY, Parents for Children, advertised in yesterday's
Mail for a family to adopt a dear little handicapped boy. I hope he finds one
and goes on to lead a life of happiness and fulfilment.

According to the advert, the youngster needs a family - 'preferably' with both a
mother and father. I'm sure one parent is better than none. I'm also sure that
adoption should be encouraged as an alternative to abortion on demand. And I'm
sure this charity is highly commendable and deserves support.

But isn't having two parents in a family, especially where a child is adopted
and has a severe disability, more than simply 'preferable'?

I'M pleased the BBC has decided not to transmit the lurid cartoon series
Popetown, which features a senile pontiff surrounded by a gang of backstabbing
cardinals. For too long, Christianity has been an acceptable target for
vilification, while broadcasters run scared of offending other religions.

However, if Popetown is so very unacceptable, why is the BBC proposing to profit
from it by releasing it on DVD?

THERE are few sadder spectacles than an ageing rock star, as Sir Elton John
showed with his hysterical behaviour on arriving at an airport in Taiwan. Sir
Elton flew into a rage because he had to go through immigration with what the
Labour Party calls 'ordinary people' rather than have VIP treatment.

His publicist issued a statement declaring how 'brave' this delicate little
flower had been to endure this 'frightening'experience.

Will he now say 'ordinary people' are far too common to buy Elton's CDs?

Guv, it's an unfair cop GIVEN the obsession of what we are supposed to call the
police 'service' with political correctness - something largely irrelevant to
its supposed job of fighting crime - I am not remotely surprised that PC Tariq
Mahmood was allowed to keep his job after committing a string of serious
motoring offences.

Be in no doubt: had PC Mahmood not been a member of an ethnic minority, he would
have been on the dole faster than you could say: 'Evening all!' The only
surprise, given what happened to controversial Metropolitan Police
Superintendent Ali Dizaei - who was cleared of allegations of dishonesty after a
multi million-pound inquiry into his conduct and whose lifestyle way exceeded
his income - is that PC Mahmood hasn't also been promoted.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 25, 2004

Britain faces Chechen-style war, says Ukip leader

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 370 words


Mike Nattrass, the deputy leader of the UK Independence party, warned yesterday
that Britain might have to fight its way out of Europe in the same way that
Chechyna was fighting to free itself from Russia.

His remarks, on the eve of the Ukip annual conference in Bristol, come a
fortnight after Chechen rebels stormed a school in Beslan and murdered more than
330 children and parents. They will raise questions about the politics and
judgment of some of the senior figures in the party.

He told a debate sponsored by the non-partisan Institute of Citizenship attended
by the Conservative MP David Heathcoat-Amory and Chris Bryant, the chair of the
Labour Move ment for Europe: "We are entering a federal trap. The constitution
is a federal trap and once signed we cannot get out. In the same way that
Chechnya is part of the Soviet Union, we are being dragged into the European
Union.

"I hope we never have to fight our way out . . . It will be like the Chechnya
situation because the Russians won't let the Chechens out".

Mr Nattrass came under repeated challenge to withdraw his remarks, but he stuck
by his position, insisting it might be necessary to fight to "liberate" Britain
from Europe.

His belief that Britain will be trapped in the EU for ever is based on the fact
that a qualified majority vote would be required for a country to leave the EU.

Mr Bryant said last night: "You only have to scratch the surface of Ukip to see
the madness lurking underneath. Anyone who witnessed the tragic scenes in Beslan
will find his remarks deeply abhorrent. The people who committed these crimes
were not freedom fighters and nor is the European Union an oppressive state."

A tape of the meeting was made by the institute, which is non-partisan but
deeply concerned about high levels of ignorance.

It commissioned research from Mori in August that showed 82% of those questioned
felt they did not have enough information about the EU constitution to make a
considered decision in a referendum. And 80% admitted they could not name a
single MEP in their region.

The institute said that democracy depended on informed, constructive debate.

guardian.co.uk/politics/ otherparties


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 25, 2004

Cricket: Now just ask an Aussie how to spell s-t-u-f-f-e-d: Dave Podmore on a
cricket news blackout in Oz

BYLINE: Dave Podmore

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 723 words


Sometimes you have to put your hand up to take your hat off. So Pod is very
happy to salute one of the most professional and clinically executed victories
in recent times. I'm referring of course to Queensland's magnificent win over
Easter Island in the Pan-Pacific Spelling Championships, reports of which
virtually filled up the Sydney Morning Herald's sports supplement on Wednesday
(page 48 was devoted to the dwarf-throwing results).

I especially enjoyed their star columnist Fitz's graphic account of the
nail-biting

"Mississippi" tie-breaker.

Personally, Pod would have set the Queensland team a word that was a real
stretch, like "lose" or "mauling" or "humiliation". Which is what the rest of
the world, plus 170 actual spectators in windcheaters and raincoats, witnessed
at Edgbaston.

Readers of the Guardian International Weekly in the southern hemisphere, who may
not have heard this because of the news blackout down there, should know we
stuffed the Aussies so heartily that no doubt Mr Blair's wonderful government is
now rushing through a bill outlawing one-day cricket as a barbaric sport.

Let's face it, the boys from the home of the wild budgerigar didn't get within a
country mile of England's performance, not even when Freddie Flintoff gifted
them his wicket. Sir Fredsworth's mind was probably occupied with an acceptance
speech this week for his Player of the Year Award, his Nobel prize and his Emmy
for best series.

Talking of Six Feet Under, Australia seem to be headed straight down the dunny
right now, and as I watched the sorry spectacle unfold Dave Podmore found
himself asking, is this the same side that only a week ago scraped home against
the USA? I was there as a guest of Anybet ("Anysport, Anytime, Anywhere")
opening their new online gambling village, and I'm happy to report that both
UKIP and the Countryside Alliance are now 200 quid better off as a result of my
charity spread bet. I successfully surmised that Darren Lehmann had got his body
mass index up to 99.94, as a mark of respect to David Boon's beer-drinking
record.

So at least Ricky's Roos are still competitive in one arena. But it's next
year's Ashes series that counts, and after the events in Birmingham it comes as
no great surprise to hear that the Aussies are now threatening to pull out of
the tour unless the live TV rights are granted exclusively to BBC3, with a
highlights package on E4 during the breaks in the World Cinema slot.

Were it not for my feelings of national loyalty and the fact that I haven't been
asked, Pod would be very tempted to put on his motivational hat and try and
restore some pride in the Aussie camp, with particular responsibility for
reviving the career of Glenn McGrath, a demoralised husk of an international
cricketer.

My theory is, Pidge's chronic loss of form dates back to him agreeing to play
for Middlesex in the summer. Apparently he'd got the wrong end of the stick
about St John's Wood. It isn't that kind of wood, mate, you can't go pig-hunting
in it.

That must have been embarrassing for the guy to have to explain to his
fellow-lovers of the noble sport, Matty Hayden and Andrew Symonds (who described
the rules in Wisden recently: "First we set the dogs on them, then we go in with
knives."). Though a look at Time Out magazine would have told them there were
plenty of endangered species around the corner at Regent's Park Zoo just sitting
there asking for it. Not to mention other wildlife in serious need of a cull
after dark on Hampstead Heath.

Right now I'm too busy to help drag Ponting's Parakeets off the bottom of the
world rankings. Since Brian Clough went up to the great ITV Panel in the Sky
this week, I'm in the frame to be the next Mister East Midlands, charged with
putting the region on the map in a positive light. And arranging twinning
ceremonies with French villages with agreeable vineyards.

Actually it's not the first time I've stepped into Brian's shoes - it happened
one night, literally, after a good session at the trattoria by Trent Bridge with
Notts and Windies legend Sir Garry Sobers. Clough and Sobers at the same table -
what a photo opportunity!

Dave Podmore will be telling Christopher Douglas and Andrew Nickolds to turn
their mobile phones off when he appears this Christmas in Mother Goose.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2004, Saturday

UKIP JIBE ON CHECHNYA

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


UKIP'S deputy leader sparked fury yesterday after saying Britain would have to
fight like Chechen terrorists to win freedom from Europe.

MEP Mike Nattrass told an audience of stunned guests: "Just as Chechnya was
forced to be part of the Soviet Union, so we are forced to be part of Europe.

"I hope we never have to fight our way out... It will be like a Chechnya
situation."

His comments at a meeting in Cardiff to discuss the European Constitution come
less than a month after 300 were killed in the Beslan school siege.

Outraged Labour MP Chris Bryant said: "These remarks are deeply, deeply
offensive."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              27 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 25, 2004, Saturday

Britain 'is EU's Chechnya'

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 15

LENGTH: 214 words


The deputy leader of the UK Independence Party has suggested that Europe's
proposed constitution could lead to civil war and likened opponents of the
European Union to Chechen separatists.

Mike Nattrass, an MEP for the West Midlands, said that Britain could be
prevented from ever leaving the European Union by other members under the terms
of the treaty. He asked if the only option left would be "to fight our way out".
His comparison between British opponents of EU membership and Chechen fighters
came at a seminar in Cardiff on Thursday evening organised by the Institute for
Citizenship, an impartial charitable trust.

He argued that Article 1.59 of the treaty would allow voluntary withdrawal of a
member from the EU only if approved by a qualified majority of two thirds in the
Council of Ministers. If Britain wanted to withdraw but was blocked from doing
so, he asked, what options would be left and would it mean fighting our way out,
as Chechens were seeking to do in Russia?

When The Times asked Mr Nattras to clarify his remarks yesterday, he went still
further and suggested that such a scenario might mean civil war. He said: "What
is the alternative? You are heading right into a civil war situation. What are
the British people supposed to do?"


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 24, 2004, Friday

Mothers want help - not Hewitt's hectoring

BYLINE: BY ALICE THOMSON

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1036 words

'Trust me, I'm a family man as well," Tony Blair told the hostage Ken Bigley's
brother this week in an attempt to reassure him. And he's being sincere. This
Government is obsessed with the family. Gordon Brown's last Budget was centred
on baby bonds, childcare and child tax credits. The new co-prime minister, Alan
Milburn, gave up his job for his family before being tempted back. His deputy,
Ruth Kelly, has fitted in four children between her red boxes.

Cherie Blair's latest book, The Goldfish Bowl, is all about prime ministerial
family life. There is a children's minister and a children's tsar.

Now Patricia Hewitt, in an interview this week with the Financial Times, has
made it clear that the family will be the centrepiece of Labour's manifesto.

She says Mr Blair must stop appearing "so absorbed in Iraq" and concentrate on
domestic life because that's what matters to the country.

Downing Street research shows that three million middle-class voters who backed
Labour in 1997 have lost faith in Mr Blair. Polling also shows that 67 per cent
put "the family" at the top of their priorities.

So the Trade Secretary has been given free rein to talk about the family as much
as she wants. Only a day after her interview, she was insisting it was our
national duty to procreate, not for any selfish reasons, but for the good of the
country. Somebody has to pay for the baby boomers when they get old. Immigrants,
evidently, will not do; she wants young English children filling our nurseries
and being taught to work hard to pay for their parents' dotage.

For once I am a New Labour role model. I have had three children in four years.
My children were not conceived in an attempt to help out our current pensions
crisis, but I am sure they will all do their bit.

I should be thrilled that Labour wants to do so much for working mothers. That
it will help us cajole our children into eating their vegetables, issue
pamphlets for our men on how to be good fathers and force companies to give us
longer maternity leave.

But Labour's view of families is nearly as antiquated as UKIP's belief that a
woman's role is to clean behind the fridge. Labour still believes that it's all
or nothing. You are either a stay-at-home mum or a career woman.

There is no third way. The women in charge of policy all come from an older
generation of feminists who fought their way to the top to prove that they were
exactly the same as men. Ms Hewitt, Tessa Jowell and Margaret Hodge managed to
juggle high-powered, full-time jobs with children. They assume the only
alternative is to be Norma Major, stuck at home with the kids all day, filling
up the Teasmade.

Mrs Blair epitomised the old-fashioned superwoman in her interview with this
newspaper when she said she decided to write her book because she thought she
was having a fifth child and it would give her something to do when she wasn't
in court during her maternity leave.

Labour's policies are still skewed towards pushing women back into the workplace
so they can "benefit" society. Mr Brown, in his last Budget, made provisions for
nursery places for babies in children's centres despite all the research that
shows they would be better off at home in their first two years. Charles Clarke,
the Education Secretary, wants schools to stay open 12 hours a day to cater for
working mothers.

Many Tories are stuck in the same time warp, insisting that mothers should be
given tax incentives to stay at home with filled nappies and unfulfilled dreams
for the rest of their lives.

Neither of these stereotypes works any more. New research shows that women now
want to have the best of both worlds by altering their working lifestyle to make
it fit around their role as a mother. If this means they have to sacrifice a
place in the boardroom, they no longer care as long as they are not permanently
chained to the ironing board.

The most extensive British research into the issue, carried out by Dr Catherine
Hakim, a sociology professor at the London School of Economics, suggests nearly
65 per cent of women fall into this "adaptive" category, changing their job
descriptions to accommodate their family's needs and fit in with school
timetables and holidays. Fewer than 20 per cent of women consider their career
their priority and the rest are "home based".

In other words, women prefer a fudge. They don't want their schools to open
longer; they want the flexibility to be able to collect their children from the
playground. And that includes everyone from supermarket assistants to ministers
such as Ruth Kelly, who earlier this month picked up her children on their first
day at school. At the same time, they don't want to be twiddling their thumbs
all morning waiting to bring their kids home.

They don't just want a year's maternity leave before they go back to the
grindstone or only have Mummy as their epitaph. They need to have a job both for
the money and the satisfaction, but they also want to be there for their
children. So they might work from home, part time or change careers altogether.
They don't care if this causes a crisis in the medical profession because there
are not enough women trying to reach the top.

Whether or not the father of their child gets two weeks' paid or unpaid leave is
a minor issue. It's the next 18 years they are trying to sort out. The
Government's bullying of companies to introduce more paid maternity and
paternity leave won't help women's prospects, but as companies realise the
importance of retaining women in the workplace, they are becoming more flexible.

Women need to be able to make their own choices without being pressured by the
Government in any direction. They don't want to feel as over-regulated as
companies, teachers and the police. They don't want a child tax credit system
that has been changed three times in the past six years. They want a fair,
simple tax system that doesn't favour any particular group, good schools, a
reliable NHS, crime-free streets, good public transport to get to their
part-time jobs - that's what should be in the manifesto. Instead, they have
Patricia Hewitt popping up in their bedrooms and their boardrooms interfering in
their lives.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              29 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 24, 2004, Friday

LIB DEMS IN BOURNMOUTH: FALSE PROMISE OR A NEW DAWN: CAN THE LIB DEMS WIN
POWER?;
 LIB DEMS IN BOURNEMOUTH: SO DOES THE BRITISH ELECTORATE AGREE WITH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1962 words


Professor Bernard Crick, 74

Political theorist

Voted Labour in 2001

It's extremely unlikely in the first-past-the-post system that they would be
able to form a majority government.

I think their best hope is still that Labour won't be able to form a majority
without them, and might have to agree to some form of proportional
representation.

In the psychological sense, they are certainly as ready as Labour was in 1997,
when they had only two ministers in their team who had previous experience in
government. Inexperience isn't a massive handicap, because of how supportive the
Civil Service is to ministers.

It's possible that they can come out ahead of the Conservatives.

Alan Bleasdale, 58

Writer and producer

Voted Labour in 2001

The Labour Government is not fit for government, and nor are the Conservatives.
Both are dreadfully incompetent and dangerous; I'd go so far as to say they're
vile. They make me weep with anger.

There were very few people who were more enthusiastic about the arrival of
Labour in 1997, but I'd be wildly enthusiastic to see the end of it now, so long
as the Conservatives don't get in. The other two parties are so incredible that
the Liberals become more credible by the day. I think the events of the world in
the next six to nine months may bring about the fall of the Government, whatever
the Liberals do.

Their opposition to the war might be enough to impress people who aren't always
strongly involved in politics. They strike a chord of decency.

Liz Kershaw, 45

Disc jockey

Voted Lib Dem in 2001

I have always voted for the Liberal Democrats and I'm pleased to see that they
are no longer linked to what people used to describe as a wasted vote.

I think it is really hard to say when a party is ready for government. Before
any party becomes the government, they are all a bunch of amateurs and it is a
case of learning on the job.

I see the party as very intelligent and politically intellectual, as well as
being very articulate. They have never had the chance to show their skills in
government because they have not been given the opportunity. I think there is a
lot of talent in the Liberal Democrat party, and I also know some of them
personally.

Sue Prain, 39

Sales representative

Voted Labour in 2001

I really do like Charles Kennedy, so I would say: Yes, I do see them as a party
of government.

They seem to have a much higher profile today than they used to. I know more
about their policies and they are more coherent than the Conservatives.

One problem with Michael Howard is that he has shot himself in the foot with
Bush, and if Bush wins the next election in the US we will be sidelined. I think
that Tony Blair has run his course and it's time for him to go.

I am seriously considering voting for the Liberal Democrats this time. They
would make a fantastic opposition party. Michael Howard and the Conservatives
just aren't strong enough to hold the Labour Party to task. We need a viable
alternative.

Simon Woolley, 41

Director, Operation Black Vote

Vote not disclosed

For black people, the Liberal Democrats are a clear alternative to traditional
Labour. But many people still get the feeling that the Liberal Democrats don't
do enough within black communities. There is great potential within the black
community for the Liberal Democrats. But they don't use the black talent within
their ranks. If the Lib Dems get it right, particularly with regard to greater
representation of black politicians - they have one black MP now and may have
none at the general election - they have the potential to win the hearts and
minds of Britain's black communities. Where the Lib Dems really fail is in the
big cities. The irony is that many black people have been looking for an
alternative to Labour.

Claire Rayner, 73

Agony aunt

Voted Labour in 2001

I sincerely hope they are ready for government after the Labour Party left me
standing and galloped off to the right. They show concern for ordinary people,
like pensioners, while none of the other parties do despite saying they do. I
feel let down by Labour in spite of having voted for the party all my life. But
I do not think I left Labour. Labour left me. Many of the policies of the
Liberal Democrats are what I would regard as policies of "original Labour". I
would love them to become the main opposition and I do not see any reason why
they should not leapfrog the Tories. This is where they can really hone their
weapons. They have been out in the cold too long.

Richard Grayson, 35

Politics lecturer

Voted Lib Dem in 2001

The Liberal Democrats have a lot of experience in local government and in
Scotland and Wales to draw on. In addition to that, some of their spokesmen, for
example Sir Menzies Campbell and Vince Cable, already look and sound like
ministers.

The Tories are so out of tune with the times they really look like they are
stuck where they are. It is possible that the Lib Dems could get more votes than
the Tories but fewer seats at the next election because of the way the electoral
system works. When they were a serious party of government the Tories used to
win in places like Leicester and Birmingham but now they can't make any progress
in those areas at all.

Kathy Lette, 40

Author

Voted Labour in 2001

Until they are in the hot seat, it's hard to tell whether they are wearing
pinstripe underpants or not. Charles Kennedy has been making some very sober
comments lately.

I think they are absolutely capable of being the main opposition party.

The Tories are prehistoric. Unless they flop into some shore and evolve, they
are just going to become obsolete. I think they are going the way of little toes
and appendixes, getting smaller and smaller because we just don't need them.

The Liberal Democrats are looking far more robust than the Tories now.

Peter Aljoe, 26

Student

Has not voted before

I don't think that the Liberal Democrats are a real alternative to the Labour
Party at the moment because they haven't got enough power. But I don't think
that will always be the case.

Their profile has increased. I still don't think that they have got anything to
offer me, though.

I haven't voted before and I don't think that I could vote in the next election
because politicians seem to be happy to let this country go to rack and ruin no
matter what party they are from.

I wouldn't say that the Liberal Democrats would be a particularly good major
opposition party either. They have come quite a long way but as a nation we are
still split into Labour and Tory.

Ruth Lea, 57

Director of the Centre for Policy Studies

Voted Conservative in 2001

I wouldn't say the Liberal Democrats are ready for government. Some of their
policies are very sensible and you listen to Vince Cable and Menzies Campbell
and think they are capable. But if you look at their front bench they do not
look like a government in waiting. There is still some internal contradiction in
the party. There is a contradiction between old-style liberalism and freeing up
markets. There's a lot of life left in the Tories. The Lib Dems have a long way
to go before they supplant them. They still have a very, very solid base. Thirty
per cent of the vote is a pretty good base of support.

Peter Kellner, 57

Chairman, YouGov

Voted Labour in 2001

No, the Lib Dems are not ready for power and it's greatly to their credit that
they are not. The historical role of the Lib Dems has been to think fresh
thoughts, challenge established views and think outside the box. The moment they
decide to put on the straitjacket of a party seriously preparing for government
they will have to abandon that important function. The question of whether they
will replace the Tories is one of politics, not psephology. If the Tories lose
seats at the next election it might be that the Conservatives would be so
tremendously damaged that they start to fall apart.

You could see a dynamic where one wing of the Tory party makes common cause with
the Liberal Democrats.

Professor Anthony King, 69 Academic

Vote not disclosed

I have no idea whether they are ready for power. But the history of the British
electoral system makes it plain that a third party like the Liberal Democrats
can break through only if one of the two major parties split.

Labour became a major party because the Liberals split. The Liberal/SDP Alliance
failed to become a major party because Labour didn't fall apart.

Votes in the British system go to the part which might form a Government and,
for the foreseeable future, that is the Tories or Labour.

It's possible if the Conservatives go mad after the next election they could
give an opportunity to the Lib Dems, but their future is not in their own hands.

Philip Leith

Stockbroker

Voted Conservative in 2001

The Liberal Democrats are certainly not a party of power. They try to be
everything at once and have wonderful ideas that are not practically feasible.

I don't like their proposal of local income taxes, and Charles Kennedy's only
clear direction seems to be his will to come into power. I can't imagine that
their opposition to the war in Iraq will influence voters much in the next
elections because, now that British troops are already in Iraq, the question
will be how to stabilise the country.

I hope the Liberal Democrats will not replace the Tories as main opposition
party, but that will depend on whether the Conservatives will be able to
convince the voters of their policies.

Joanne Mgbeke, 23

Sales assistant

Voted Labour in 2001

I think Charles Kennedy is right to claim that the Liberal Democrats are ready
to form the next government.

They are the most viable alternative to the other two major parties. Tony Blair
has failed us and unless the Labour Party elects a new leader, I won't vote for
them again.

I don't like the Tories either, so I am not sure if I will go and vote at all in
the next elections, but if I do vote, it will be for the Liberal Democrats.

I would give them a one in three chance to be the next party in power and if
they don't quite make it, then at least they have very good prospects to replace
the Tories as the major opposition party.

Richard Gray, 78

Retired decorator

Voted Lib Dem in 2001

I don't think that they would have much chance in the next general election -
maybe the one after that. The way they are going they are becoming a much more
important party. I always vote for them because they would be more generous with
pensions than Labour if they got in.

Tony Blair has charisma but I don't like his policies. The only thing I worry
about voting Lib Dem is whether Charles Kennedy would be a strong enough leader
in power.

He is OK but does he really have the strength where it counts? You have to be
able to take the knocks as the main opposition. I would be happy to seethem take
over from the Conservatives in that role if they don't win the next election.

Nick Pearce, 36

Director, Institute of Public Policy Research

Voted Labour in 2001

The Lib Dems have done a lot to make the numbers stack up and their fiscal
policy is a lot tighter than it was, but they are still a party which in areas
like higher education has not faced up to the fact that students need to pay
more. They still have a lot of the sort of policies you have in opposition.

They can't supplant the Tories because the electoral arithmetic still puts them
a long way behind the Conservatives.

However, if Michael Howard moves to the right to protect his flank from UKIP he
will create space on the centre right for the Lib Dems to occupy.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              30 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 23, 2004

Refugee revolution

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 842 words


A TORY government would cap the number of immigrants and asylum seekers entering
Britain and tear up the international refugee convention, Michael Howard pledged
yesterday.

He also promised to negotiate a series of opt-outs to the European Convention on
Human Rights, which obliges Britain to shelter refugees.

In a bold speech that put the issue at the heart of the General Election battle,
the Tory leader rejected suggestions that he was anti-immigration. He pointed
out that he was the son of immigrants.

But he said it was clear that the movement of people into Britain could not
continue at its present 'uncontrolled' levels.

Under Labour, the immigration and asylum system had broken down and become
'chaotic, unfair and out of control', he said.

'Everything I have I owe to this country,' said Mr Howard. 'My family came here
with very little and made a life for themselves.

Immigration is good for Britain we are a stronger and more successful country
because of the immigrant communities that have settled here.

'But we cannot allow unlimited immigration into the United Kingdom
indefinitely.' Critics rounded on Mr Howard, accusing him of pandering to
supporters of the UK Independence Party and British National Party.

UKIP MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk accused him of stealing his party's ideas to prevent
defections.

But the Tory leader said he had expected to be accused of a 'lurch to the Right'
and being a 'traitor to my immigrant roots'.

In 1939, as Fascism spread across Europe, Mr Howard's father Bernat Hecht fled
Romania for Llanelli in South Wales. There, Mr Hecht, 23, met his wife-to-be
Hilda Kershion, 28. She was born in Wales but her family, too, had been refugees
from anti-semitism in Eastern Europe.

Mr Howard's paternal grandmother was killed in Auschwitz and his aunt survived
the gas chamber three times.

He was born Michael Hecht in 1941 but the family changed its name to Howard in
1948, after Mr Hecht received British citizenship.

Mr Howard said immigration had more than doubled since Labour took power and
only one in five failed asylum seekers was being removed.

He set out Tory plans for an annual quota on immigration set by Parliament and a
points-based system for assessing claims.

Both ideas are borrowed from Australia, which has succeeded in curbing illegal
immigration. Australia has set a migration quota of 120,000 for 2004, with a
strong focus on skilled people.

Asylum seekers are locked up in detention camps while their cases are examined,
a process that can last several years.

Under Mr Howard's plans, immigrants would be expected to learn English to help
them integrate.

He committed a Tory government to pulling out of the 'thoroughly outdated' 1951
UN Refugee Convention.

Under the convention, countries must give refuge to anyone with a 'well-founded
fear of persecution'.

The Tories say this is too loosely-worded. They also believe it is wrong that
the convention means anyone who claims asylum has the right to enter the system,
even if their claim is obviously bogus.

Mr Howard said a Tory government would give the UN 12 months' notice of its
intention to withdraw from the convention.

It would be replaced by British legislation which will allow cases to be settled
more quickly. 'Genuine refugees will be welcomed, but those who are not will be
swiftly removed,' he said.

Mr Howard also said a Tory government would lodge objections to parts of the
European Convention on Human Rights.

Rights under the ECHR are regularly relied on by asylum seekers in addition to
their rights under the refugee convention.

The ECHR allows asylum seekers to claim that they cannot be lawfully detained
during the period their claim is processed, and that they cannot be returned to
their country of origin because they will be at risk of having their human
rights infringed.

The Tories have already set up a commission to review the Human Rights Act,
which enshrined the European convention into British law for the first time.

Mr Howard has pledged to consider repealing the Act, but says a Tory government
would remain a member of the convention meaning that claimants would have to go
to Strasbourg to get justice.

But he made it clear for the first time yesterday that the Tories will also seek
to renegotiate relevant parts of the convention that affect asylum and
immigration.

Mr Howard said work permits would be strictly controlled and issued using a
points system to judge who was best qualified. He also promised to crack down on
illegal immigration by reintroducing embarkation controls and taking tough
action against companies who employ staff illegally.

Immigration Minister Des Browne said: 'Would Michael Howard be rejecting brain
surgeons or nurses that hospitals wanted to employ because the quota would be
exceeded?' Habib Rahman, chief executive of the Joint Council for Refugees, said
he was 'utterly shocked' that the Tories were prepared to pull out of the
Refugee Convention.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL HOWARD: ACCUSED LABOUR OF FAILURE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              31 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 23, 2004

Why Tories are RIGHT to fear the Lib Dems

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1218 words


TODAY, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, Charles Kennedy, will give his
keynote speech to his party's annual conference. It may be the last such
gathering before a General Election, and his troops are in good heart.

This past four days, they have heard one leading light after another tell them
that, in the words of their campaign chief Lord Razzall, the Tories are
'finished' as a serious political force for years, possibly decades, to come.

They are not talking, in the manner of the Liberals' former leader, David Steel,
of preparing for government: they are, however, preparing for opposition and
that, let there be no mistake, is increasingly a very real possibility.

For too long, the Lib Dems have been written off as the comic cuts of British
politics. Their conferences used to be about forming fantasy governments with
fantasy policies, such as unilateral disarmament, legalising cannabis or
liberalising the pornography laws.

Now, instead, the party is using its much larger group of MPs - 55 strong - to
develop serious policies, and has more credible spokesmen to advance them. Sir
Menzies Campbell, for example, may have been guilty of opportunism in advancing
his party's foreign policy, but he is reasonable, eloquent and appears entirely
trustworthy.

There is a widespread view, also, that the party's Treasury spokesman, Vincent
Cable, a former oil industry economist, makes a far better job of challenging
Gordon Brown than does the notional shadow Chancellor, Oliver Letwin. But then
Mr Cable, unlike Mr Letwin, can advance his high-tax policies with complete
conviction.

Nor should we forget the considerable feat of the resurrection of Charles
Kennedy, the party's genial and, until recently, much troubled leader.

At his party's spring conference, he sweated profusely while delivering his
speech, and looked ill.

Now, we are told, he has given up drink, started a fitness programme, and is
buoyed by his great popularity both in his own party and in the country.

At a time when Tony Blair is widely loathed and considered dishonest, and
Michael Howard seems to find it difficult to connect with the British public, Mr
Kennedy has assumed the mantle of the nation's most admired political leader.

Many, though, will say that we or rather the Lib Dems - have been here before.
Before every election they forecast a breakthrough; and although they continue
to pick up parliamentary seats, that definitive move never comes.

But their replacing the Tories as the second largest party in the Commons and
the official opposition is, however, more conceivable now than it has ever been.
The Tories, having replaced their own leader a year ago in the hope of
salvation, have once again managed to find an abyss to peer into. SO IT is not
beyond possibility that they could come fourth in the Hartlepool by-election, a
week today, behind the two main parties and the reinvigorated UKIP. Whether or
not the Lib Dems win that contest, they are marching on the Tories.

The Lib Dems are also breathing down Labour's necks in many urban seats, not
merely in London, but in the heartland of the industrial north. This is largely
because of traditional Labour voters' dissatisfaction with Mr Blair, notably
because of his Iraq policy.

They are also, however, poised to take a swathe of seats from the already
depleted Tories. This is because UKIP is threatening to run candidates against
many sitting Tory MPs who refuse to oppose the EU.

UKIP is unlikely to win a seat itself, but by splitting the Tory vote could let
the Lib Dems in through the back door all over the South of England and in rural
areas. That is why we need to take seriously the policies being discussed at
Bournemouth this week. We need to consider just what sort of a party the Lib
Dems really are, and what it would mean for our country if they make their
'breakthrough'.

And the unvarnished truth is that in many respects - and despite their skilful
efforts at camouflage - they are far to the left of Labour. Mr Cable wants a top
tax rate of 50 per cent on those earning over Pounds 100,000 a year, to pay for
bigger NHS investment and the abolition of tuition fees.

His commitment to tax and spend is far more unashamed than Gordon Brown's and,
with about 100 spending pledges made by the Lib Dems in the past couple of
years, it will need to be.

In an increasingly dangerous world, it should also be noted that they are (and
in this way they are consistent with the Nonconformist tradition of the old
Liberals, with whom they otherwise have little in common) increasingly a
pacifist party.

In international affairs they are almost uncritically pro-European, though the
rhetoric on that changes to suit the mood of the audience.

They make a virtue, too, of their commitment to decentralisation, but this, in
fact, means that they can campaign on one policy in one constituency, and on the
complete opposite in another.

Indeed, the publication by a Lib Dem MP of a document called the 'Orange Book',
a discussion document of possible policies, shows the party is now quite proud
of the fact that it can face both ways at once.

For example, it is toying with the idea of making the public services more
market-oriented. It will test the water on this: if the public like the idea, it
will talk it up. If they don't, then the public services will remain monolithic.

Although the party has taken a leaf out of Labour's book, and has sought to
sound less radical, it still manages to come up with absurdities. Its proposal
to improve environmental conditions in cities by taxing 4x4 vehicles there off
the roads is likely to prove unworkable.

Also, its Home Affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, talked of setting up community
tribunals to replace magistrates in apportioning the punishment for certain
offenders.

He did not specify whether this would allow Sharia-style punishments in
predominantly Muslim areas, or take into account the scope for lawyers to have a
field day with the inevitable inconsistencies of such courts. WHAT if there is a
Lib Dem surge in the election? If the Tories slip into third place, it would
mean that the only real differences between the two front benches in the Commons
on matters like taxation, Europe, immigration, the public services and law and
order would be of degree rather than of principle.

What this could mean, in the next few months, is that Britain has a
leftof-centre Government, and an even further left-of-centre opposition.

It may be that the British public feel that conservatism - or, indeed,
old-fashioned liberalism, with its admiration of free trade, enterprise and the
small state - has had its day. In which case, supporting the Lib Dems to the
point where two centre-left parties argue about the future of Britain is
certainly the way to make that view clear.

However, no one should doubt that a bright future for the Lib Dems means
marginalising even more the conservative opinions that are still held by many
millions of people, and which are the natural counterweight to the ruling
orthodoxy.

At a time when elective dictatorship already seems to be taking hold, that would
not advance what most of us thought we understood by liberalism - or, indeed, by
democracy.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              32 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

Howard pledges huge shake-up to cut immigration

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 584 words

THE most radical overhaul of British immigration policy for a generation was
proposed yesterday by Michael Howard, the Conservative Party leader.

He said a Tory government would place an annual limit on immigrant numbers and
withdraw from the 1951 UN Convention on the Status of Refugees, which Mr Howard
said no longer fulfilled its intended purpose.

The proposals would represent the most extensive recasting of immigration laws
since the 1971 Immigration Act effectively ended primary settlement other than
for family reunion.

Each year, Parliament would set a maximum number of immigrants by taking into
account Britain's economic needs, the demands of family reunion and the
country's obligation to give refuge to those fleeing persecution.

Mr Howard proposed a points-based system, modelled on an Australian scheme.

The Conservatives would also reverse the assumption that foreigners who come to
work in Britain can automatically obtain long-term settlement after four years.

Mr Howard believes that a points-based system would be a fairer and more
effective way to manage immigration.

Tory strategists also believe that immigration is a key issue for many voters
who deserted the party for the UK Independence Party in the European elections
in June and whom the Conservatives must win back before the next general
election.

Mr Howard, whose parents were immigrants from eastern Europe, said: "Everything
I have I owe to this country. My family came here with very little and made a
life for themselves. I want others to benefit from the opportunities I had.

"Immigration is good for Britain. We are a stronger and more successful country
because of the immigrant communities that have settled here.

"But we cannot continue to allow unlimited immigration into the United Kingdom
indefinitely. Immigration needs to be controlled and it needs to be fair."

The pledge to withdraw from the UN refugee convention is controversial but
reflects a growing view that it has been abused by criminal gangs who use asylum
to bypass immigration controls.

Under the convention, every application for asylum must be considered and the
claimant allowed into the country while the legal procedures take place. A
country wishing to withdraw must give 12 months' notice of its intention to the
UN.

Mr Howard said a Conservative government would replace its obligations under the
convention with British laws, allowing asylum cases to be decided more swiftly.
Genuine refugees would continue to be welcomed, but others would be swiftly
removed.

Britain would also enter a reserve under the European Convention on Human
Rights, which forbids deportation to countries where people are at risk of
torture.

Last year, David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said he saw no "obvious upper
limit" to sustainable immigration. But Mr Howard said: "While migration in both
directions is part of a competitive and dynamic modern economy, immigration
cannot continue at its present, uncontrolled levels.

"Britain has reached a turning point. As a country we need a totally new
approach to immigration and asylum."

Net immigration is about 250,000 a year. For the first time, Britain is adding
to its population by immigration.

Government figures predict that the population will increase by 5.6 million over
the next 30 years and 85 per cent of this rise will be due to immigration.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the broadcaster and UKIP Euro-MP, accused Mr Howard of
"lifting" a speech he made a few weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              33 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 23, 2004

HOWARD: IMMIGRATION IS OUT OF CONTROL AND WE'LL PUT LIMITS ON IT

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 666 words


TORY leader Michael Howard yesterday pledged to withdraw Britain from an
"outdated" international convention on refugees in a crackdown on Britain's
"chaotic" asylum and immigration system.

Spelling out a raft of tough new measures, Mr Howard said he would pull out of
the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention which obliges countries to shelter
people who fear persecution in their homeland.

He also promised an annual cap on immigrant numbers, strict controls on work
permits and new checks on people leaving the country to help identify those
outstaying their visas.

Speaking in London yesterday, he declared: "We have lost control of our asylum
and immigration system.

At a time when Britain faces an unprecedented terrorist threat, we appear to
have little idea who is coming into or leaving our country.

"People know that Britain's immigration and asylum system has broken down. They
know that it is chaotic, unfair and out of control."

He made clear he would not apologise for discussing the issue, insisting:
"Immigration and asylum are a cause for concern across the world and right
across Britain. People want politicians to be honest about the problem and they
want clear, fair and practical action to tackle it."

He drew on a Governmentcommissioned report which warned in July that the scale
and speed of migration in some areas was too great for local people and services
to cope with.

That report, he said, also stated that immigration "creates tensions" which were
exacerbated if poor host communities saw newcomers as rivals for scarce
resources and services.

Mr Howard said that net immigration to Britain had averaged 158,000 people a
year for the past five years, and the Government itself predicted that 85 per
cent of an expected 5.6million increase in the population over the next 30 years
would be down to immigration.

"David Blunkett may believe there is 'no obvious upper limit to legal
immigration'. I do not agree, " he said. "While migration in both directions is
part of a competitive and dynamic modern economy, immigration to Britain cannot
continue at its present, uncontrolled levels. Britain has reached a turning
point.

"We need a system that helps genuine refugees and gives priority to those who
want to come to Britain, work hard and make a positive contribution." Referring
to his family roots in Romania, Mr Howard added:

"Everything I have I owe to this country. But we cannot continue to allow
unlimited immigration indefinitely. Immigration needs to be controlled and it
needs to be fair."

Mr Howard's proposal for Britain to withdraw from the UN Convention was slammed
by refugee groups, but he said: "It is now thoroughly outdated. It was agreed
during the Cold War when a relatively few number of people were able to escape
from behind the Iron Curtain. Its authors could not have imagined that it would
come to be exploited by tens of thousands of people every year. We will replace
it with British legislation which will allow cases to be decided more swiftly.
Genuine refugees will be welcomed, but those who are not will be swiftly
removed."

As the first step among measures to "get a grip" on immigration, Mr Howard would
reintroduce "embarkation" controls when people left the UK to identify those who
outstayed work permits or student visas.

He admitted that while in government he had been wrong to lift the checks on
those leaving for EU countries. He also promised tougher action against
companies employing people illegally while a Tory government would introduce an
Australian-style annual limit on immigration with the number set by
Parliament.The Tories would take control over the "shambles" of the work permit
system, as well as expecting immigrants to learn English.

UKip MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk accused Mr Howard of stealing his ideas while
Immigration Minister Des Browne said Labour believed businesses and services
should decide how many workers they needed from abroad.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              34 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

HOWARD FACES DUAL ATTACK OVER IMMIGRATION LIMITS

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR Michael Howard at Westminster
yesterday Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 506 words


MEMBERS OF the United Kingdom Independence Party and leaders of migrants' groups
attacked Michael Howard, the Conservative Party leader, yesterday over his
proposals to slash immigration to Britain.

Mr Howard has proposed putting an annual limit on the numbers of immigrants
allowed into Britain and has said that the Conservatives would pull Britain out
of an international convention on refugees.

The Tory leader said: "Britain has reached a turning point. As a country we need
a totally new approach to immigration and asylum."

Robert Kilroy-Silk, of UKIP, accused Mr Howard of stealing UKIP's clothes on
immigration in an attempt to staunch the haemorrhage of Tory support to the
anti-European party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk told BBC radio: "I made a policy announcement two weeks ago,
saying we would limit immigration to 100,000 and that we would have a points
system, where people would be selected on the basis of their skills, their
aptitude and ability to integrate into British society and make a contribution
to it. He is saying virtually the same thing. He is plagiarising it."

A Conservative spokesman denied the claim of plagiarism, saying: "We have been
working for months on this. If UKIP also study the Australian plans, they are
likely to be the same, but we haven't stolen their clothes."

However, Liam Fox, the joint chairman of the party, confirmed he had told a
recent meeting of the Bow Group, a right-of-centre think-tank, that the
Conservatives had to take action to counter a drift of voters to the UKIP.

Mr Howard denied his proposals outlined in a speech to an invited audience in
London was a "lurch to the right". Net immigration had averaged 158,000 a year
for the past five years, he said, requiring a million more homes than the
Government was planning for. "Britain's immigration controls are chaotic, and
out of control," he said.

The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants said it was stunned by Mr
Howard's proposal to pull out of the 1951 UN convention on refugees.

Habib Rahman, the chief executive, said: "We are utterly shocked to hear that
the Conservative Party seems prepared to ditch Britain's long-standing
humanitarian commitment to the convention.

"The Conservative Party continues to focus on abuse of the asylum system at the
expense of stressing the human rights protection it affords.

"We believe that such a focus helps to create an unwarranted fear of immigration
in some sections of the UK population and does not create a climate of
acceptance towards people who arrive here either as genuine refugees or people
who have a desire to work and contribute to our economy."

Peter Kessler, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees,
attacked Mr Howard's proposals as "preposterous".

He said: "It will not lessen the number of asylum-seekers and refugees coming
and fleeing their countries."

The number of refugees seeking asylum in the rich industrialised nations was at
its lowest for 17 years, Mr Kessler said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              35 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

HAVEN'T WE HEARD THAT TORY BEFORE?;
 HOWARD RIPS OFF KILROY SPEECH

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


MICHAEL Howard's flagship speech on immigration yesterday was a rip-off of one
given by Ukip's Robert Kilroy Silk two weeks ago.

The Tory leader was so desperate to prove his Eurosceptic credentials that he
stole major policy ideas from the former chat host turned MEP.

Mr Howard used phrases and language almost identical to those in a speech by
Kilroy Silk to the UK Independence party's annual dinner. Among ideas he stole
was a 100,000 a year limit on immigrants.

He also nicked the proposal to copy the Australian points system, where
immigrants are given preference according to how much they will contribute to
the country.

And he even pinched Kilroy Silk's plan to pull out of the UN Convention on Human
Rights. Mr Kilroy Silk said: "He is saying virtually the same thing. He is
plagiarising it. He is parroting virtually what I said."

Home Office Minister Des Browne said Mr Howard's desperation was a sign of the
Tories' lurch to the right. "They would rather run scare stories on asylum and
immigration than campaign on health and education."

Refugee Council chief Maeve Sherlock said it did not contribute constructively
to the debate. Left- wing thinktank the Institute for Public Policy Research
said Howard was "courting Ukip and BNP votes".

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis denied they were trying to steal Ukip
policies. But a comparison of the speeches tells a different story.

-BRITAIN'S biggest bogus marriage racket was smashed by police with six people
arrested in raids across London. Around 300 suspect weddings are thought to have
been conducted in the pounds 3million scam.

MICHAEL HOWARD

David Blunkett has said that he sees 'no obvious upper limit' to legal
immigrationI have lost count of the times I have been told by British people
from ethnic community backgrounds that firm immigration controls are good for
race relations."Firm but fair immigration controls are essential for good race
relations.The majority of immigrants settle in London and the South East where
pressures on housing are most pronounced."Hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants are living in Britain. Some arrive undetected.Immigration officials
don't check people as they come into and out of the country.We will introduce a
points-based system on the Australian model.

ROBERT KILROY SILK

David Blunkett has already given the game away when he made the startling
statement on Newsnight recently that he saw 'no upper limit' to
immigration.Polls show that 80 per cent of the people - including 52 per cent of
the ethnic minorities - want to see tougher immigration controls. We believe
fair and effective control of immigration is not only what the people of Britain
want but that it would also be good for race relations.Seventy per cent of new
settlers stay in the South East of England. That will put enormous strains on
housing."Nobody knows how many illegal immigrants stayed undetected.Over one
million visas issued every year to students and visitors whom no one checks in
and out."We shall follow the Australian system which admits immigrants on the
basis of points.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              36 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

HOWARD USES KILROY SPEECH

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 78 words


MICHAEL Howard's flagship speech on immigration yesterday was a rip-off of one
given by UK Independence party's Robert Kilroy Silk two weeks ago.

The Tory leader was so desperate to prove his Eurosceptic credentials that he
stole major policy ideas from the former chat host turned MEP.

Mr Howard used language almost identical to those in Kilroy's speech to the
UKIP's annual dinner.

Among ideas he stole was a 100,000 a year limit on immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              37 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: HOWARD SHAME

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 181 words


MICHAEL Howard took the Tories into the gutter yesterday.

And he couldn't even manage it without help from UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk.

The Conservative leader is so desperate that he played the racist card. He
attacked immigrants, even though his own parents came to this country looking
for work.

Mr Howard hopes to entice back Tory

voters tempted by UKIP's cynical attempts

to woo voters panicked over immigration.

But his speech was a copy of one Mr Kilroy-Silk made a few weeks ago. The same
ideas, even the same language.

There is no denying that immigration is an issue, though not the frightening
problem made out by Mr Howard.

It must be controlled, but we need to bring in new people to help run the health
service, schools and hi-tech industries and do many of the jobs that Britons
won't.

Making immigrants into bogeys to scare decent people in a desperate attempt to
win their votes is the lowest and most despicable act of a politician.

That is where Michael Howard has now

descended. With a script provided by Robert

Kilroy-Silk.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              38 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: HOWARD SHAME

SECTION: Ulster Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 153 words


MICHAEL Howard took the Tories into the gutter yesterday.

And he couldn't even manage it without help from UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk.

The Conservative leader is so desperate that he played the racist card. He
attacked immigrants, even though his own parents came to this country looking
for work.

Mr Howard hopes to entice back Tory

voters tempted by UKIP's cynical attempts

to woo voters panicked over immigration.

But his speech was a copy of one Mr Kilroy-Silk made a few weeks ago. The same
ideas, even the same language.

There is no denying that immigration is an issue, though not the frightening
problem made out by Mr Howard.

Making immigrants into bogeys to scare decent people in a desperate attempt to
win their votes is the lowest and most despicable act of a politician.

That is where Michael Howard has now

descended. With a script provided by Robert

Kilroy-Silk.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              39 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 23, 2004, Thursday

The fountains of youth

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: Features; Times2; 20

LENGTH: 464 words


A mediterranean diet can boost your lifespan, studies show. T2 offers more hints
for long life:

Be royal: And go on and on, like a Duracell Bunny. Scientists suspect that, at a
genetic level, the British Royal expects to be executed, assassinated or killed
in a cavalry charge. Royal DNA has lost the ability to shut down otherwise,
hence the longevity of recent generations.

Never go on holiday with Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, Inspector Clouseau,
Jessica Fletcher or Scooby-Doo and the Gang: Killers, all of them. When will the
world see?

Attend a Liberal Democrat Party conference: In tests, laboratory rats were
placed in the front row of the Bournemouth International Centre and kept awake
for the entire five-day duration of the Liberal Democrat conference. All showed
symptoms consistent with a far longer period of sleep deprivation. It has been
proved that, for anyone in front of a Liberal Democrat speaker, time will appear
to slow by about a third. If conference is attended once a year for 50 years,
the average lifespan will feel longer by 500 days. (Note: This procedure is
risky. Should Lembit Opik be performing a musical routine, special precautions
apply.) Attend a Conservative or Labour Party conference: 300 days. See above.

Attend a UKIP conference: Actually, don't.

If crossing the Atlantic on a stricken cruise liner, never befriend Kate
Winslet: She'll tip you into the sea without even checking that you're dead.

Take pet food nutritional supplements: According to the TV ads for one leading
brand, their product can "help your pet live up to 15 per cent longer". But why
should dogs have all the fun? Why can't it work for you? Available in rabbit and
offal flavours. Order today.

Get neutered: Also works for dogs. Worth thinking about.

Get bitten by a vampire: Never grow old, never die. Party all night, sleep all
day. Or, wear very high SPF sunblock.

If attending an event at London Fashion Week, never take pens, scissors or
keys:The temptation to open the wrists can be overwhelming.

Eat your own snot: No, really. This one was in the paper back in April.
According to an Austrian doctor, it can help to boost the immune system. It can
also help to pass the time at a Lib Dem conference.

He who drinks from the Cup of Christ shall enjoy eternal life: Or at least, so
says a creepy Nazi in an Indiana Jones film. Unfortunately for us, said cup is
now buried in a desert somewhere near Israel, under the rubble of an ancient and
ornately carved cave. Indiana Jones pulled it down. And he's supposed to be an
archaeologist.

Smoke if you drink, drink if you smoke: Smoking thickens the arteries, alcohol
thins the blood. Do both and end up back where you started.

Only the good die young: So be bad.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 22, 2004, Wednesday

Tories want to renegotiate EU laws

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 302 words

MICHAEL Howard's Conservatives signalled a new hard-line approach to Europe last
night when John Redwood pledged that a Tory government would try to
"renegotiate" any EU laws that the party judges to be "excessive".

Mr Redwood, who was promoted to the shadow cabinet as deregulation spokesman in
Mr Howard's recent reshuffle, told The Daily Telegraph the Tories were "ruling
nothing out" as they considered a list of changes they want to the rules
governing British membership of the EU.

In a hardening of Tory rhetoric, seen as a response to the threat to its vote
from the anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), Mr Redwood said even
some of the rules governing the European single market might have to be
renegotiated under a Conservative government.

"We want to include any regulations which are excessive or oppressive," he said.
"While I don't see my brief as being to tear up the rules on the single market
there may be some single market regulations that we have to look at."

The remarks suggest that Mr Howard has sanctioned a more robust Eurosceptic line
for the Tories as they head towards a general election in which UKIP threatens
to eat into its core vote.

Mr Redwood said the content of the package would not be finalised until next
year but made clear it would be in place for inclusion in a Tory election
manifesto.

Labour ministers said Mr Redwood's approach was unworkable. Before an EU country
can secure such changes the other 24 member states need to agree.

Some Tory frontbenchers said privately that Mr Redwood's stridently Eurosceptic
remarks could reopen party divisions. "It is not going to prove popular on the
pro-European Left of the party," said one. "We risk returning to the issues that
helped lose us the 2001 election if we go on too much about Europe."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              41 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 22, 2004, Wednesday

Redwood puts Europe back on the Tory agenda

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 23

LENGTH: 501 words

Since Michael Howard recalled him to the shadow cabinet two weeks ago, John
Redwood has wasted no time in setting the Euro-sceptic cat among the pigeons of
the Financial Times. Promising an open-ended "renegotiation" of Britain's terms
of membership, including the single market, he hopes for an EU closer to "what
we originally joined". Though there is a studied vagueness about Mr Redwood's
interview, his forthcoming book on Conservative policy will make his
root-and-branch approach to Europe clear enough. Those who have supported the UK
Independence Party will note the vehemence with which Mr Redwood repudiates the
steps towards ever-closer union taken by governments in which he served, and
from which he eventually resigned. Mr Howard's evident confidence in Mr Redwood
ought to reassure UKIP voters that the Tories are serious about rolling back
European federalism.

Mr Redwood is not every Conservative's cup of tea. Modernisers are dismayed by
the tone, Europhiles by the substance of his rhetoric. Some fear for the
delicate truce between Mr Howard and Kenneth Clarke, which has bought the leader
a respite from in-fighting. But Mr Redwood has a job to do: cutting red tape
across the board. One target has to be Europe, because nearly half of our
regulations originate there. A monstrosity such as the pharmaceuticals directive
acts as a bureaucratic virus, spreading throughout the European body politic and
stifling medical research. If renegotiation is the price of self-government,
there may be no alternative.

Before rhetoric can be translated into policy, Mr Redwood has some work to do.
He must persuade the public that unpicking EU treaties is practical politics,
given that changes require unanimity among the 25 member states. Most people
would like control over, say, fisheries repatriated, but are wary of threatening
withdrawal, lest the bluff be called. Independence is one thing, isolation
another.

Mr Redwood's return to the fray is a signal that the Conservatives intend to
reopen Europe as an election issue. Tony Blair has had some success in closing
it down, by indefinitely postponing a decision on the euro and promising a
referendum on the constitution. For many people, it was tempting to let the
Prime Minister push Europe to the periphery of their field of vision. But that
is not an option for the Tories, whose divisions on the subject have been so
traumatic mainly because they instinctively sense its overriding significance.
Mr Howard is right to force the issue back on to the national agenda before the
election. If he means what he says about renegotiation, he will need an explicit
mandate.

By using Mr Redwood rather as Margaret Thatcher used Norman Tebbit, Mr Howard
can try to woo back some lost Tory voters, while himself sounding a more
moderate note. There is a risk attached, however. Mr Redwood must not interpret
his roving brief as carte blanche to rewrite the manifesto, or Mr Howard will
have a shadow cabinet revolt on his hands.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              42 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 22, 2004, Wednesday

You can't ban beliefs

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 23

LENGTH: 122 words

SIR - As a teacher of German, I have both studied and taught the rise of the
Right. Sunday's elections in Germany were a wake-up call for the entire
political establishment (report, Sept 20).

The results from Brandenburg and Saxony should come as no surprise. Since the
Second World War, the established parties have carved up power between them. By
their failure to offer a clear choice, the traditional parties have caused
increasing numbers of people to cast a protest vote.

The rise of UKIP in the European elections showed that there is a place for a
new moderate alternative on the Right. Only when a similar party emerges in
Germany will protest voters begin to return to the mainstream.

Barney Smith

Dover, Kent

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              43 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 22, 2004

Howard to propose annual quota for immigration and asylum

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words


Michael Howard will today try to capitalise on public disquiet over the rise in
immigration by proposing an annual quota for the number of migrants and asylum
seekers allowed into Britain.

The Conservative leader will also set out plans for an Australian-style
points-based system for deciding which applicants will be entitled to enter the
country, with a strong bias towards skilled, qualified professionals with
English language competency.

A recent commission on immigration set up by the Tories had proposed that only
those capable of earning more than £26,000 a year be admitted.

Conservative sources insisted that the points system would not act as a backdoor
way of keeping out all unskilled workers, or the rural poor seeking asylum.

Mr Howard will also confirm that he will abolish the presumption that anyone
living in Britain on a work permit for more than four years will be entitled to
stay permanently.

He is also likely to restrict the right of children to sponsor their parents
entering the country, saying the parents may only enter if they have more
children living in Britain than any other country.

The Conservative chairman, Liam Fox, was recently disclosed as saying that a
strong anti-immigration line was the best way of regaining supporters who have
defected to the UK Independence party.

Mr Howard will say that "everything I have I owe to this country. My family came
here with very little and made a life for themselves. I want others to benefit
from the opportunities I had. Immigration is good for Britain."

But he will insist: "We cannot allow unlimited immigration indefinitely.
Immigration needs to be controlled and it needs to be fair."

Mr Howard will not say at what level the annual limit should be set, but he will
point out that Labour has almost quadrupled the number of work permits issued
each year, from 40,000 to 175,000. He will argue that the number of asylum
applications has fallen largely because many are now making backdoor
applications as migrants.

Mr Howard said parliament would set the quota annually based on an assessment of
Britain's economic needs, the demands of family reunion and the obligation to
give refuge to those fleeing persecution.

One difficulty with a fixed quota is that the ceiling may need to broken if
there is a sudden outbreak of instability in a country, leading to a rush of
asylum applications.

Labour has repeatedly refused to set limits on the number of people coming into
Britain because of concerns about housing shortages and hard-pressed public
services.

The industry secretary, Patricia Hewitt, has pointed out that there are around
250,000 job vacancies in Britain and what concerned people were illegal
immigration and abuses of the asylum system, not people coming to work legally
and contribute.

A total of 139,675 people settled in Britain in 2003, compared with 59,000 when
Labour came to power in 1997. Almost half were given settlement for family
reasons.

The shadow home secretary, David Davis, has accused Labour of "losing their
grip" on the immigration system, saying that between 1994 and 1997 inward
migration rose by 4%, while between 1997 and 2002, the numbers rose by 57.3%.

Des Browne, Labour's minister for citizenship, immigration and nationality,
said: "I hope whatever Michael Howard has to say on asylum and immigration will
be better than he managed when he was home secretary. After four years in the
job it took 20 months just for an initial decision for an asylum seeker, there
was a backlog of 50,000, just 3,000 people a year were removed and he failed to
get agreement to go ahead with ID cards."


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 22, 2004

Public supports union fight with Blair: Guardian ICM poll Survey shows voters
want PM taken to task over Iraq - but back his plans for income tax

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 785 words


There is overwhelming public support for expected clashes between the unions and
Tony Blair over Iraq and the future of the railways at next week's Labour
conference, according to the findings of this month's Guardian/ICM opinion poll.

But the survey shows that the public, including Labour voters, back Mr Blair's
declared intention to go into next year's general election with a manifesto
pledge not to increase income tax. Indeed, one in three Labour voters wants him
to go further and promise to cut taxes.

The ICM monthly voting intention figures shows Labour maintaining its 36% share
of the vote and the Tories dipping one point to 32% at the end of a week in
which "direct action" protests by pro-hunting supporters and Fathers4justice
threatened to destabilise Labour's position. The Lib Dems maintained their 22%
poll rating, with Ukip on 3% and the Greens on 2%.

The poll also shows that Charles Kennedy remains the only popular leader of the
three main parties with a positive rating of plus 25 points with 50% of all
voters satisfied and only 25% dissatisfied.

Mr Kennedy's figures are almost exactly the same as a year ago, proving he has
done nothing to put off potential Lib Dem voters.

But the figures for Mr Blair and Michael Howard tell a different story. Mr
Blair's net personal rating stands at minus 15 points - 39% of voters say he is
doing a good job, while 54% disagree. Such apparently dismal figures actually
represent a comeback for the prime minister. In May, his rating stood at minus
24, while last September it touched bottom at minus 29 in the aftermath of the
Hutton hearings.

But Mr Blair can contemplate next week's conference with the knowledge he
remains a favourite among Labour's remaining voters, 73% of whom are happy with
his the job he is doing.

The Tory leader, Michael Howard, cannot boast quite such support among
Conservative voters, who have grown a little more disenchanted over the summer.
In July, 70% of Tory voters were willing to give Mr Howard their backing but
that has slipped to 62% this month.

The figure for Tories unhappy with his performance - 24% - is slightly higher
than that for Labour voters disenchanted with Mr Blair, which stands at 22%.

Mr Howard's overall rating at minus 9 points among all voters is slightly better
than the prime minister's, though it hardly reflects the position of an
opposition leader preparing to storm Downing Street within eight months.

Both party leaders face difficult conference debates in the next fortnight,
particularly over tax.

The ICM results show the split in the Tory leadership over tax cuts is reflected
among Conservative voters who split evenly between pegging income tax and
promising cuts. The Lib Dems form the party most out of line with their voters,
with limited tax rises attracting the backing of only 26% of supporters.

The Labour leadership, however, faces losing the argument in Brighton over the
future of the railways and Iraq. Sixty-six percent of all voters, rising to 72%
of Labour voters, agree with the unions that renationalisation should be back in
the election manifesto as well as a promise to set a date for the withdrawal of
troops from Iraq - both potential conference flashpoints.

New data from ICM this month also lays to rest the idea that a new gender gap is
opening up between parties.

In 1992, Labour trailed the Conservatives among women voters by 11 points while
they were only four points behind among male voters. Labour election strategists
coined this the "gender gap" and began to target women voters.

By the time of the landslide 1997 general election win, Labour had established a
19-point lead over the Tories among males and an eight-point lead among women.

The latest ICM poll averages for 2004 show that gap has closed. Labour is only
two points ahead now among men, with 35% saying they will vote Labour, and two
points ahead among women, with 36% saying they will vote Labour.

If anything since 1997 the fall in support for Labour has been more spectacular
among men than women - down from 47% to 35% for men, and from 43% to 36% for
women.

But ICM's long-term data shows that Labour continues to attract the support of
the young, with the party most popular on the 2004 average poll figures among
the 18-24 age group, where it leads the Tories by 40% to 25%.

Across the ages, the Conservatives enjoy a lead over Labour only among the
over-65s, simply because their voters are getting older.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,005 adults by phone between September 17
and 19. Interviews were carried out across the country, with the results
weighted to the profile of all adults


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 22, 2004

Strategists try to calm surge of confidence: Courting hubris is not Charles
Kennedy's style, delegates told

BYLINE: Michael White,. Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 729 words


Liberal Democrat strategists tried yesterday to temper the excessive euphoria of
party activists certain that they are on the edge of a decisive breakthrough at
the coming general election.

Overconfidence is not Charles Kennedy's style, the Bournemouth conference was
told, as the party cleared potentially unhelpful policies from the election
decks.

The third day of what Mr Kennedy expects will be the last pre-election
conference saw a clutch of campaign policies endorsed, including this month's
10-point "pre-election manifesto" draft published under the slogan "Freedom,
Fairness, Trust".

In one significant shift to make them more electable the Lib Dems, for 50 years
the most consistently ardent pro-Euro pean party, shifted ground to accommodate
the Euro-wary public mood.

Chris Davies, leader of their 12 MEPs - the same number as Ukip since its
success in the June 10 elections - insisted that his party was among the
"severest critics"of EU failures.

"We don't regard the common agricultural policy as acceptable, even with the new
reforms.

"We don't accept that public money can be allowed to pass unaccounted for, even
though the problem lies not with the (Brussels) commission, but with the member
states," Mr Davies told the delegates.

In that vein he challenged Tony Blair to explain why "it is pressing so hard for
Romania, still a nest of corruption", to be allowed into the EU in 2007 and
warned other applicant states - including Ukraine and Turkey - that they too
must each get their house in order.

Another note of realism to temper idealism on the conference podium came from
Lord Tim Razzell.

The veteran London Lib Dem activist, who chairs the party's campaigns team, used
his keynote speech to repudiate David Steel's famous con ference peroration
before the 1983 election, which Margaret Thatcher won by a landslide.

"I am not going to make the mistake of a former Liberal party leader 20 years
ago and tell you to go back to your constituencies and prepare for government.

"That is not Charles Kennedy's style and not my style. Hubris would not become
us," he said.

But Lord Razzell borrowed John Prescott's remark that the "tectonic plates" of
politics were shifting against both the Tories and Labour, to give the Lib Dems
a unique opening.

"The Conservative party is finished as a serious challenger for government in
all our adult lifetimes," he predicted. He added: "There will come a moment when
the British public finally loses faith in this Labour government.

"And when that happens the next government of this country will not be a
Conservative government, it will be a Liberal Democrat government, and Charles
Kennedy will be prime minister.

"That is our challenge, that is our task," Lord Razzell said.

Lib Dem realists faced familiar challenges from activists who feared they were
in danger of a sell-out, and Mr Kennedy was again forced to state that "under no
circumstances" would he form a coalition to "prop up" Labour if there was a hung
parliament.

Lib Dems would fight as an independent party, said Mr Kennedy. A succession of
speakers from the floor during the debate on acceptance of the pre-election
manifesto stressed the need for the party to cherish its values and to remember
the fairness agenda - and the poorest fifth of the electorate who still lived in
poverty "after seven years of a Labour government."

There was sniping at the new Orange Book of essays - one delegate pronounced it
a bit of a lemon.

Sir David Williams, formerly Lord Razzell's council leader in Richmond, warned
the conference of the need to "remain disciplined" as the party gained successes
- including an outside shot at taking Labour-held Hartlepool next Thursday.

The party's defence spokesman, Paul Keetch, declared: "The proudest moment of my
political life was when every single Lib Dem MP voted together against the war
on Iraq."

And he promised that "under the Lib Dems" the British army would "no longer be
at the beck and call of George W Bush".

After Mr Keetch had intro duced a contingent of retired Gurkhas to the
conference - the party wants them to have British citizenship, and they were
duly applauded - the delegates were at daggers drawn on the matter of protecting
uneconomic phone boxes, especially in rural areas.

Leader comment, page 27


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 22, 2004, Wednesday

The motivation of UKIP voters

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 202 words


From Mr Idris Francis

Sir, It seems that Liam Fox and the Conservative Party still do not understand
the motivation of UK Independence Party voters (report, September 17).

As a former Conservative voter but UKIP member, activist and voter for more than
eight years, a veteran of several hundred political meetings and tens of
thousands of EU-related e-mails and articles, I can assure Mr Fox that our "No 1
issue" is not "dislike (of) foreigners" but regaining the democratic
self-government which his party has systematically and dishonestly given away
over the last 35 years.

I believe that most UKIP voters will be only too delighted to vote Conservative
again, or for the first time in their lives, if the Conservatives give an
unequivocal manifesto pledge to take Britain out of the European Union.

Rather than a new Conservative government committed to staying in the EU, I
would prefer the party to fail -again -and then implode, so that from the
wreckage may emerge new alliances that will secure Britain's freedom and
independence.

Yours sincerely, IDRIS FRANCIS, Sunny Bank, Church Lane, West Meon, Petersfield,
Hampshire GU32 1LD.

irfrancis@onetel.com

September 17.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 21, 2004

Aitken eyes Commons comeback

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 357 words


The disgraced former Tory minister, Jonathan Aitken, has raised the prospect of
attempting to regain his old seat of South Thanet at the next general election -
this time on behalf of the the UK Independence Party.

Mr Aitken, jailed for 18 months for perjury after misleading the courts in 1999
over a Guardian story, has previously said he was planning to endorse Ukip, but
has never before floated the idea of resurrecting his political career in the
Commons by representing the anti-EU party.

He had been interested in standing for his old seat on behalf of the
Conservatives, but Michael Howard said he would not allow Mr Aitken to represent
the Tories again.

In an interview with the Kent Messenger, Mr Aitken said he was pondering
standing for Ukip but needed more time to study the party before finally
deciding whether to put his name forward after its annual conference this month.

Ukip itself will be ambivalent about Mr Aitken since it is not keen to become a
retiring home for defeated Conservative MPs, not to mention those forced to
resign for reasons of sleaze.

Mr Aitken said: "There is a temptation there, an interest there, so I am
genuinely pondering it in a hesitant way.

"We know from the very good vote that Ukip got in Thanet generally and in Kent
that the Ukip candidate will get a very respectable vote. There is bound to be a
Ukip candidate in South Thanet. Whether he is called Brown, Jones or Aitken that
candidate will do well."

Another disgraced former Tory MP, Piers Merchant, is Ukip's acting chief
executive. But applicant forms require potential Ukip candidates to declare any
criminal record, which may stymie Mr Aitken.

If he did stand, he would probably deprive the Conservatives of one of their
main target seats. Labour took the seat in 1997, wiping out Mr Aitken's majority
of 11,000. At the time Ukip only took 1.4 % of the vote.

The Tory leadership is seriously disturbed by Ukip, fearing a strong vote for
the party, which has 12 MEPs after the June elections, could hit the
Conservatives disproportion-ately at the general election.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 20, 2004, Monday

The Lib Dems must tell us what they really stand for

BYLINE: By Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 20

LENGTH: 967 words

Even Liberal Democrats have a sense of the absurd. The former education
spokesman Don Foster tells a story about how he once had a furious row in a lift
with the then Treasury spokesman Malcolm Bruce. Voices were raised, insults
flung, ideologies denounced as they argued about the budget for schools. Then
the door of the lift opened, Mr Foster got out and the thought came to him, in a
flash, that they had been at daggers drawn over the equivalent of who should own
Mayfair on the Monopoly board. Neither man had any real money to spend, neither
man's proposals were ever going to be implemented because neither man was ever
going to get into power. Being a Liberal Democrat has always involved a certain
suspension of disbelief.

As Charles Kennedy's troops gather in Bournemouth for their conference this
week, could all that be about to change? The Liberal Democrats are in a stronger
position now than they have been for 20 years. Nearly a quarter of voters say
they intend to vote Lib Dem at the next general election. What is more, the
third party almost always benefits more than the others from the greater
exposure it gets during an election campaign. At this point before the general
election in 1997, the Liberal Democrats had 11 per cent of the vote, which rose
to 17 per cent on polling day. In 2001, they had 13 per cent, which went up to
19 per cent. If they are in the low- to mid-20s in the opinion polls now, and
their vote rises by the same proportion this time round, then Mr Kennedy really
will be snapping at Michael Howard's heels.

Could Chatshow Charlie be the political equivalent of Forrest Gump, the amiable
chap who, much to his own surprise, suddenly finds himself winning against the
odds? Probably not. But could the story of the next election be a battle for
second place between the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives? It's not
impossible.

Steve Norris, the Tories' former mayoral candidate, thinks it could happen - he
warned yesterday that there was "certainly a danger" that the Liberal Democrats
would overtake the Conservatives. If the UK Independence Party takes votes from
Mr Howard's party, then the Lib Dems' "decapitation strategy" does not look so
stupid - David Davis, Oliver Letwin and

Theresa May are all worried. If the Liberal Democrats start to become a real
alternative to Labour, then their support could snowball because backing them
would no longer feel like a wasted vote. During the 1983 election campaign, Lib
Dem strategists point out, the SDP-Liberal Alliance had a huge surge of support
when voters decided that Michael Foot's Labour Party had no chance of getting
into power.

The Lib Dems have brilliantly turned themselves into the protest vote party, the
anti-war, anti-politics electoral dustbin for people who are fed up with Labour
but do not like the Tories. This is both an asset and a liability for them. For
a third party, it is a no-lose situation. Mr Kennedy just sits there, man of the
people, glass of whisky in hand, and waits for the others to mess up. It does
not matter whether the Lib Dems' policies are inconsistent or their local
campaigns dirty - they get votes simply because of what they are not.

But for a party that wants to move into second or even first place, the dustbin
position is limiting. Protest vote parties do not win power - people vote for
them precisely because they are not going to do so. Although most voters would
like to go to the pub with the Liberal Democrat leader, only 15 per cent think
he would make a better prime minister than Tony Blair. This means that almost
half the people who intend to vote Liberal Democrat do not actually want to see
Mr Kennedy in Number 10. They would probably switch to another party if they
thought he might actually get there.

If the Lib Dems want to become a genuine political force, they will have to
become something positive in the voters' minds as well. They will have to iron
out the contradictions in their policies which allow them to be portrayed as
simultaneously to the Left of Labour and to the Right of the Conservatives. It
is ridiculous, for example, to oppose ID cards for humans but support the
compulsory microchipping of dogs.

The younger generation of Liberal Democrats understands the problem. Mark Oaten
calls for a "tough liberalism" approach to law and order; Steve Webb, the
Treasury spokesman, advocates a cap on state spending; David Laws, his deputy,
proposes the introduction of a social insurance system for funding the National
Health Service. In The Orange Book, a recent collection of essays, Mr Laws told
his party that it had to stop advocating "liberalism a la carte". Liberals, he
said, should believe in free trade, market mechanisms, consumer power. They
should campaign for the repatriation of some powers from Brussels, so that
decisions are taken as close to the electors as possible. They should avoid the
"nanny state liberalism" that caused them to vote at last year's conference for
a ban on goldfish at fairs. He quotes Jo Grimond as saying in 1980: "Much of
what Mrs Thatcher and Sir Keith Joseph say and do is in the mainstream of
liberal philosophy."

For many, perhaps most, of the people gathering in Bournemouth this week, such
language is unacceptable. About half of the Liberal Democrat MPs voted for
hunting to be banned last week, a completely illiberal measure. But by using the
freedom argument, the modernisers have squared the circle of appealing
simultaneously to Labour and Tory voters - they are neither Left-wing nor
Right-wing: they are liberal.

Unless the Liberal Democrats ignore the sandal-wearing brigade and follow the
modernisers to return to their liberal roots, they will never be anything more
than a protest vote party with no chance of ever winning power.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              49 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 20, 2004, Monday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR KENNEDY MUST SHOW THAT LIB DEMS CAN APPEAL TO THE CENTRE AS
WELL AS THE MARGINS

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 685 words


THE LIBERAL Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, has cut a thoroughly positive
figure in the run-up to his party conference this week in Bournemouth. He has
capitalised impressively on his party's opposition to the war in Iraq, helped -
admittedly - by the embarrassing efforts of Tory leaders to wriggle out of their
ill-conceived stance on the war. He has also benefited from an unusually strong
front-bench team, with special mention due to the Foreign Affairs spokesman, Sir
Menzies Campbell. The result is a cogent and considered manifesto.

So when Mr Kennedy says, as he has done in pre-conference interviews, that the
party is poised for an electoral breakthrough, this is no idle day-dream. It is
a reasonable expectation, which is also confirmed by recent opinion polls. As Mr
Kennedy has also said, however, and repeated yesterday, this depends on the
party presenting a credible alternative to what is already on offer. And that
requires the Lib Dems not only to have policies that set them apart from the
other two main parties, but to have a policies and leadership package that makes
them a plausible party of government. This is where Mr Kennedy still has work to
do.

For all the gains made by the party in recent elections, it has failed to move
convincingly or consistently into the second slot behind Labour. In the European
elections, it had to settle for fourth place behind the UK Independence Party.
This was not the result for which it had hoped.

Support for the European Union, its principled opposition to the Iraq war and
its courageous stance on immigration are all policies that set the Lib Dems
apart. On these issues, unlike Labour or the Tory party, the Lib Dems are
united. They have no need of the parsing and qualifying that the other two
parties have to apply. On foreign policy, the Lib Dems already present a
credible alternative.

They are advancing in that direction on the economy as well. Their pre- election
manifesto presents a carefully calculated set of policies, many of which make a
great deal of sense. These include the proposal that many government
departments, including the Treasury, should be moved out of London. And this is
not cutting for cuts' sake, it is part of a wider policy to devolve much more
control to the regions. This is responsible and bold; it is also something many
people would probably support.

It is with the party's tax and spending proposals that the first misgivings
arise. The notion of abolishing council tax, introducing a local income tax and
raising the upper rate of income tax has more than superficial appeal -
especially to the lower paid and pensioners. Several of the party's spending
proposals are also eye-catching, including the abolition of charges for
long-term care for the elderly.

The question here, however, is whether the sums add up quite as the Lib Dems say
they do. Just as the lower paid and pensioners would, by and large, benefit, so
middle-income earners could find themselves doubly penalised. Yet it is, by and
large, middle-income professionals who are starting to lose out under the
current system, too, because of the proliferation of means-tested benefits.

Nor, as the British and US experience has so graphically shown over the years,
do higher taxes necessarily lead to a higher "take" for the Exchequer. The
reverse can be true. The better off can afford better advice and more effective
shelters for their income. It is not apparent that the Lib Dems, who tend to
think the best of humanity, have necessarily thought this fully through.

Mr Kennedy goes into his party conference stronger, personally and politically,
than for many a year. To achieve the "breakthrough" he has so striven for,
though, he needs to show not only that the Lib Dems' arithmetic is correct, but
that he and his party can appeal to the mainstream - to all those voters whom
New Labour and the Tories have managed to alienate between them. Mr Kennedy's
task for the week is to show that he can broaden his party's appeal and make the
Lib Dems the credible alternative they deserve to be.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              50 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 20, 2004, Monday

I WILL BE VOTING LIB DEM AT THE NEXT ELECTION - BUT NEGATIVELY AND WITH LITTLE
ENTHUSIASM

BYLINE: YASMIN ALIBHAI-BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1168 words


I will be voting for the Liberal Democrats at the next election, of that I am
sure. Why is harder to answer, though some reasons are obvious. They did not
support the bloody and illegal Iraq war, which has made so many of us feel
disempowered, enraged and ashamed of being British. Iyad Allawi, the interim
Iraqi Prime Minister (an old friend of the CIA), arrived in the UK to stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with our PM in Downing Street yesterday, each propping up
the other as their credibility diminishes.

Over this catastrophic year, New Labour apparatchiks have allowed themselves and
their party to fall into international disrepute. In private, they confess
disquiet; in public, like the most hopeless of intimidated wives, they stand by
their man. Too many on the left of the party have become fatalistic; they tell
me "Gordon has no balls" and "There is no one else who can lead the party." Oh
and how terribly anguished they are.

Geoffrey Howe was more gutsy and honest when he turned on the destructive
policies of Margaret Thatcher, and she didn't have all this blood on her hands.
Through this sticky swamp of cowardice, Menzies Campbell has risen to become a
most incisive and steadfast inquisitor who insistently (but politely)
interrogates the ministers who took us to war.

On other issues which mean a lot to me - asylum, the EU, equality - the Lib Dems
are not (yet) drifting to the right or stirring up petty nationalism. The late
Roy Jenkins, one of our greatest post-war politicians, knew how to use political
skills to promote universal ideals. A number of Lib Dems who are worthy
inheritors of this legacy - Shirley Williams, Navnit Dholakia, Anthony Lester,
Julia Neuberger, Evan Harris, Sarah Ludford, Simon Hughes, Lembit Opik and
others - have excellent records on speaking up for progressive policies.

With Blair now promising that thousands more asylum-seekers will be forced back
into peril, and the Tories asking for still more punishing measures, there is
but one party if you care for the rights and plights of these wandering
creatures. UKIP is a force the Lib Dems can ignore - the other two main parties
will accommodate the visceral anti-European sentiments that riddle this land.

But most of all, it is the unswerving commitment to civil rights and liberties
that draws people to this party, because both are under such severe assault from
the forces of conservatism. How satisfying to see the right howling this week
about the importance of minority rights and the "brutality" of the police during
the pro-hunting demos. Now they are with the miners and black protesters
hammered by the Tories and those of us who fear state power under the
anti-terrorism legislation. Welcome.

Charles Kennedy is right to clamp down on right-wing mutterings from upstarts
who want a change of direction as their annual conference begins today. If this
party steals the used clothes of New Labour, which stole them from the Tories,
it will make itself shabby, pathetic and irrelevant. Our democracy will become
even more distorted, leaving millions of Britons with homeless votes.

It is plain for all to see, and good for our nation, that we are now a
three-party democracy. You can feel the surge. I relish the possibility of the
muddled and manic Tories sinking into third place. Lib Dems could just kick out
David Davis, Oliver Letwin and even Michael Howard. If they do, I will feel
again that ecstasy which came over so many of us when Michael Portillo was
knocked out and Chris Patten too. Bliss.

New Labour plays hard, dirty politics in constituencies where it is vulnerable
to the Lib Dems and yet the latter move inexorably up, as they did in the last
two by-elections. The polls show them at about 25 per cent - the highest level
for decades. For black and Asian voters and potential politicians, this finally
does seem a party which welcomes them. For half a century, it seemed we had only
one choice, which is no choice really. Most of us handed our votes over to
Labour, then to New Labour which, to give it credit, went on to appoint an
unprecedented number of black and Asian MPs, peers and ministers. Now, though,
Mr Blair's insufferable arrogance, conservatism, and military madness have led
to many of us seeking new hope in the Lib Dems.

So why, oh why do I not feel more excited, more enthusiastic, more positively a
Lib Dem? It must be because the party is too pale beige, tremulous, cautious,
uninspiring. It needs to come across as a stronger flavour; it needs to be hot,
more conscious that the destiny of our country is at stake. And in this world of
personalities the buck stops at Charles Kennedy.

True, he has lost that deadly lethargy, that look of boredom as if he would
rather be playing with words on some witty television show. So pedestrian had he
made himself that he is mentioned just twice, briefly, by David Stenhouse, the
author of On The Make, a terrific book about the powerful Scots who have taken
over London. But there is a new, tough glint in his eye, a growing awareness of
possibilities. People like him because he is playful and modest. I like him
because he is bright. Now he must force himself to develop the qualities of good
leadership even if this feels false to a man who is utterly himself.

The trick Kennedy has to pull off is within his grasp. Vast numbers of Britons
detest both the mendacious, messianic Blair and the sinister Howard. New Labour
has indisputably improved the NHS and education; and the Tories are working up
some good new ideas - David Willetts, for example, is beavering away to find
solutions that could dramatically improve childcare provision for the poorest in
this country. It is the men in charge who are proving to be a liability in both
the ruling and main opposition party. They turn people off even if the policies
appeal.

Blair once said about Pontius Pilate: "the intriguing thing about him is the
degree to which he tried to do the good thing rather than the bad. He commands
our moral attention not because he was a bad man but because he was so nearly a
good man. It is a timeless parable of political life. Should we do what appears
principled or what is politically expedient?"

Prescient, yes, and perhaps one of the few indicators of what goes on in the
head and heart of Tony Blair. But there is a test and a lesson in this quote for
Charles Kennedy too as he confronts his destiny.

He is so nearly a leader, almost a success. He too faces the same dilemma. Does
he opt for ruthless expediency for the Lib Dems - the "tough liberalism" some
like Mark Oaten are calling for? Or does he forcefully launch policies that are
practical and sensible but which keep faith with the values and principles of
his party and the enlightened in the world?

Tony Blair chose the former and betrayed the millions who once supported him. I
hope Charles Kennedy chooses the second, and with previously unseen passion.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              51 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 20, 2004, Monday

AITKEN BID TO BE MP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words


SHAMED former Tory Cabinet Minister Jonathan Aitken is considering a return to
the House of Commons.

Aitken, 62, jailed for 18 months for perjury in 1999, says he may stand for his
old Thanet, Kent, seat for the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              52 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 20, 2004

GOT EU!

BYLINE: Michael Lea in Strasbourg

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE: 4-DAY FLIT FOR SAKE OF FRENCH

LENGTH: 656 words


Sun catches Brussels red-handed wasting Pounds 55M of YOUR money

A JUGGERNAUT trundles into EU headquarters in Strasbourg after a bizarre journey
from Brussels -pouring more of YOUR money down the drain.

Sun investigators witnessed a convoy of 15 trucks roll in as the entire European
Parliament decamped to historic Strasbourg for just FOUR DAYS.

It is a farcical monthly ritual in which thousands of metal trunk-loads of
documents are loaded up and driven 265 miles to the historic French town from
Brussels.

At the same time 732 MEPs and around 3,000 other staff fly to Strasbourg.

Meanwhile, 170 more workers and their papers arrive from the EU Parliament's
third site 133 miles away in Luxembourg.

When the mini-session ends the trunks are packed and returned to Brussels or
Luxembourg.

And the whole crazy three-centre system -which experts say costs an extra Pounds
55MILLION a year -exists just to appease the French.

The bizarre 48-days-a-year exodus is enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty and can
only be changed by agreement of all 25 member countries.

Danish eurosceptic MEP Jens-Peter Bonde raged: "This is such an absurd waste of
taxpayers' money, to have the same people meeting in two places.

"But France will never agree to surrendering Strasbourg."

British Euro MP Nigel Farage, of UKIP, said: "This travelling circus embodies
what the EU is all about. It's expensive, wasteful and totally unreformable. If
the people of Europe knew what was being done with their money they would be
outraged.

"I don't know whether to laugh or cry. We have to ask whether we really want to
keep going along with this project."

Tory MEP Chris Heaton-Harris added: "Everything we need for the European
Parliament we have already in Brussels. Nothing is achieved in Strasbourg that
cannot be done there."

On Friday The Sun watched lorries at three sites around the Strasbourg complex,
including an underground car park.

On Thursday, at least two advance trucks were seen stacked with temporary
cupboards and trunks, known as cantines.

Centres

The cost to EU taxpayers of maintaining the three centres is Pounds 140MILLION a
year.

The bill includes at least Pounds 13million in "mission expenses" -moving MEPs
and staff to and from Strasbourg -and Pounds 140,000 to transport the trunks.

An official report from the Parliament's Secretary-General estimated that
streamlining to one site could save Pounds 55million.

Parliament's three locations are a throwback to the days of the EU in which
France, Belgium and Luxembourg were major players.

Strasbourg, on the FrenchGerman border, is seen as a symbol of post-war
reconciliation.

The three-site system was reinforced by EU leaders when they met in Edinburgh in
1992. Luxembourg is an administrative centre, where most of the permanent staff
are based. Political workers largely operate in Brussels.

When the MEPs are in Brussels the Pounds 230million Strasbourg building lies
empty -except for visiting parties of schoolchildren.

The Secretary-General's report, drawn up two years ago, noted: "Alternating
activities between Brussels and Strasbourg requires twice the infrastructure, IT
and technical equipment, as well as general amenities."

In March another official European Parliament report concluded: "The working
place arrangement is a waste of money and damaging to our credibility." This is
just the latest example of EU mismanagement. In July, a Sun investigation found:

* THE European Commission paid Pounds 96million in rent for an EMPTY building in
Brussels.

* A WHISTLEBLOWER who tried to lift the lid on fiddling was sidelined from his
job.

* A SECRET guidebook was discovered revealing how Euro MPs are entitled to an
annual perks package worth Pounds 140million.

* THERE are no publicly available records logging MEPs' expenses and allowances.

The Sun Says -Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              53 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 20, 2004, Monday

Labour is dying. It's time to bring on the bores

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 941 words


"A SOUND Conservative government" -what is that? It is an administration of
reasonable and experienced people, responding to the various problems of policy
in a careful and professional way. It is not the sort of government which we got
from Margaret Thatcher; that was "a radical Conservative government", a rare
minority form, which had been called for by the collapsing British economy of
the late 1970s.

A sound government is not colourful, or romantic, or particularly appealing to
headline writers. Nor is it necessary, or even desirable, that its leaders
should be people of ardent imagination. It exists to be dull, but competent.
This is the type of useful government Michael Howard would be expected to
provide.

A sound Conservative government is the natural, if unexciting, way for Britain
to be governed in the intervals between radical bursts of energy.

Every generation needs its own radical government, to offer a new projection of
politics. Since the war, we have had them about every 20 years; in 1945, in 1964
- which was a failure -in 1979, and in 1997. The trouble with radical
administrations is that they inevitably run out of energy. They start to stink.

I have seen ministers of great ability struggle to relight the flame; with one
possible exception, I have never seen one succeed. Attlee could not do it after
1949; Harold Wilson never recovered from the unpopularity of 1967; Margaret
Thatcher was repudiated by her own party in 1990, leaving an infection of
disloyalty which has weakened the Conservatives to this day.

Harold Macmillan is the possible exception. Macmillan, who really belongs to the
category of sound and cautious leaders, though he had his romantic side, did
much to restore Conservative confidence in 1957 and 1958, after the disaster of
Eden's Suez campaign. But even Macmillan could not relight the flame when his
own administration plunged into decline.

There comes a point when a government has lost its energy and its public appeal.

It becomes divided and disloyal. It even seems increasingly sleazy. It cannot
agree what to do next. At that point, the best thing the public can do is put
the government out of its misery. In 1951, 1964, 1970, 1979 and 1997, we rightly
did so; our only serious mistake was to re-elect the Conservatives for a
disastrous fourth term in 1992.

The Labour Government now seems to be in this terminal stage. Its best electoral
hope is that it may have reached the stage John Major had reached by the later
months of 1991. Almost everyone senses that Labour ought to go, but voters may
not yet be ready to return the Opposition to power. There is indeed a widespread
assumption that the Conservatives are still unelectable. There is no statistical
basis for that assumption; indeed, the Conservatives are probably ahead at
present.

The commentators have failed to take two facts into account. The first is that
opinion polls have consistently overrated the Labour Party for the past three
elections. If one takes the final forecasts of the three main polls in 1992,
they underrated the Conservative lead by an average of 8.5 per cent. If one
takes the first polls of the next two campaigns, they overstated the eventual
Labour lead by 10.5 per cent in 1997 and 10 per cent in 2001.

If the polls are still undercounting Conservative support, the Tories probably
have a lead of between 5 and 10 per cent in a real election.

The second statistic comes from the European elections in June. Labour polled
3,615,000 votes against 10,741,000 at the 2001 general election. That was only
33.5 per cent of Labour's 2001 turnout. The Conservatives polled 4,393,000 votes
against 8,357,000 at the 2001 general election. Despite the large vote for the
UK Independence Party, that was 52.5 per cent of the Conservatives' 2001
turnout. Any similar difference in party turnout at the next general election
would destroy Labour's overall majority.

These elections were followed by a very bad June and July for Labour. Bad
summers are a normal feature of the political cycle. I think it was Stanley
Baldwin who first said that "July is a bad month for prime ministers". It is not
always easy to answer the question: is this a cyclical downturn, or is it real
decline? The answer comes after the recess.

In the past two weeks Parliament has returned. The news must be very
discouraging for Tony Blair. It is as though the recess had never happened. The
agenda has not changed; it is still dominated by Iraq, and that is almost wholly
negative for the Prime Minister.

In the United States, Iraq is the central issue of the presidential election.
The Republicans actually promote it, because voters prefer President Bush as a
war leader.

Here it will also be a central issue; but in Britain, Iraq is an unpopular war
and Tony Blair is an unpopular war leader. Iraq splits the Labour Party, with a
majority of Labour supporters against the war. Unless the security situation
improves, Mr Blair may be forced to postpone the general election, perhaps into
2006.

The original idealism of new Labour is now nothing but a stale memory. Labour
now seems to be a government of false promises, germ-filled hospitals, means
tests, higher taxes, and falling performance. How on Earth could Labour campaign
on university fees or pensions? It seems that things can only get worse. The
Tories have no pretence of magic; the young may regard the Tory leadership as
"boring old farts", which might be unfair, at least to Nicholas Soames. But even
if it were true, the country might reasonably prefer boring competence to failed
illusions.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               September 19, 2004

TORIES NEED AN IMMIGRATION POLICY AS WELL AS A NEW LOGO

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 849 words


As police were changing into riot gear outside the House of Commons last week to
meet hunt protesters, a revolution of a different kind was getting started in
the Conservative Party's new headquarters. Liam Fox, the party's co-chairman,
was unveiling a new logo - an androgynous arm positively gripping the Tory
torch. The colours were red, white and blue and the party name was screaming out
in bold capitals.

The Tories are getting dressed for a new battle. Their primary enemy is not
Labour, but the anti-immigration fringe parties eating away their core vote. The
logo signified a new attitude and a turbulent shift now under way.

The UK election due in 2005 may be dominated by a new, complex ingredient - the
immigration backlash. It is the force that dare not speak its name in
Westminster, which remains in denial about the whole affair.

The problem is Westminster. Of its 659 MPs, none belong to an anti-immigration
party - a source of pride to those who believe this shows Britain to be a more
tolerant society than its European neighbours. While the National Front came
second in France's presidential elections and far-right parties share government
in Netherlands and Austria, the far-right British National Party (BNP) has not
so much as a toe-hold in the House of Commons

This, alas, is a deception. Successive social surveys shows Britain being just
as hostile to immigration as counties who elect far-right parties - the only
difference is that the Westminster election system does not give vent to such
opinions.

A poll by Ipsos, released in May, showed that 60% of Britons feel immigration
exerts a malign influence on the country. This ratio was the highest in the
whole of the European Union: it was true for only 52% in France and 47% in
Germany.

One Cabinet member said he was stunned to see the new political mood when
trailing doorsteps recently. "They didn't talk about Iraq or hospitals. It was
immigration," he said. "There is deep, serious resentment here, it's not racism,
and I wish we had an answer for these people. We don't but we'll need one by the
general election"

The bombastic style of David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, has been used by the
Labour government as a substitute for a coherent asylum policy. The crazier
Blunkett sounds, ministers argue, the easier Middle England will sleep.

Polls suggest otherwise. An explosive situation is developing: Britain has a
substantial anti-immigrant constituency with no mainstream party willing to
delve in these waters. The way is then clear for genuinely racist parties.

And they are on the rise. The BNP, for example, won yet another council ward
from Labour on Thursday night in an East London by-election. Time was when this
would have triggered national uproar: this time it went almost unreported.

While Tory voters balk at a racist party like the BNP, they have fewer qualms
about the UK Independence Party, which has broadened its mission from being
against the European Union to against immigration policies.

UKIP owes its success to tapping the popular frustration that the Tories have
spectacularly failed to mine. Politically, it is trying to split the atom:
separate racism from deep-rooted opposition to the asylum system.

"You call these people racists, it's lazy and you're wrong," Robert Kilroy-Silk
told the House of Commons press gallery when invited to their monthly lunch club
a fortnight ago. "If you are right, then why is UKIP so successful?"

The former BBC chat-show host is exerting a force in UK politics as bizarre and
as undeniable as the shadow which Michael Moore, the conspiracy theorist and
film-maker, has cast over the American presidential election campaign.

The European Parliament elections were not a one-off. UKIP look set to beat the
Tories into fourth place at next month's Hartlepool by-election. With a possible
general election less than a year away, the Conservatives have got the message.

"The problem is that everyone is so petrified of being called racists by the
metropolitan London media," one Shadow Cabinet member told me. "But London
doesn't understand England anymore. That's the new reality."

So the new Tory logo will come with a new Tory attitude - unlikely to be
unveiled in time for their annual conference in a fortnight's time. The asylum
strategy must be robust without being racist: a course plotted with utmost care.

The Tories will say they now stand for, say, black British voters who worked
their way up after migrating in 1960, and are irritated with asylum seekers
being handed a house and benefits without either working or learning English.

The facts point to asylum seekers generating much of the economic growth saving
Britain from French-style unemployment. A third of all National Health Service
doctors are migrants: the NHS is built on foreign blood.

But a growing chunk of the British public has stopped listening to these
arguments and the mainstream parties who produce them. Now the Tory vote is
being drained, the party is doing something about it.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                              55 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 19, 2004

Business & Media: Business: Now he's taking on the world: The former Prince of
Darkness wants to tackle global poverty in his new EU post, says Faisal Islam

BYLINE: Faisal Islam

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1415 words


PERHAPS it was the distant sound of REM's Michael Stipe, sound-testing up the
road for Oxfam's Make Trade Fair concert. Or maybe the setting for our
interview, the airy atrium of the Department for International Development, had
lifted his thoughts to a higher plane. Or perhaps his unlikely return to high
office had gone to his head. But lofty idealism is not what one expects to hear
in an encounter with twice-departed cabinet minister Peter Mandelson.

'I have a responsibility, in a sense, to the world,' he says after I suggest in
my interview for Channel 4 that his new job as EU Trade Commissioner will mainly
involve him standing up for the vested interests of French farmers.

To the world? This is the Prince of Darkness, the Sultan of Spin, that ultimate
man in the shadows who counts himself as 'probably as close to the Prime
Minister and his family as anyone in political life in this country'.

He may feel qualified to quash rumours that Tony Blair was recently considering
his position on mysterious family grounds - but a responsibility to the world?

He elaborates: 'Obviously I come from Europe, which is the biggest economic
space in the world. Of course I have a responsibility in leading for Europe, as
I will do, to make sure the outcome (of trade negotiations) doesn't damage
Europe's economic interests.

'But my view is that our economic interests in Europe depend on others'
interests also being served. We are interdependent. These trading opportunities
we want and the chances for economic development abroad are interlocked,' he
says.

He is no longer Peter Mandelson MP. He is currently flitting between Brussels
and London preparing to take up his post as the all-powerful trade tsar of the
world's biggest economic bloc.

So he agreed to talk about his approach to the burgeoning campaign for trade
justice on the day that Oxfam rolled out the A-list celebs for its Make Trade
Fair concert. That campaign, 20 years on from the first Live Aid, marks a
seismic shift in the fight for global economic justice.

In 1984 it was about emergency aid; in the 1990s the focus shifted to
cancellation of Third World debt. Now it's all about reforming unfair trade
rules that keep the poorest countries in perpetual poverty. A massive
campaigning coalition is mobilising next year under the banner 'Make Poverty
History', to coincide with Britain's presidency of the European Union and the G8
grouping of 'fabulously wealthy' countries.

Mandelson's role in this agenda is pivotal. As Trade Commissioner he will be
horse-trading the intransigence of Europe's subsidy-addicted farmers with the
hefty economic opportunities offered to its other exporters by the likes of
fast-industrialising China and India.

Does he agree with campaigners that Europe's labyrinthine Common Agricultural
Policy is responsible for a system that leaves half the world's population
earning less than $ 2 a day?

'I understand only too well that whilst CAP serves and supports many people's
livelihoods in Europe, it's also, as a by-product, responsible for dumping food
surpluses on world markets, with the result that developing countries are faced
with downward pressure on prices and unfair competition for their own
agricultural products in world markets,' he says.

So Europe's incoming trade commissioner is already admitting that the farm
support system is unfair. But he is aware that fundamental reform is a delicate
subject.

'I understand this (unfairness) only too well and that's why I'm a firm
supporter of reform and change. You'll understand that I have to carry my
colleagues in the European Commission with that objective, but then that's one
of my responsibilities and one I fully intend to fulfil,' he says.

So the politics started as soon as the new Portuguese President of the European
Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, agreed to appoint him to the post.

The Eurostar has become a second home as he flits between Brussels and London
for team bonding sessions. Mandelson will be moving over to his new Brussels
home in a fortnight. He formally takes over his new position on 1 November,
though he says that he feels as if he has already started.

For now his official title is European Trade Commissioner-designate. And in the
coming weeks he will be facing a public grilling from eurosceptic MEPs, from the
Tories and the UK Independence Party, as well as Green MEPs who are troubled
about a perceived evangelism for globalisation. He says the choice between 'us'
and 'them' is a false one.

'If we work it out well there doesn't need to be a choice between our economic
interests and those of developing countries. But if we complete these
negotiations properly there can be beneficial major opportunities for developing
countries as well. That's the key objective for me for the trade and development
round negotiations that will be taking place over the next year, and I believe
that success is possible,' he says.

The trade post will offer a supreme test of political nerve, verbal dexterity,
and above all negotiation skills from a man who, depending on your view, kept
the peace or was the main source of tension, between Prime Minister and
chancellor.

'Its too simplistic to say there's one set of economic interests as opposed to
other. That the reason why talks are so complex - economic interests do not
divide quite so simply,' he says, pointing to a recent World Trade Organisation
ruling that support for sugar beet cultivators was illegal. Mandelson says that,
far from helping the poorest countries in the world, which currently enjoy
preferential access to European markets, the real winners would be Brazil,
Thailand and Australia.

'If reform of the sugar regime takes place - and it has to, because the WTO says
it must happen - that will directly affect adversely the economic interests of
other developing countries,' he says. That is just one measure of his new job's
complexity. No wonder that the last man in the post, Pascal Lamy, was a marathon
runner. Even more important, he was a Frenchman.

To some in the French press, Mandelson is the Trojan Horse of insane,
neo-liberal, Anglo-Saxon capitalism on the Continent. French egos are at present
a little bruised, already annoyed at the sickly Atlanticism of those upstart new
nations such as Estonia and Poland.

Barroso snubbed President Chirac by handing France the lowly transport brief.
But the real horreur in Paris will be reserved for the fact that the lingua
franca of Europe is now English. Nineteen of the 25 new EU Commissioners have
opted to conduct business in English, though Mandelson is said to be polishing
up his schoolboy French.

He will also appoint key aides from France, including one who is a former
lobbyist for French farmers.

Ever the politician, Mandelson praised his predecessor's recent rescue of
faltering global trade talks.

'I think it is very important that after the near-collapse of trade and
development talks in Cancun and their then-rescue in Geneva this year the way
forward - the breakthrough if you like - has been made by the EU's in-principle
commitment to eliminate agricultural support subsidies. Now that is a tremen
dous breakthrough,' he says.

So will he, as demanded by Oxfam, confirm a timetable for the elimination of
these subsidies? 'I can't set dates today but I'm absolutely sure that
eliminating those subsidies over whatever period is eventually agreed is
fundamental to the success of the development talks,' he said

Mandelson has always performed better as a man on a mission, with a trans
formative project. Perhaps it's the last vestiges of his youthful flirtation
with communism (a past he shares with Barroso, a former Maoist).

So perhaps this might explain his potentially revolutionary view about the
future of Europe's agricul-tural policy. 'I am sure in my mind that the policy,
for a whole variety of reasons, has to change, because it's in everyone's
interests that it has to change. And I'm equally sure that financially it's
unsustainable,' he says.

There's a vast array of thorny topics in his in-tray. Watch out for the brewing
tension between Airbus and Boeing over state subsidies.

Some say he's simply paving the way for Blair to become President of Europe but
for now he remains the comeback king. One half- expects him to turn up on stage
at the next Oxfam gig.

Faisal Islam is the business reporter for Channel 4 News.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 19, 2004

News in brief: Ukip campaign

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 47 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter now Euro MP for the East
Midlands, visited Hartlepool yesterday with the Ukip by-election candidate
Stephen Allison. His visit follows those of Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy
as well as a host of Labour ministers.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 19, 2004

Kennedy fights on two fronts: Lib Dems face internal struggle as they decide
whether a shift to the left will harm general election chances

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff and Anushka Asthana

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 936 words


FROM her campaign HQ in Hartlepool, Jody Dunn gazes out every day at three
bright orange diamonds attached to the opposite wall. Deliberately designed to
ape her own posters for the forthcoming by-election, they accuse the young
Liberal Democrat barrister of being 'soft on drugs', 'soft on yobs' and 'soft on
crime'. Dunn may be a brown belt in judo, but Labour fights dirty here.

The drugs claim stems from the fact that she once represented a heroin addict in
court: her party's argument that draconian court orders are not the only answer
to troubled teenagers earned the 'yobs' charge. Such tactics may yet ensure
that, while Dunn could force the Tories into a humiliating fourth place behind
the extremist UK Independence Party, Labour holds on to Peter Mandelson's old
seat.

For Charles Kennedy, who spent last Friday visiting a Hartlepool school, the
vicious tussle here encapsulates the challenge of this week's annual party
conference in Bournemouth. While he will kick off with a rally celebrating
by-election triumphs in Brent East and Leicester South, Hartlepool shows he
cannot build a national campaign around Iraq. Crucially, it also suggests that,
in a climate dominated by issues such as crime and terrorism, the old
beards-and-sandals stereotype of woolly liberalism could be his Achilles' heel.

Mark Oaten, Kennedy's home affairs spokesman and increasingly close confidant,
today calls for a new approach of 'tough liberalism' to counter such threats -
including plans for a form of 'neighbourhood justice' where petty offenders are
judged by their peers. In his article on this page of The Observer, he warns of
a 'bid ding war between the Tories and Labour to see who can sound tougher on
law and order' in the run-up to the election, Oaten concedes that the Lib Dems'
willingness to question tough policies 'has left voters with the impression that
we are soft on crime.'

Kennedy will use this week to suggest he means business on the big issues - and
not only traditional Lib Dem concerns.

However, that risks upsetting colleagues on the left, increasingly suspicious of
the coterie of younger, media-savvy, and discernibly more right-wing
frontbenchers around him. The equivalent of the Tories' modernising 'Notting
Hill set', they include Oaten as well as Treasury spokesman Vince Cable, who has
helped wean the party off its addiction to high taxes; local government
spokesman Ed Davey; and Nick Clegg, the brains behind attempts to target the
fiftysomething 'Baby Boomer' vote.

The two sides clashed publicly last month over the Orange Book , a volume of
essays published by Cable's fiercely bright, yet politically naive deputy, David
Laws, whose own chapter calling for healthcare to be funded by social insurance
triggered uproar.

Kennedy was forced to deny that social insurance was now Lib Dem policy: it
still got more publicity than the party's actual ideas on health, rattling those
who fear a swing to the right as Kennedy targets Tory-held seats.

'We appeal to those people who are peel-offable by being a progressive party,'
warns Evan Harris, the party's former health spokesman and an influential figure
on the left. 'There's no good principled reason, practical reason or
psephological reason (to shift to the right). Our main issue is getting our
existing policies across, not introspecting on our own position.'

Yet from the other side, Kennedy will be attacked this weekend by Alan Leaman,
former director of strategy to his predecessor Paddy Ashdown. Arguing that
chasing Labour votes is an 'expensive cul-de-sac', since most of the party's
target seats are Tory, Leaman warns in Policy Review magazine that the party
risks 'pushing its political message in the wrong direction'. He adds that
Kennedy is in danger of becoming a 'one-trick pony' over Iraq.

The limitations of Iraq have certainly been exposed in Hartlepool, whose mainly
white, working-class voters largely backed the war, free ing Labour to unleash
an aggressive domestic-based campaign.

Kennedy will unveil policies aimed at what one aide calls 'the stresses of
people's ordinary lives', from student debt to the cost of longterm care.

The stresses of Kennedy's own life appear to have lessened since spring, when a
bout of food poisoning meant he missed the Budget, prompting rumours of shaky
nerves. Critics were silenced only by his performance in June's local and
European elections: by summer, polls put the party on 26 points, double its
rating going into the 2001 election. In a general election, that could spell Lib
Dem gains of 25 seats.

But to maintain the momentum, with most of his new supporters since 2001
defecting from Labour, Kennedy must now make inroads into Labour territory. The
Lib Dems will push into the cities, arguing that a Tory vote is a wasted vote
anywhere but in the shires: they are targeting Liverpool Wavertree and Newcastle
Central, alongside Labour seats in Manchester, Sheffield, Cardiff, Oxford and
Cambridge.

Simultaneously, the party will pursue a 'decapitation strategy' targeting senior
Tories from David Davis and Oliver Letwin - both potential leadership candidates
- to Michael Howard himself.

Can Kennedy target Tory and Labour seats simultaneously, without inflaming
divisions in his own party? Aides point out that, in 2001, they took both Tony
Benn's old seat in Chesterfield and true-blue Guildford.

Up in Hartlepool meanwhile, with its majority of 14,000, Jody Dunn remains
resolute: 'If we don't win, I want to know that we gave it our best shot.' That
may just be Kennedy's motto, too.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 19, 2004, Sunday

Kilroy-Silk eyes Hoon's seat

SECTION: Home news; News; 26

LENGTH: 69 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk, the former Labour MP who became a chat-show host, is eyeing
the constituency of Geoff Hoon, the defence secretary, in Ashfield in the east
Midlands in the hope of dealing the government an embarrassing defeat at the
general election. Now a leading figure in the anti-Europe UK Independence party,
Kilroy-Silk was elected as a Euro MP for the east Midlands in June's European
elections.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 19, 2004

TURKEY IN THE EU IS STUF F OF NIGHTMARES

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 500 words


JACK STRAW wants Turkey to join the EU. The Foreign Secretary proposes that
negotiations should begin in October.

He wants the vast, poor Muslim country to join the club in a few years' time.
The man's a fool.

The plans should be aborted now.

Turkey should not be allowed to join the community. It has a terrible record of
torture and on human rights and large numbers of its politicians are supporting
the criminalisation of adultery, with the law to be directed mainly against w
omen. It has, as former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing said, major
"cultural differences" with Europe.

But more important than this is that its membership will be immensely damaging
to Britain. It is we who would bear the enormous burden. And no one, of course,
has asked the British people if this is something that they are prepared to do.

The price we would have to pay would be high. Vast amounts of money would need
to be directed to Turkey just to bring it up to the level of the poorest members
of the EU. Britain would pay - or rather, the people of Nottingham, Derby and
Leicester and elsewhere would pay, again, as they do now to support French
farmers.

But nobody has asked them if they are willing to cough up. It has been decided
for them, as always, by the politicians in Westminster who think they know best.

Jack Straw will not enquire of his hardworking constituents of Blackburn
whether, for example, they are happy to have lower pensions in order to
subsidise the Turks. He will simply make the decision for them.

Nor will he or any other Government minister come clean about the consequences
for immigration. Yet these are serious. Once Turkey becomes a member of the EU,
tens of thousands of Turks will make their home in cities such as Nottingham and
Derby - and everywhere there is an existing Turkish community.

Jack Straw will deny this, of course.

The Government will mislead us, again, just as David Blunkett misled us about
the number of people likely to come to Britain when the eight Eastern European
countries joined the community in May of this year.

When the three Ukip MEPs voted against their entry because of the threat of
increased immigration they were sneered at, ridiculed. We were told that there
would be 13,000 new arrivals from these countries at most.

Last week the Government was forced to confess that it had got it wrong. It had
been too complacent. Far too complacent. In the month of July alone, 191,000
arrived - a 300 per cent increase on July of last year!

These were people from the poor countries of Eastern Europe looking for work.
The Turks are even poorer. How many of their 80 million do you think will make
their way here once they are legally entitled to? There will be hundreds of
thousands.

Is that what you want? Will you be content with this? If you are, that is fine.

It is your decision. If you are not, then you had better make your views known
to your MP now before it is too late.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              60 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           September 19, 2004, Sunday

THE RIGGING OF A REFERENDUM Prescott stacks the odds against 'No' campaigners

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 781 words

The forthcoming referendum on an elected regional government for the North-East
is generally dismissed by the media as just a "local story". This is their loss,
however, for not only do they miss its far-reaching national implications, they
are losing an opportunity to report on a fascinating political soap opera.

Last week, as the campaign got under way, John Prescott's Office of the Deputy
Prime Minister ended up with egg all over its face. It had to admit to putting
out an inaccurate - and possibly illegal - leaflet: an error that it plans to
rectify by issuing a further document that may also be illegal.

Then there was the curious way that the Electoral Commission chose to accredit
one of the two rival "No" campaigns that could have been eligible to receive
Government funding, in defiance of its own officials' advice and in a way that
plays into the hands of Mr Prescott's "Yes" campaign.

For two years, the opposition in the fight against Mr Prescott's proposed
assembly has been led by the "North East No" campaign run by Neil Herron, a
Sunderland businessman. This group has a successful track record, not least in
getting the Audit Commission to declare as illegal payments made by 25 local
authorities to a body set up to issue propaganda for the elected assembly.

Two months ago, however, another group, "North East Says No", entered the arena.
Originally masterminded from London by the Conservative Party, its main (and
useful) achievement has been to win endorsement from a phalanx of local business
leaders (including John Elliott, formerly the chairman of the other "No"
campaign). Run and staffed by Tories, the group has no track record and its
grasp of the issues appears to be minimal. When applications were made to the
Electoral Commission for official "designation", those responsible for examining
the applications concluded that Herron's group better met the criteria. Yet when
the five commissioners met last Monday to decide, they overruled their
officials' advice. On Tuesday, Mr Prescott thus had the best news he could have
hoped for: the designation - and pounds 100,000 of taxpayers' money - went to a
campaign run by a party now so weak in the region that it has only one MP.

If the referendum could be presented as a party battle, with a "No" campaign
identified with the Conservatives (plus the UK Independence Party), this would
be Mr Prescott's best chance of snatching victory against all odds.

As Mr Elliott shook hands with a visibly relieved Professor John Tomaney, the
leader of the "Yes" campaign, after the announcement, it was scarcely a
promising start. The North East Says No spokesman, a former Tory candidate,
claimed that the campaigners were not opposed to an elected assembly in
principle, and that if such an assembly were given more powers, they might
support it.

Despite this setback, Mr Herron and his supporters are fighting on as a
"people's campaign". Meanwhile, the shambles that Mr Prescott has made of his
own campaign is compounded by the Government's admission that it made a serious
factual error in its propaganda leaflet, Your Say, recently sent to every
North-East voter, by seriously understating the cost of setting up a unitary
local authority in Durham. The ODPM now plans to issue a "clarification" letter,
but only to the 200,000 voters in County Durham - even though its earlier
statement was sent to all 1.9 million voters, most of whom will thus be voting
on the basis of what Mr Prescott's deputy, Nick Raynsford, admitted last
Wednesday was erroneous information.

The ODPM knows that it is barred from sending out information during the 28 days
before a referendum, but as its own website shows, this period ends 28 days
before ballot papers go out on October 18, not, as the ODPM is now pretending,
28 days before polling day (November 4).

Furthermore, the ODPM's leaflet (which was not submitted for vetting to the
Electoral Commission) is now the subject of investigation because of two, still
more serious, errors. First, it claims that elections to the new assembly will
be by proportional representation, although the Regional Assemblies Bill makes
clear that two-thirds of the seats will be "first past the post". It also claims
that the assembly will be wholly independent of central government, when the
Bill makes clear that in crucial respects it will be subject to Government
control.

On Thursday, a formal complaint about these errors was lodged with the Audit
Commission and the Electoral Commission by Mr Herron's "North East No" campaign.
If this is upheld, it seems that, with only six weeks to go, Mr Prescott could
face his biggest embarrassment yet.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              61 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

Shadow cabinet taught how to be ministers

BYLINE: By George Jones and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 769 words

MICHAEL Howard will seek to demonstrate that the Conservatives are a
government-in-waiting by arranging for members of the shadow cabinet to be given
lessons on how to be ministers.

Lord Tebbit, a former employment secretary, who steered through contentious
trade union reform Bills, and Virginia Bottomley, a former health secretary who
now acts as a headhunter for top public sector jobs, will give advice to
would-be ministers.

With all the parties preparing for a general election next May, Mr Howard is
keen to show that the Tories are ready for power after nearly eight years in
opposition.

However, in an interview to be broadcast tomorrow, Steve Norris, the party's
candidate for London mayor this year, echoed fears of other party Left-wingers
that Mr Howard was taking Tories to the Right by re-appointing John Redwood to
the shadow cabinet.

"Just chasing off to the Right" could leave the Tories overtaken by the Liberal
Democrats, Mr Norris tells the GMTV Sunday programme.

"I think the perception (is) that the reshuffle took the party quite
significantly to the Right, where you add in John Redwood and take out Damian
Green, John Bercow and Julie Kirkbride," says Mr Norris.

As part of the special training sessions, the shadow cabinet will be told how to
deal with civil servants, manage their budgets and keep good relations with
Parliament.

Mr Howard and Mr Redwood, recently appointed to a new role of shadow minister
for de-regulation, are the only two members of the frontbench team who served in
the last Conservative cabinet.

The training seminar for the shadow cabinet will be held at a central London
hotel on Nov 4. In opposition, Labour held similar seminars, as it was even more
inexperienced than the current shadow cabinet.

Before winning power in 1997, neither Tony Blair nor Gordon Brown had previously
served as ministers and found entering government a considerable culture shock.
Although only Mr Howard and Mr Redwood have Cabinet experience, several other
members of the team were middle-ranking ministers in John Major's government,
including David Davis, Nicholas Soames and Tim Yeo.

Others, such as Oliver Letwin, Tim Collins and John Whittingdale, served as
ministerial advisers and so have experience of Whitehall.

The shadow cabinet will be instructed on how ministers' roles are affected by
the Civil Service, the EU, the devolved authorities in Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland, the press and Parliament.

Mr Redwood will brief his colleagues on how to get "control of the diary" when
they become ministers and ensure their lives are not controlled by their civil
servants. He said yesterday it was time to "prepare the team for the realities
of government".

They had to learn that a press release announcing a policy was "just the
beginning of the process" not the end.

"You have then to make sure it is implemented. We need practical people, who get
things done," he said.

Next month's Tory conference in Bournemouth - Mr Howard's first as leader - will
seek to reinforce the impression that the Tories are on the way back to
government.

A redesign of the party's famous Torch of Freedom symbol, to be launched at the
conference, shows a rolled-up sleeve to emphasise the party's determination to
get back into government. The torch also returns to a Union flag colour scheme
of red, white and blue, in a throwback to the original torch design when it was
first launched in 1987 during Margaret Thatcher's heyday.

The redesign was carried out at a cost understood to be between pounds 10,000
and pounds 20,000 by Immediate Sales, a subsidiary of the M & C Saatchi company
where Lord Saatchi, the party co-chairman, is an executive director.

Liam Fox, the other party co-chairman, said reclaiming the flag's colours - "our
party colours from now on" - was a clear riposte to the British National Party's
use of the national flag.

"We will not surrender the colours of our flag to the political fringe," said Dr
Fox. The need to combat the UK Independence Party may also be a factor in the
torch redesign. Dr Fox was reported yesterday to believe that focusing on
immigration and asylum issues was the key way to win back UKIP voters.

He confirmed plans to return the conference to the members after last year's
experiment of focusing on early evening sessions to maximise coverage on
television.

This year's rally resumes the traditional day-time programme of events, with Mr
Howard speaking twice - on Tuesday morning to set out the party's "basic
political beliefs" and on Thursday lunchtime in the traditional
end-of-conference speech.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              62 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

Kilroy sets his sights on Hoon Spy

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Features; review on Saturday Pg. 22

LENGTH: 146 words

Since being sacked from his TV show, Robert Kilroy-Silk has become a mean, lean
destroying machine in the otherwise flaccid world of politics.

First, the smooth former Labour MP bludgeoned his way on to UKIP's European
list, being comfortably elected to Brussels. Then, he started to make moves on
the position of UKIP leader Roger Knapman. Now, Spy hears that Kilroy has got
the Ashfield seat of Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in his sights.

"Kilroy recently confirmed that he'd stand for a Westminster seat in the
Midlands at the election and the signs are that he's going to target Hoon," I'm
told.

"Apart from wanting to go for a high-profile minister, UKIP was the biggest
party there at the Euro-elections and Labour also recently lost control of the
local council.  "Basically, Kilroy reckons he can walk on water right now, and
he wants to take on a big fish."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              63 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 18, 2004

NEW IMMIGRATION SCANDAL; ILLEGALS HIRED AS TRAFFIC WARDENS

BYLINE: By Sarah White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 7

LENGTH: 695 words


AN URGENT crackdown on illegal immigrants working as traffic wardens was ordered
by the Government last night.

In one of their first swoops, immigration investigators seized a group of
parking attendants as the y turned u p for work. The 10 Nigerians were marched
off to the cheers of watching motorists.

The scandal of illegal immigrants in uniforms emerged as the Daily Express
revealed that 272,440 re j ected as y lum seekers are still living here, despite
Government promises to get tough.

Yesterday, MPs criticised the Government's attempts to deal with the GBP
2billion immigration crisis which is likely to be a burning issue with voters in
the general election, expected next year. Senior immigration service officials
were last night planning a series of major raids around the country in a bid to
increase their "strike rate" of only one in five failed asylum seekers being
removed.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis declared: "David Blunkett has lost his grip on
immigration. Under Labour, Britain's immigration system is a shambles."

He spoke out after extraordinary scenes surrounded the arrests of 10 traffic
wardens in Southwark, south London, on Tuesday.

The swoop on the 10 Nigerian men prompted mocking jeers and clapping as
immigration staff moved in on them as they were giving out parking tickets in
the rush hour.

The wardens, who work for Apcoa, a firm contracted to Southwark Council, were
marched off in their uniforms to the delight of motorists.

An onlooker said: "I couldn't believe my eyes. There they were about to start
slapping tickets on cars when police arrived and took them away.

"Everyone was clapping and cheering the cops on but the wardens didn't look too
happy."

The men were marched from their Old Kent Road headquarters and placed in police
custody while immigration checks were carried out.

Investigations revealed the staff have been working with the parking contractor
for a number of years.

AA spokesman Paul Walters said last night: "It is staggering. Motorists deserve
better than to be treated in this disgraceful way by councils who already have
bad press from drivers.

"We would hope that a further investigation is launched into how these
characters came to be employed by Apcoa and I am sure motorists who have
received tickets will be eager to discover whether their tickets will be
refunded."

Last night the Home Office confirmed it has served the men with deportation
papers and said they will be removed from Britain. A spokesman said: "Nine of
the 10 arrested are being detained until they can be deported. A tenth was
convicted of possessing a forged instrument and is now serving six months
imprisonment.

"The arrests are part of a drive to carry out more operations against illegal
workers and are removing more offenders than ever before."

An Apcoa spokesman said: "The tickets this group issued were done correctly and
within our guidelines so we are not cancelling them.

"These people were almost certainly employed by using forged documents.
Unfortunately it is happening with depressing frequency that immigrants apply to
work in the UK illegally as traffic wardens, as a significant number of parking
enforcers are from abroad.

"We have a number of checks we carry out when recruiting staff but obviously
these applications got through. It's very sad."

Parking campaigner Barry Segal said: "If these people got their jobs by putting
in false information then arguably the tickets they issued will be invalid.

"If it was a police officer in that situation then every case they had given
information on would go before the court of appeal."

Tory co-chairman Liam Fox told the Daily Express last night that voters wanted
policies which would "get a grip" on immigration.

He told a meeting at the Commons that immigration had been a "number one"
concern for voters who backed the UK Independence Party in this year's Euro
elections.

Last night he insisted that tackling the issue would win favour not only with
Ukip voters, but with the wider public. He had found it was the issue raised
most often on the doorstep after crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              64 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 18, 2004

2020: Transport: TAKE ISSUES: Will we have solved the big political questions -
education, transport, the economy and immigration - by 2020?

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: Guardian Special Supplement, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 760 words


As they power along eight-lane motorways in their Asian-built electric cars -
set to cruise control, naturally - drivers in 2020 will have plenty of time to
think about how they will pay their next road-charge bill. A monthly envelope
totting up the cost of each car journey will be routine by the end of the next
decade if the government's long-term transport plans are anything to go by.

Satellite tracking technology will enable the authorities to monitor every car
journey - how long it took, how far it was, how fast it was - to calculate a
journey charge of up to £1.30 a mile. Driving in many of Britain's cities will
require a congestion charge; many motorway journeys will be punctuated by toll
booths.

The transport secretary, Alistair Darling, wants to begin levying a price for
road space. The Conservatives support the idea in principle. But without such a
radical change, the future for motorists will be bleak.

Wages, wanderlust and globalisation are fuelling a desire to travel. Professor
Marcial Echenique of Cambridge University reckons that, by 2021, we will all
clock up an extra 1,000 miles a year by road or rail - raising the prospect of
rush hours lasting from 5am until midday. "The congestion will extend, so there
will be no period without congestion," Prof Echenique warned in a study
published earlier this year.

Maverick motoring groups who blow up speed cameras will have more to get
militant by 2020. A government-funded initiative on trial at Leeds University is
examining the possibility of cars having "intelligent" accelerators that resist
when drivers try to break the speed limit. Traditional speed humps are likely to
go in favour of advanced models, which will sink for slower vehicles but stiffen
to impede speeders. Many commuter routes will have high-occupancy vehicle lanes
for cars with at least two people on board. To help pay their five-figure annual
tuition fees, students will be hiring themselves out as passengers.

The alternatives to motoring are likely to suffer from familiar problems.
Network Rail reckons that by 2015 it can bring punctuality on the railways up
from 81% to 91.7%. Says Tony Travers, of the London School of Economics: "There
are some eternal verities about transport policy. One is the maladministration
of the railways and the fact that they're forever teetering on the brink of some
form of Beeching's axe."

On the bright side, both east and west coast mainlines ought to have been
upgraded by 2020, with superior signalling allowing twice as many trains between
London, the north of England and Scotland. But while tilting technology will be
commonplace, there is little indication the money will be forthcoming to push
speeds beyond the present maximum of 125mph.

Commuters in the south-east will benefit from an upgrade to Thameslink and from
high-speed local trains through Kent on the Channel tunnel rail link. The East
London Line will be extended and joined to other suburban tracks to create an
"inner rail ring road" around the capital. But only the most devoted optimists
can confidently predict that Crossrail, the £10bn east-west link across London,
will be built by 2020.

Britain's Victorian railway network will never be likely to match its German or
Japanese rivals in speed and reliability for long-distance journeys. The
disastrous £7.5bn, decade-long struggle to model the west-coast mainline is
likely to cast a shadow over rail policy for decades, deterring ambitious state
schemes.

Aviation could play a much bigger part in domestic transport. In a white paper
on aviation last year, the government backed new runways at Stansted, Heathrow,
Birmingham and Edinburgh. Government figures say the number of passengers using
Britain's airports will leap from 189m to 460m by 2020.

Heathrow will no longer be the world's busiest international airport, losing out
through lack of space to Paris and Amsterdam. But journeys from Bournemouth to
Newcastle or between London and Plymouth could well be on fast, cheap aircraft.

Whether a Labour, Conservative or UK Independence party government is in power
in 2020, the job of secretary of state for transport will still be a hiding to
nothing. The challenges of congestion and pollution will persist. Travellers are
likely to have more choice in how they get from A to B and their journeys will
probably be safer. But whether moving around will be quicker, cheaper or more
reliable than today is deeply doubtful.

Andrew Clark is the Guardian's transport

correspondent


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 18, 2004

BNP secures council seat in London

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 441 words


The far-right BNP won its first council seat in London for more than a decade
yesterday in a byelection marred by allegations of dirty tricks.

It beat Labour into second place by 470 votes in the Goresbrook ward of Barking
and Dagenham, east London.

Its candidate, Daniel Kelley, received 1,072 votes to Labour's 602. The
Conservatives polled 111 votes, the Liberals Democrats 85, Ukip 137 and the
Greens 59.

The BNP had identified the seat, in a largely white working class area, as its
most winnable prospect in the country and sent up to 40 activists to the area
during the campaign.

Nick Griffin, the party leader, joined campaigners at the weekend and is
believed to have been in east London when the result was announced.

The party hopes to benefit from a domino effect when it fights two more London
byelections in the next few weeks.

The election was the first test of public opinion about the BNP since racists in
the party were exposed by a BBC documentary.

But the election was clouded by the controversy about the methods the party was
alleged to have used to drum up support.

It is understood that party canvassers showed potential supporters a leaflet
produced by the local healthcare trust and told them it proved that Somalis were
being given priority. The leaflet is printed in Somali and none of those being
canvassed would have been able to read it for themselves.

A similar leaflet in English merely describes the services available from the
refugee support team.

Another leaflet alleged to have been used by the party suggested that other
borough councils had been given carte blanche to send more people from ethnic
minorities to Barking.

Len Duvall, chairman of the London Labour party, said: "This is a serious loss
and we cannot be complacent about it. We need to . . . work harder to explain to
people what the BNP really stands for.

"I don't believe that many of the people who voted for them really understand
what they are about."

He said there was a sharp fall in the votes won by the Tories and Liberal
Democrats.

John Biggs, the local London assembly member, said: "That the BNP can win a
council seat is a disaster for decent people in Barking and Dagenham. It will
give people outside a negative impression damaging the reputation of the area."

Charles Fairbrass, the council leader, said: "They put out leaflets that were
not true. They have stirred up racial fears, but we don't have racial problems
here."

The last BNP seat in London was won by Derek Beackon in Millwall in 1993, but
was lost eight months later.

guardian.co.uk/politics/farright


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 18, 2004

After Mandelson, Hartlepool looks for a local hero: Labour is not counting on
its 14,571 majority, the Tories could trail behind Ukip, and Respect and the Lib
Dems are the dark horses

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1099 words


Contrary to prejudice in the soft south the mid-week sun shines down fiercely on
Hartlepool from a Mediterranean blue sky. This proudly isolated town of nearly
100,000 people on the northern edge of the Tees Valley is long past its years of
industrial decline when the steel works and shipyards went.

Pockets of unemployment and petty crime, often drug related, persist. But there
are posh eateries and estates where house prices doubled in a year. All this in
sight of sea and rugged hills.

The new marina is full of boats and tourists come to visit the heritage harbour.
This month, though, the town's Grand Hotel is booked out with a different kind
of visitor. In under a fortnight Hartlepool will choose an MP to replace Peter
Mandelson, who has left for Brussels.

The timing, chosen by the government, could not be more delicate. The poll takes
place on September 30, the last day of the Labour party conference and just
before the Tories gather in Bournemouth. The outcome could set the political
mood for the rest of the year.

Local printers are working overtime to leaflet the town for all 10 candidates.
But who will become the town's fourth MP since 1959? According to this week's
Channel 4 News/NOP poll it will be Iain Wright, the very local Labour candidate.

Among those likely to vote he leads his Lib Dem rival, Jody Dunn, by 53% to 20%
with Ukip hard on Tory heels for third place, a potential humiliation for a
party that once came close to taking the seat.

Labour byelection managers have sniffed the wind and are taking no chances. They
are right. A Guardian straw poll on York Road, where at least four of the
contenders have rented empty shops for the campaign, suggests that enough Labour
voters plan to defect or stay at home to dispel any complacency.

Crime and the closure or downsizing of Hartlepool's bustling three-star
hospital, not foxhunting or Iraq, agitate most Hartlepudlians. As Britain's new
EU commissioner Mr Mandelson could prove a good friend to the town. But compared
with the fate of the hospital ("Jody Demands Answers" shouts the Lib Dem
campaign newspaper) his legacy will not be decisive.

An elderly Tory admits "He was quite good, despite being Labour." An NHS manager
says: "He cleaned the town up." "He was a very good constituency MP," confirms a
youthful Labour stalwart.

Such tributes are not unanimous. "He was brilliant, but he had his own agenda"
and "he wasn't working for Hartlepool, he was working for himself," say other
voters, but only when they are prompted.

The factor now at work here is parochialism: a reaction to his fame. The town
wants a local, local MP. The Tory candidate, Jeremy Middleton, an entrepreneur
all the way from Newcastle, capitalises on this feeling. Look how many cabinet
ministers have represented this corner of the north east - Blair next door to
Mandelson at Sedgefield, Mo Mowlam at Redcar, Alan Milburn in Darlington - he
says. Yet it has not had its share of regeneration money compared with the
billions poured into Newcastle/Gateshead 30 miles up the A1(M). And it was
Margaret Thatcher's now-defunct Teesside development corporation which turned
Hartlepool around and built the marina, says Mr Middleton (and others).

Britain's thriving anti-politics zeitgeist offers one striking paradox: it
doesn't prevent a clutch of impressive, if masochistic, candidates coming
forward. One such is Mr Middleton, picked late after defeatist Tory talk and
struggling to save Michael Howard from humiliation here with slogans like
Crackdown on Crime. Mr Middleton wears smart-casual clothes with frameless
titanium specs. He came north to Newcastle 20 years ago. His plumbing firm is
quoted on the stock exchange.

But so strong is the local factor that the man challenging him for third place,
Ukip's Stephen Allison, 44 took his birth certificate to Labour HQ to prove he
was born in the town. Issues like toxic waste, a second possible nuclear power
plant and the famously polluted US "ghost ships" waiting to be dismantled in
Hartlepool dock, lurk in the background and worry Mr Allison as well as
Respect's John Bloom. "But this election is all about who is the most local,"
complains Mr Allison.

Labour's Iain Wright is local. His family uses the hospital too. It will soon
deliver his fourth child. "It's as important to me as to anyone," he says.
"Hospital safe says Blair" (and John Reid) declare campaign leaflets that
"expose" the Lib Dems as soft on petty crime and yobs. It is a Labour technique
refined in the Hodge Hill and Leicester byelections with mixed success.

Jokers

Freckled and cheerful, the Labour candidate looks like one of William Brown's
gang of Outlaws, albeit a disciplined Outlaw who wisely sticks to the New Labour
line. Mr Wright is likely to be the next MP. But there are two significant
jokers in the pack. One is Respect's ex-Labour Mr Bloom, as local as anyone (but
not saying so), liked and respected as Hartlepool's anti-nuclear, pro-hospital
campaigner.

A former care worker, his small team ("our 30 experienced local activists are
more than Labour or the Lib Dems can muster") call him a secular saint. In his
York Road office he talks with thoughtful despair about the party he left. Dillu
Miah, a Muslim taxi driver, will defect from Labour to Mr Bloom because of Iraq.
But there are barely 500 Muslim votes in Hartlepool.

A more potent threat is poised by the Lib Dem's Ms Dunn. A family court
barrister, 35, multi-lingual and a mother of four, she has worked in Hartlepool
for six years. That may neutralise her London origins and - worse - her
residence in a village just outside Hartlepool's rival, Darlington.

Ms Dunn seems less at ease close-up than her rivals. It may be because Labour is
faking outrage over a reckless attempt at humour on her website. "We began to
realise that everyone we met was either drunk, flanked by an angry dog or
undressed," she blithely wrote. "Outrage at candidate's insult to town," cried
Labour. Taken from context, Lib Dems protest.

"The non-Labour vote will coalesce around Jody, she's fantastic," predicts the
Lib Dem elections ace, Lord Rennard. With lots of luck he might be right.

One voter, William Hunter, 59, says he likes to vote for the person, not the
party and is undecided. The smartly-dressed woman hurrying down York Road seems
undecided too: "I don't have any political views, we just vote Labour." But
Labour can no longer rely on tribal loyalty like that. Mr Wright is working as
if his inherited majority of 14,571 is 571. So he should.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

JUDO BROWN BELT CHALLENGES HOMETOWN BOY IN THE FIGHT FOR MANDELSON'S FORMER
TITLE

BYLINE: IAN HERBERT NORTH OF ENGLAND CORRESPONDENT The by-election candidates,
from top: Iain Wright, Labour; Jeremy Middleton, Conservative and Jody Dunn,
Liberal Democrat, canvassing in Hartlepool, Peter Mandelson's former seat
Richard Rayner/NNP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 885 words


THE OWTON Manor sequence dancing group is ideal canvassing territory for Iain
Wright, the young councillor who wants to prove that he won't repeat the
outgoing Hartlepool MP's fabled failure to distinguish between guacamole and
mushy peas.

The dancers meet in a former medical centre where Mr Wright was brought to be
weighed as a baby and is across the road from Gloria's hairdressers, where his
mother used to work - a perfect place to parade his strongest suit: the real
Hartlepool roots that Mr Mandelson lacked.

Yet there was a distinct whiff of sabotage amid the gentle strains of "Viva
Espana" and "Yellow Submarine" as he arrived for his second visit in three
weeks. Some "unexpected competition" had materialised, Mr Wright, defending the
seat for Labour, was discreetly informed. An unanticipated rival dance session
across town had reduced the attendance here to a paltry dozen. He circulated
briefly and left without a dance.

The Liberal Democrats insisted this was not a political conspiracy, though such
tactics would not have been out of keeping with the vitriolic nature of this
by-election campaign.

Such is the enmity between the Labour and Liberal Democrat camps, whose campaign
offices are on the same street, that police had to be called last month when Mr
Wright's team gatecrashed his rival's national pensions policy launch.

Further dirty tricks, enough to make the Prince of Darkness blush, have included
anti-Liberal Democrat placards (featuring dead birds of freedom) hung opposite
their office, and black propaganda denigrating the character of the Liberal
Democrat candidate, Jody Dunn. An extract from her daily internet diary was
published in which "Jody Come Lately" - as Labour like to call her - described
meeting voters in one street who were all "either drunk, flanked by an angry dog
or undressed".

The tactics illustrate the threat that Ms Dunn, 35, poses to Labour's 40-year
hold on the seat. Four months after the Liberal Democrats' seizure of Newcastle
council (after another 40-year Labour run), the party is ebullient about the
chances of Ms Dunn, a barrister and mother-of-four, repeating the by-election
successes of Brent East and Leicester South.

Ms Dunn's clipped accent may not be true Hartlepool like Mr Wright's - who
describes his mother and grandmother as "mam" and "nana" - but her background is
certainly more exotic than her adversary's accountancy career with Touche
Deloitte. She is the first fluent Finnish speaker, Finnish radio DJ and judo
brown belt to stand for Parliament in Hartlepool, and her seven years as a
family law barrister in child abuse and custody cases on the North-east circuit
suggest some knowledge of local life.

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat campaign strategist behind the party's
successes in Brent East and Leicester South, concedes that her good looks do not
appear to be doing much harm either. "She's - how shall we say - strikingly
different and it helps with recognition on the streets," he said.

The town's elected mayor, Stuart Drummond - whose elevation to office two years
ago in the guise of the local football club mascot, "H'Angus the Monkey", proves
that anything can happen in Hartlepool elections - claims that Labour has
pinched several of his ideas, including the "From the town, for the town" slogan
he was elected on. "People are sick of the back-biting and sick of the
candidates saying how lousy the town is," Mr Drummond said.

An NOP poll for Channel 4 News suggests that the Liberal Democrats (22 per cent)
pose a bigger threat to Labour than the Conservatives (11 per cent), who are
represented by Jeremy Middleton, a wealthy businessman who made his money by
floating his 12-year-old Newcastle plumbing company.

The Conservatives' pursuit of an anti-Liberal Democrat crime agenda on Thursday
proved how much they fear a humiliating third - or even fourth, if UKIP
performs. Their cause was not helped when their 2001 candidate recently admitted
they could not win. At the Owton Manor dance, there was evidence that this port
has grown to like having a charismatic MP to put it on the map.

"People knocked Mandelson and he should have been here more but at least
everyone knew where he was from," said Margaret Scott, 66. "The Liberals
certainly got a lot of signs up and that makes a change. Maybe they'll get in
this time."

David Royal, 74, agreed that "the days of your father telling you to put a cross
by Labour" were over. "It's down to what they talk about. I'm still undecided,"
he said.

Labour's decision to time the election at the end of its party conference on 30
September has handed Ms Dunn a good canvassing weapon - the promise that she can
be "kicked out" if she has not performed by the time of the general election.

But she has considerable ground to make up, according to the NOP poll, which
placed Mr Wright on a comfortable 53 per cent. Lord Rennard, who is pursuing
every Tory voter he can find to achieve the 22 per cent swing from Labour he
needs, claims his party has more support at this stage than it did in either
Brent or Leicester.

In the final reckoning, Mr Wright's most useful attribute might be an experience
of close finishes. He won his seat on the local council in 2001 by a margin of
three votes.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              68 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

Tories cry foul over Hartlepool campaign airtime

BYLINE: David Charter, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 404 words


THE Conservatives raised the stakes yesterday in a battle with the BBC by
rejecting a compromise over its political coverage in the build-up to the
Hartlepool by-election.

Senior corporation figures had offered to balance coverage of the last day of
the Labours conference -the day of the poll -after the Tories complained, The
Times understands.

But Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, rejected the deal and called instead for
equal airtime for main opposition parties throughout both weeks of the Labour
and Liberal Democrat conferences.

Dr Fox first wrote to the BBC this week, arguing that, under election
legislation, broadcasters must devote the same time to the main parties in the
run-up to a ballot.

He acknowledged that it was not a problem of the BBC's making and is furious
that Labour called the byelection for the last day of its conference -guaranteed
to provide four days of solid media coverage of the party's policies. The Tory
conference is the following week.

As Michael Howard made his first visit to Hartlepool yesterday, Dr Fox released
a letter thanking the BBC for some of its suggestions but calling for more
concessions.

He wrote: "On the issue of live coverage of the conferen-ces themselves, it is
unaccept-able that you do not plan any measures to build in comment by the other
parties. There is thus no opportunity for those parties to offer their rightful
response. It is essential that, throughout the Liberal Democrat and Labour Party
conferences, there is balancing comment from the other main parties contesting
Hartlepool." Dr Fox called for an immediate response.

Mr Howard's visit came three days after a poll showed the Tory candidate
trailing on 11 per cent to Labour on 52 per cent, the Lib Dems on 27 per cent
and the UKIP on 10 per cent. Mr Howard said: "We have a brilliant candidate in
Jeremy Middleton and are fighting a strong campaign; it is only the
Conservatives that can get things done to tackle issues that people care about."

His visit came a week after Mr Blair went to Hartlepool and pledged that the
future of the town's hospital was secure. But last night the Lib Dems released a
parliamentary answer showing that the future of the hospital remained under
review.

* Result at general election 2001: Peter Mandelson (Lab), 22,506 votes; G.
Robinson (C) 7,935; N. Boddy (LD), 5,717; A. Scargill (Soc Lab) 912. Lab
majority: 14,571


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 17, 2004, Friday

FOOTBALL: DON'T BANIK! THE BORO DEADLY DUO CALM EURO NERVES;
 BORO 3 BANIK OSTRAVA 0

BYLINE: SIMON BIRD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; SPORT; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 622 words

HIGHLIGHT: HASSELBAINK celebrates his opening goal; MARK OF DISTINCTION: Boro
striker Mark Viduka proves what a top signing he is by firing home the home
side's second goal last night


MIDDLESBROUGH have waited their entire 128-years of existence to play their
first European match - and they've found a strike pairing to scare the whole
continent.

In Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and Mark Viduka, Boro have got a partnership which
looks full of goals and the pair proved it last night with the strikes that gave
Boro a winning start on their European debut.

Hasselbaink opened the scoring and Viduka weighed in with a double to take the
pair's total to nine for the season. The UK Independence Party would not have
enjoyed being at the Riverside Stadium last night as seldom have so many people
been so excited about being in Europe.

Middlesbrough's attitude towards the UEFA Cup has been a refreshing change and
while most clubs would rather not be in Europe's equivalent of the Carling Cup,
the Teessiders are delighted.

But then nobody dare say a bad word about the Carling Cup in these parts, as it
was winning that trophy which provided Boro with their first passport into
Europe.

The fans expected a comfortable win on the back of Boro's best-ever start to a
Premiership season. Boro boss Steve McClaren had tried to dampen their
expectations and he had warned that the Czech champions would be no pushovers.

Banik, who lost to Bayer Leverkusen in the qualifying round of the Champions
League, were as good as his word as they caused Boro a few anxious moments early
on.

Skipper Radek Latal hit a right-foot shot from 30 yards which Mark Schwarzer
touched over his bar at full stretch before Martin Cizek just failed to nod home
Maroslav Matusovic's hook across the goal.

On a night of firsts, Frenchwoman Corinne Lagrange was running the line and the
assistant referee did not endear herself to the home fans when she flagged Jimmy
Floyd Hasselbaink for a marginal offside.

Middlesbrough slowly began to find their stride, spurred on by Slovakian Szilard
Nemeth.

The striker, who was playing on the right wing, turned beautifully after
receiving the ball from from Stuart Parnaby in the 24th minute and forced a
great save from Martin Raska.

Nemeth returned the compliment minutes later when he played Parnaby in on the
right and when the defender's drive was saved by Raska, Mark Viduka got his head
to the ball only to be flagged for offside by Madame Lagrange.

Nemeth continued to shine and he slipped Viduka through, only for the alert
Raska to save the big Aussie's shot. Nemeth apart, Boro's attack had yet to
sparkle and Hasselbaink's disappointing first half was summed up when he blasted
a 30-yard shot high and wide after Zenden had teed him up from a free-kick.

Banik were proving to be more obstinate than many fans had expected and
Middlesbrough were going to have to use some guile to break down their
well-organised defence.

Middlesbrough eventually made the breakthrough on 57 minutes, but their goal had
a slice of fortune about it.

George Boateng's left-foot drive from outside the area hit Nemeth and the
deflection fell invitingly for Hasselbaink to knock home his fourth goal of the
season.

The relief inside the Riverside Stadium was evident and the goal settled Boro
down.

They started to move up through the gears and Zenden burst down the left channel
and hit an angled shot which Raska pushed away.

In the 63rd minute Parnaby linked with Nemeth to feed Viduka and the ex-Leeds
star slotted home his fourth of the season, rapidly followed by his fifth to
give Boro a great chanceof making the next round. MIDDLESBROUGH:Schwarzer,
Parnaby, Southgate, Riggott, Queudrue, Nemeth, Boateng, Parlour, Zenden, Viduka,
Hasselbaink. BANIK OSTRAVA:Raska, Pospech, Dvornik, Besta, Drozd, Latal,
Bystron, Zubek, Cizek, Matusovic, Licka.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              70 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 17, 2004, Friday

Secret Tory tape reveals tough line on asylum

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 606 words


The Tory leadership is preparing a tougher line on immigration and asylum in an
attempt to win back UK Independence Party supporters who dislike foreigners.

Liam Fox, the Conservative co-chairman, told a private meeting on Tuesday night
that it was the "No 1 issue" for the people who gave the UKIP a 16 per cent
share of the vote in the European elections in June. His comments, which were
secretly recorded on tape, come after a series of moves over the summer by
Michael Howard designed to shore up the party's core vote and avoid being
outflanked from the right by the UKIP.

Since the European elections, the Tory leader has shifted his focus away from
public services, with hardline speeches on crime and political correctness. Last
week's Shadow Cabinet reshuffle was seen as further confirmation of a "lurch to
the right" as John Redwood returned to the front bench while a clutch of leading
modernisers departed.

In the recording, which was made at a Conservative Bow Group event in the House
of Commons and later played to The Times, Dr Fox says: "The No 1 issue to get
UKIP voters back to the Conservatives is immigration and asylum. If we had a
tougher line on immigration and asylum they would come back."

He suggested that Europe had merely been a "totemic" issue for UKIP supporters.

"What they meant was foreigners, a lot of them, to be frank. It is acceptable to
say 'I am anti-Europe.' It is not acceptable to say 'I am antiimmigrant.' A
number of them (UKIP voters) say they will come back anyway, a lot of them want
a reason to come back...asylum and immigration -that is by a long way the issue
to get them back to vote Conservative."

During the European election campaign Dr Fox is believed to have been the
driving force behind Mr Howard's attack on the UKIP as "extremists". Aides say
that this strategy backfired because it alienated many natural Tory voters.
Since then, the party leadership has gone out of its way to woo former
Conservatives back into the fold.

Dr Fox told The Times last night that he had not intended to advocate policies
that could play up to any fear of foreigners. But he added: "We have to take
account of the reasons why people vote for other parties.

"You would have to be from another planet not to realise there is a lot of
public disquiet on the issues of asylum and immigration. Of course, we need to
address that." He promised that there would be further explanation and
clarification of such issues at the Tory party conference in Bournemouth this
month.

There has been growing criticism and dismay within the party over the failure to
make any impact on the issue of public services despite spending a seven figure
sum publicising its policies. Although Dr Fox pointed out that the Tories had
launched their "right to choose" campaign on health and education this summer,
he acknowledged: "I never believed we could win on these issues."

Dr Fox used an interview in April this year to give warning that people did not
understand policies such as the "patients' passport" for the NHS. Instead, he
suggested that William Hague had been ahead of his time at the last election by
highlighting issues on asylum and Europe that "voters had not yet come to
comprehend".

Dr Fox's unguarded comments at private events have got him into trouble before.

Four years ago he had to apologise for describing the Spice Girls pop group as
"three dogs and a black bird".

He is, however, widely tipped as a potential successor to Mr Howard after the
next election when his chief rival would probably be David Davis, the Shadow
Home Secretary.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 17, 2004, Friday

Are we ready to be full members of Europe?

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 22

LENGTH: 911 words


The real divide over Europe is not about the euro or the constitution but a more
basic question: do we want to be full members of the European Union? This is a
matter of attitude more than institutions; whether we treat other countries as
allies rather than as potentially obstructive adversaries.

Too often, Europe is discussed in negative terms, even by politicians who are
ostensibly "pro". The implicit theme is that, in Britain, we are pursuing
sensible and successful policies to promote competition and flexbility in the
face of global challenges, while the Europeans are inward-looking, sluggish and
attached to an outdated social model. This analysis of where Europe should be
going is largely right, but ministers frequently give the impression that
Britain alone has the answers. This is not only patronising and tactless, but
also mistaken.

In practice, Britain has many allies over EU reform, and not just the Dutch,
Ireland, the Scandinavians and the new entrants from Central Europe. At the
weekend, I attended the annual meeting of the European Ideas Network, created by
James Elles, a Tory MEP, and sponsored by the centre-right EPP-ED Group. The
three-day meeting involved both national and European parliamentarians.

Speaker after speaker talked about the risks of losing out from globalisation,
specifically the challenges from India and China. Various working groups
highlighted, in language which Gordon Brown could easily have used, the need to
deliver on the Lisbon agenda of completing the internal market, to axe or cut
those areas of EU legislation which inhibit growth, to redefine the European
social model and to cut regulation.

Nor is it just talk. The Berlusconi, Chirac/Raffarin and Schroder governments
are now all pushing through reforms of their welfare, benefit and pension
systems. The Socialists in Spain have also generally stuck to the reformist
agenda of the Aznar Government, while Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, the incoming
Preisdent of the European Commission, has appointed economics and trade
commissioners who are pro-market and free trade.

However, pro-reform governments face serious obstacles. The German Social
Democrats (SPD) have suffered big loses in the autumn round of regional
elections, and will probably do so again in the contest in Brandenburg on
Sunday. However, SPD leaders (if not their voters) and the Christian Democrats
both now accept that the German postwar model needs changing.

Angela Merkel, the impressive leader of the CDU/CSU and likely Chancellor in two
years' time, has put job creation at the top of her priorities. After the
failure to tackle Germany's economic inflexibilites in the Helmut Kohl era, CDU
leaders now accept the case for pruning regulations and simplifying the tax
system. Frau Merkel, predictably, has been compared to Margaret Thatcher, though
in public interviews she has pointedly noted that she would have avoided
opposing German unification.

France is the big uncertainty. President Chirac faces a restless crown prince in
Nicolas Sarkozy, who has tilted in a populist, neo-protectionist direction. The
Socialists are all over the place, with Laurent Fabius last week apeing
Wilsonian opportunism when he said that he may oppose the European constitution
in the referendum next year. France is unlikely to be at the vanguard of reform
over the next year.

However, the generally pro-reform stance of the main centre-right parties in
Europe presents a problem for the British Conservatives. They are now very
Eurosceptic, preoccupied with the alleged iniquities of the EU constitution.
Many of the criticisms are exaggerated or plain wrong, such as the illusory
threat to Britain's seat on the UN Security Council or the idea that we will be
forced to join the euro even without a referendum. However much Michael Howard
says that he wants Britain to remain in the EU, the negative emphasis of the
party's public statements gives the impression that the Tories are anti-Europe.
Of course, many Tories privately do want Britain to leave the EU, or at least
reach some form of accommodation on a referendum on membership with the UK
Independence Party.

In contrast to the prominence of the "rejectionists", with their close links to
the media, those Tories favouring "constructive engagement" with the EU (roughly
two thirds of the MEPs) are on the defensive. With all the noise coming from the
antis raging about the constitution, it is hard to get a hearing for the
undramatic but vital work of arguing for pro-market measures.

Whatever you think about the EU constitution -the fate of which lies in the
increasingly uncertain result of the French referendum -Britain undoubtedly
gains from the EU internal market. Indeed, the most powerful pro-EU speech I
have heard recently came from a Tory MEP. He was arguing the importance of the
talks at the end of this week on the extension of mutual recognition of national
rules and authorisations of operators in services. That could not happen outside
the EU.

Yet, despite the activity of British MEPs of all parties, we remain awkwardly on
the outside. It was revealing to see the Spanish, German, Swedish and Belgian
Christian Democrats warmly greeting each other as part of the same political
family, of which Mr Howard is clearly not a close member. The only British
political leader who might have felt at home is Tony Blair, at heart a
continental Christian Democrat.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 16, 2004

AFGHAN SKYJACK BILL HITS GBP 10M AND YOU PAY

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 307 words


TAXPAYERS have forked out GBP 10million to investigate and house nine
asylum-seeking plane hijackers.

The gun-toting Afghans seized control of a flight from Kabul in February 2000.

They forced the terrified pilots to fly to Stansted airport in Essex.

New figures, revealed yesterday, show how the bills have been mounting since it
touched down.

And there's no end to the fiasco in sight as the men and their families remain
here on benefits four years on.

One MEP last night branded the burden on UK taxpayers as "flatly absurd".

The astonishing cost began with the GBP 2.1m spent by police during the four-day
Stansted stand-off.

The hijackers threatened to blow up the Boeing 727 and the 173 people on board.

After the drama ended peacefully, the men were charged with a variety of
offences.

An initial trial in 2001 collapsed after jurors failed to reach verdicts. The
nine were eventually sentenced to up to five years after a retrial.

But their convictions were later quashed on appeal because of a legal
technicality.

Taxpayers stumped up for GBP 5m for the trials which involved 24 defence
barristers. The men then lodged asylum claims meaning they could not be
deported.

The hijackers' claims were rejected in July but a judge ruled they could not be
sent back to Afghanistan.

They now live in GBP 250,000 fourbedroom semis in Hounslow, West London. Only
one has found work.

The benefits bill for those who remain in the country adds nearly GBP 1m to the
cost.

UK Independence Party MEP Dr John Whittaker said it was unfair that the taxpayer
should be expected to pay out and added:

"The money would be better spent on many things needed here."

Sir Andrew Green, of the thinktank Migrationwatch, added last night: "Cases like
this make a monkey of the British taxpayer."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              73 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 16, 2004, Thursday

Liberty and Stalin have a hand in new Tory logo

BYLINE: David Charter Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 176 words


The Conservatives unveiled a muscular new image in red, white and blue yesterday
with a promise to reclaim the colours of the country.

The redrawn Tory torch is held by a shirt-sleeved forearm which echoes the
Statue of Liberty but is also reminiscent of Stalinist designs to show the
strength of workers.

Liam Fox, the party co-chairman, said that the redesign by a company owned by
his fellow co-chairman Lord Saatchi, spelling out Conservative in capital
letters, showed pride and confidence and would reclaim the national colours from
the British National Party.

But it will also be seen as an attempt to convince voters tempted by the
anti-Europe UK Independence Party that the Conservatives can cater for their
concerns.

Dr Fox said that the logo will appear at a new-style party conference next
month, which will be built around grassroots issues.

"We are not ashamed of our country, which is why we reclaim the colours red,
white and blue. We will not surrender the colours of our flag to fringe
parties," he added.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 15, 2004, Wednesday

Kilroy - a leader who's not waiting

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 131 words

Newly elected UK Independence Party MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk has never been known
for holding a low opinion of his own abilities. But even Spy didn't realise
quite how brazen he could be. When he addressed a Commons Lobby lunch last week,
he signed the visitors' book with the following flourish: "Robert Kilroy-Silk
MEP, UKIP leader de facto, Brussels."

While no one would deny that his profile is indeed higher than that of the
party's actual leader, Roger Knapman MEP, his timing could be deemed rather
insensitive. "Paul Sykes, the businessman who bankrolled the UKIP European
election campaign, has been threatening to pull the plug on his money unless
Kilroy is made leader," I'm told. "If he has described himself as de facto
leader, it could be seen as pretty provocative."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              75 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 15, 2004

Regional assembly battle kicks off

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington, Regional affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 313 words


Campaigning in England's first regional devolution referendum kicked off
yesterday with a robust exchange, minutes after the Electoral Commission
officially designated Yes and No groups eligible for public funds.

Opponents of a proposed north-east assembly, which will be broadly similar to
the Greater London authority, claimed it would be both costly and "powerless".

Supporters of an assembly accused the No camp of whipping up fears, and
maintained that it offered the prospect of decisions being taken regionally
rather than in London - "a million miles away metaphorically", according to
their spokesman, John Tomaney.

Firing the starting pistol for what promises to be a bruising campaign, the
commission chairman, Sam Younger, acknowledged that the November 4 all-postal
contest would also be a dry-run for a future referendum on the euro.

In its first major test, the commission has allocated £100,000 to the Yes 4 the
North East campaign, which has support from several personalities as well as
Labour and the Liberal Democrats, and North East Says No, backed by businessmen
as well as Tories and the UK Independence party.

Spending for each group will be capped at £665,000, including the £100,000; the
groups also qualify for a free mailshot to more than a million households.

If electors vote yes on November 4, the government says a full-blown election
for a 25-member north-east assembly could be held in 2006.

* Labour will retain Peter Mandelson's former seat of Hartlepool, according to
an NOP poll for Channel 4 News yesterday. It puts Labour on 53% - 33 points
ahead of the Liberal Democrats. With byelection successes in Leicester South and
Brent East, the Lib Dems have high hopes. However, the poll is also bad news for
the Conservatives; they were in third place, just four points ahead of Ukip.

MediaGuardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 15, 2004, Wednesday

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS: KENNEDY LAUNCHES MINI-MANIFESTO WITH EYE ON BREAKTHROUGH

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF Charles Kennedy at the launch of the party's draft manifesto
yesterday PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 656 words


CHARLES KENNEDY yesterday declared the Liberal Democrats had the "best
prospects" of an electoral breakthrough for 20 years as he launched his party's
early election manifesto on a platform of "freedom, fairness and trust".

Setting out his "priorities for government", Mr Kennedy declared that "anything
can happen" under the present voting system and said "it would be foolish of me
to have low ambitions" for the next election.

The pre-manifesto paper, designed to capture votes from Labour and the Tories,
included proposals to abolish the council tax and replace it with a local income
tax. This would lead to lower bills for most families and pensioners. But those
on higher incomes and working couples would pay more.

The Liberal Democrats also published their proposals to raise the top rate of
tax to 50p in the pound for those on over pounds 100,000 to pay for the
abolition of tuition fees for students.

They promised to put an extra 10,000 police on the beat, paid for by the
abolition of plans for ID cards. And they pledged free personal care for the
elderly and disabled and pounds 25 a week extra for pensioners over 75.
Yesterday's launch was seen at Westminster as a dress rehearsal for the general
election, where the Liberal Democrats will be viewed as a greater electoral
threat by Labour and the Tories, and will face closer scrutiny of their
policies.

But there was concern yesterday among some Liberal Democrat MPs that the party
needed to improve on "the detail" of its programme after a press conference
where there was apparent ambiguity about some of the party's policies.

There was confusion about the party's stance on Anti-Social Behaviour Orders
(Asbos), which they opposed in a vote in Parliament. Some Liberal Democrat
councils have used the orders as tools to clamp down on "yob culture".

Mr Kennedy indicated that the Liberal Democrats remained opposed to their use
but Mark Oaten, the party's home affairs spokesman, later said some Asbos were
"a useful tool for the police" if used in conjunction with other measures to try
to break the circle of crime.

The Liberal Democrats also faced fresh scrutiny over their tax and spending
plans, including policies to abolish the DTI and business subsidies, and the
impact of its tax plans on ordinary households.

Mr Kennedy rejected the imposition of a formal limit on the share of tax a
government could raise in a Parliament.

He said there were no plans to set an overall tax limit, which would prohibit
the government from raising taxes above a certain percentage of gross domestic
product. Currently the share of national tax is just under 40 per cent of GDP.

But Vince Cable, the party's Treasury spokesman, argued in an essay published
last week that there was "a strong case" for a fiscal rule on the share of tax
in GDP "using present levels as an appropriate base".

"As a first modest step down this road, Liberal Democrats propose to couch their
own expenditure proposals on the basis that any increased spending commitments
should be met by cutting some other area of government spending," Mr Cable wrote
in the Orange Book on "reclaiming liberalism".

Mr Kennedy said he was encouraged by polls showing Liberal Democrats were making
headway in Tory and Labour areas. He said the party's policies already had
proved popular in Brent East and Leicester South where it won safe Labour seats
in two by-elections. "These ideas are already working for us," he said. "As this
Labour government becomes more unpopular, increasingly the challengers are not
the Conservatives. The challengers are the Liberal Democrats."

But a poll for Channel 4 dealt a blow to their quest to overturn a Labour
majority in the forthcoming Hartlepool by-election. The poll gave Labour 52 per
cent, 23 per cent for the Liberal Democrats, 11 per cent for the Tories and 10
per cent for UKIP.

Leading article, page 32

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 15, 2004, Wednesday

Blair intervenes to temper by-election challenge to Labour

BYLINE: David Charter Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 648 words


Labour took a strong lead in the by-election to replace Peter Mandelson last
night after Tony Blair personally stepped in to neutralise the Liberal Democrat
attack.

The poll taken in Hartlepool puts Labour on 52 per cent, ahead of the Lib Dems
on 27 per cent, with the Conservatives clinging to third place on 11 per cent,
just one point ahead of the UKIP.

If the Tories slip to fourth place in a seat where they came second in the
general election, the result is likely to cast a shadow over their party
conference the week after the vote -as Labour managers had hoped when they
called the poll for September 30.

Mr Blair's intervention came when he had to deny that there were any plans to
close or downgrade Hartlepool's hospital after a similar pledge from John Reid
misfired.

The Health Secretary said last week that the hospital would stay open as long as
he remained in the job, but rival parties were quick to point out that Mr Reid
has held five ministerial posts and could be moved at the next election.

Fears for the future of Hartlepool's hospital were stirred by an NHS review. Mr
Blair is only too aware of the sensitivities raised by local hospitals after
Labour lost the safe seat of Wyre Forest in 2001 to Richard Taylor, a campaigner
to save Kidderminster Hospital. The NOP poll for Channel 4 showed that Jody
Dunn, the 32-year-old Lib Dem candidate, has surged past the Tories into second
place but still has a long way to go to overturn Labour's 14,571 majority.

The Lib Dems need a swing of 22.05 per cent to take Hartlepool after managing a
29 per cent swing to win Brent East last year and 21.5 per cent to take
Leicester South in June. But, with Iraq not a significant issue on the doorstep
here as it was in both other victories, Ms Dunn's rivals accuse her of
opportunism for joining the longrunning hospital campaign.

Standing outside Lib Dem headquarters in Hartlepool, which display a poster
declaring "it's been 16 days to save the hospital", the mother of four said that
she would continue to make it her battle cry.

"I genuinely do not trust what Labour has said but, more importantly, the people
of Hartlepool do not trust what Labour has said. I am knocking on doors and they
raise the hospital with me whatever John Reid and Tony Blair have said."

Ms Dunn decided to run an internet diary, or blog, of her campaign experiences
and Labour has gleefully seized upon a throwaway line where she describes some
local residents as "either drunk, flanked by an angry dog or undressed".

In a campaign where candidates believe that their local credentials count for as
much as their policies, Labour put out a leaflet saying: "The Lib Dem from
Darlington has insulted the people of Hartlepool."

Ms Dunn said: "People see the leaflet as negative campaigning and I do not think
this is the way politics should be conducted." Hartlepool-born Iain Wright, 32,
the Labour candidate, visited his old school yesterday to emphasise his own
roots.

Labour decided on a local candidate, fearing a backlash if another London figure
were parachuted in as Mr Mandelson was 12 years ago.

Mr Wright dismissed the Lib Dem threat, saying: "They chose to campaign on the
hospital and they got it wrong.

"The people of Hartlepool are not daft. They know a town of 90,000 deserves a
good hospital. I think this shows an outsider judging the mood of the town
incorrectly." Jeremy Middleton, the Tory candidate and Newcastle businessman,
said that he was exasperated, both by the battle to demonstrate close links to
Hartlepool and the "con" of the Lib Dem hospital campaign.

The 43-year-old said: "We have been backing the hospital campaign, which was a
people's campaign, not a Lib Dem one. But who is going to be here after the
by-election?

"The Liberals are like locusts -they swarm in and they will swarm out again."


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 14, 2004, Tuesday

KILROY SON IN HARVEY NICKS AD

BYLINE: DANIEL BOFFEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 153 words

HIGHLIGHT: SUCCESS: Danny


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk's illegitimate son is to front a national advertising
campaign for posh shop Harvey Nichols.

Danny Beauchamp, 19, lives with mum Hilary in a housing association flat and
uses her name.

He has told his agent and friends he has no wish to cash in on his former TV
host father's fame.

One friend said: "He could make more money, but doesn't want to know about his
dad."

Harvey Nichols said Danny was chosen for the magazine adverts for menswear
because of his "edgy" features.

They had not realised he was Kilroy-Silk's son.

Agency Select Model Management signed Danny after scouts saw him in a market
near his home in Islington, North London.

His multi-millionaire father, 62, was a Labour MP when he had an affair with
Hilary, 54.

He has been married to wife Jan for 41 years and they have two children.

His Kilroy show was axed and he is now Euro MP for UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              79 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 14, 2004, Tuesday

I'm angry, and I'm just getting into my stride

BYLINE: Andrew Billen

SECTION: Features; Times2; 6

LENGTH: 2221 words


Former minister Sir Malcolm Rifkind is to return as an MP after seven years in
the wilderness. Is he a future Tory leader?

Having lost the plot for so long, the Tories will not mind my offering a brief
plot summary. After the failures of a young bald guy and an older bald guy, last
year their party imaginatively leapt a generation and appointed as leader a
slightly less bald 62-year-old. At first Michael Howard's finger-wagging
nastiness was a hit, but his act aged badly and, when he announced that he'd
like retrospectively to withdraw his support for the Iraq war, a nation groaned.
In the European elections the UKIP stole his headlines. In by-elections his
party came third. The latest opinion poll puts the Cons narrowly in front, but
only of the Lib Dems.

Such a plot attracts plotters, and this summer out they crawled. In Notting Hill
young Tories impatiently drummed their fingers in public waiting for old timers
to vacate safe seats. Meanwhile, a frontbench spokesman was overheard in a
restaurant speculating about the next leadership contest, the one that will
follow next year's third successive general election defeat. It would, he said,
be between the Shadow Home Secretary, David Davis (who sat the last dance out,
figuring that one more contest and there would be no party left to lead), the
party co-chairman, Dr Liam Fox, and -wait for it -Sir Malcolm Rifkind.

But wasn't Rifkind lost in space, jettisoned six years ago at the Edinburgh
ballot box? True, but this spring he was selected for Michael Portillo's
ultra-safe Kensington & Chelsea seat. Suddenly he is everywhere: writing about
Iraq in the papers, talking on Channel 4 News about Beslan, and all over next
month's Tory conference, where he is the star attraction on the fringe.

"I'm looking forward to it enormously," says Rifkind, meaning Westminster, not
Bournemouth. "There's a tremendous job to be done."

But by going back, I say, he will also be signing up to a world of rumour and
conspiracy.

"Well, no. I will not sign up to it. It will, no doubt, be part of the political
world, as it always has been and always will be, but I don't intend to add to it
or to contribute to it."

It might help, I suggest, if he told me that he had no intention of standing for
leader. He just looks at me.

"You guys are predictable, if nothing else."

But wouldn't that help?

"I'm not indulging in any exchanges. They're silly. I remember years ago telling
one of your fellow journalists that these are the sort of questions which,
whatever answer you give, somebody concocts an artificial headline out of. Which
you are no doubt planning to do at this very moment."

But we have been talking for more than an hour and he has rejected all my lesser
ideas for his career. A peerage so that he could be a Parliamentary spokesman
right now?

"I don't want to be a peer."

A roving philosopher in the manner of Sir Keith Joseph in the 1970s?

"I'm not that sort of guy."

Perhaps the chairman of a powerful select committee? He doesn't seem very
interested. It certainly doesn't look to me as if he is entering Parliament in
order to be a grandee.

"I'm not a grandee, absolutely not. I'm very happy in about 20 years' time to
evolve into one, if that's what people so wish. No, I'm an activist. I'm
enjoying the rough and tumble. I'm just getting into my stride."

Time, I'd say, to ask in which direction, hypothetically, of course, he might
one day march his party.

He is 58 (in China, he jokes, he'd be of an age to consider his first junior
ministerial job) and seems to have been around for ever without having actually
aged. His is the sort of long, serious face that hits middle age early, then
sticks there. Only the accessories have been updated since the Thatcher years.
His glasses, once horn-rims, are now all glass. When I come upon him at a hotel
near his home in Victoria, he is making notes with a PDA (personal digital
assistant), not a fountain pen. Charisma, recently identified by Portillo as the
sine qua non of leadership, may elude him, but he has in person a vitality and
impishness that you might not expect.

In the 1980s we had lunch together, me a young diarist on The Times, him
Secretary of State for Scotland. As I recall, he gave me a story. Today, when
the hotel lobby turns out to be a bit crowded for our purposes, he says he has
had a reconnoitre upstairs and found a meeting room we might commandeer. We are
soon chucked out, but never mind: he is not the sober-socks Edinburgh advocate
he resembles physically (though he admits that he lacks the natural wit of his
son, Hugo, who writes for this section).

Edith, his wife of 34 years, now struggling with multiple sclerosis, has said
that it will be tough when he is back "in the heart of politics", but worth it
to see him "come alive again". Rifkind, who piled up directorships after his
exit from the Commons in 1997, says he resents the implication he was ever
anything else.

But you see what she means. On the subject of the Prime Minister, he becomes
positively animated.

"In the past two or three years I've become very angry, angrier than I've been
for as far back as I can recollect at what I think Blair and his Government are
doing to this country. Blair is a brilliant politician, but a supremely
incompetent Prime Minister."

Blair had the mandate and economy with which to reform public services but,
after seven years in power and huge increases in funding, "there is bugger-all
to show for it". Then there is the spinning, the "Orwellian double-speak" that
"creates a degree of cynicism and disillusion that damages public life as a
whole". He sticks, too, by what he wrote last month in The Spectator, that
Blair's politicisation of the intelligence services has done them more harm than
Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean did.

My faux-naif suggestion that Blair would have made a good Tory prime minister
consequently receives short shrift. "Blair has a contempt for our constitution.
He has a contempt for learning from the history of this country. He has an
indifference to the nature of Britain as a country. Essentially he sees himself
as a radical."

And Thatcher wasn't?

"No, she wasn't. Thatcher, who had her faults, had enormous respect for the
constitution."

Rifkind was a rarity among Thatcher's ministers: one she never sacked. He was
appointed a junior minister in the Scottish Office when she came to power in
1979 and, after a spell in the Foreign Office, became Scottish Secretary when
George Younger replaced Michael Heseltine in Defence in 1986. He was still in
the post when she was ousted, although he bravely told her to her face he would
not support her in a second round of the leadership contest. John Major made him
Transport Secretary, then Defence and finally Foreign Secretary. His record of
18 years of unbroken ministerial office is shared only by Kenneth Clarke, Lynda
Chalker and Patrick Mayhew. He puts his longevity down to aptitude (he could
make decisions and live with them), to temperament (he is not a worrier) and to
luck (of which he had "an extraordinary amount").

Whether his fellow Scots felt so lucky is doubtful. When Edinburgh Pentlanders
evicted him in 1997, after 23 years as their MP, out went every other Scottish
Tory as well. The nation had lived through the hated poll tax, the closure of
the Ravenscraig steelworks and the Tories' continuing refusal to contemplate
devolution. Thatcher, Rifkind concedes, did not understand the Scottish psyche.

Personally, defeat was "quite therapeutic". After so long ascending political
ladders it was his turn to slither down a snake. It also saved him from the
frustration of hopeless opposition in Westminster and, although he does not say
this in as many words, from being identified with the errors of his youngers. He
admits that he warned William Hague, as the 2001 election approached and he
swung right, to be careful of his language in discussing asylum seekers.

But now, Rifkind seems embarked on a private crusade to identify the
Conservatives with civil rights. He opposes identity cards not simply on the
pragmatic grounds that they will not deter professional criminals and scoop up
"at most the odd illegal immigrant", but on principle.

"I'm a libertarian. I'm concerned about the way in which, in a range of issues,
the traditional freedoms of the British public are being threatened. I'll
explain what I mean. We have a Home Secretary who is the most authoritarian for
many years. There are two aspects of the law-and-order debate. When you are
deciding how to deal with people who have been convicted of a criminal offence I
am all in favour of a tough, no-nonsense approach: zero tolerance, thump them
hard, thump them long, punish them.

"But I am increasingly disturbed by this Government's erosion of the rights of
the citizen to be protected from the risk of wrongful imprisonment or wrongful
conviction. So you have people at the moment locked up in Belmarsh, detained
without a trial, for almost two years now, perhaps more than two years. You have
erosions of the rights of people accused of criminal offences in the courts."

This sounds unlikely political turf for the Tories. Has he talked to Davis, the
Shadow Home Secretary, about any of this? "Not specifically, no."

The issue on which Rifkind, almost alone among senior Tories, could really cause
the Government trouble is Iraq. One blessing, I suggest, of being out of
Parliament was that he did not have to pretend to be in favour of America's
pre-emptive attack.

"But I objected not because I was outside the House of Commons, but because of
the opinions I happened to have on the subject."

So he would have resigned from the front bench? "My views are well known. Draw
your own conclusions."

Howard, of course, did not quit Iain Duncan Smith's team and was later ridiculed
when he said that had he known what he knows now, he would have opposed the war.

"Ridiculed by Tony Blair, sure. What would you expect from Tony Blair?"

And the press. "Well no, you are being unfair. I happen not to agree with the
war, but my party took an honourable position. It could have said 'Here's a
government going into an unpopular war' -because it was obvious that it was
going to be unpopular with the public -'therefore we will oppose them and try to
win votes on that basis'. In fact, it did what the public often said it wants
politicians to do. It came to a judgment as to what was, in its view, in the
national interest.

And its judgment was, under Iain Duncan Smith, that the Government deserved
support."

Their judgment was poor, though?

"Each person will come to their own view on that. This is an issue that
transcends party politics."

Should the Tories not then hit Blair hard on it in the election?

"What Howard's doing is absolutely right. He's saying 'Look, you know, you have
let down Parliament. You have let down your intelligence services. And that
needs to be justified'."

But the Opposition is meant to scrutinise the Government. Instead it let it get
away with the dodgy dossier and the 45-minute claim -and it is no good saying
that no one doubted them because perfectly reasonable people such as Rifkind
did.

"People have different judgments based on their own experience. I'm one of the
relatively few people not in the Government who has actually seen intelligence
material. Because I received reports from MI6 every day for five years when I
was Defence Secretary and Foreign Secretary, I am aware from personal experience
how these reports always have health warnings and always make it clear how
unreliable a lot of this information is."

So if by spring we still feel strongly about Iraq, how should we vote? "Against
the Government." And for a party that also supported the war? "The Conservative
Party is not responsible for any misrepresentation."

I just think, I say, it will be hard for Howard to capitalise -as hard, maybe,
as for John Kerry in the US.

"That's as may be. Time will tell. We will see." His view is that things are
looking up for the Conservatives. Labour has got into the habit of losing
elections in the past couple of years. It has lost half its party membership. In
contrast, under Howard, Tory ranks have swelled by 40,000.

"I don't think anybody had any doubts about William Hague's ability and taking
on that job at a very young age, he made a hugely impressive contribution, but
the public, in their wisdom, as with Duncan Smith, concluded at a very early
stage that he was not going to be prime minister. One of the very important
developments of Howard's leadership is that that issue has been resolved. Nobody
questions that Howard could be an excellent and experienced Prime Minister."

When I think of the Tories, their policy road maps and passports, their muffed
reshuffles, their once slimline but now expanding Shadow Cabinet and the
constant, ambient sound of leadership mutter, I think of the Genesis space
probe, which had been out of sight and out of mind for as many years as the
Conservatives. If Rifkind is the amenable, decent, liberal parachute that
prevents a crash landing, I'd be, to put it mildly, surprised. But, then, I'm
just a predictable journalist.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 13, 2004

MP WHO RESIGNED OVER SEX SCANDAL IS HAVING ANOTHER AFFAIR BEHIND WIFE S BACK;
THE SLEAZE MERCHANT RETURNS. . .

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  33

LENGTH: 563 words


A FORMER Tory MP at the centre of a sex scandal has been caught cheating on his
wife again, it was claimed yesterday.

Piers Merchant had a much-publicised relationship with a 17-year-old blonde
nightclub hostess, Anna Cox, in 1997. The pair were photographed canoodling in a
park in the run-up to a general election.

Amid mounting anger over sleaze in politics he admitted the affair, went back to
his wife, and resigned as MP for Beckenham, Kent.

Merchant, 53, now chief executive of the UK Independence Party, is said to be
having "another torrid" affair behind his wife's back - this time with
41-yearold property consultant Caroline Bew.

And once more he has been photographed enjoying a lingering kiss in a public
place.

He was apparently spotted keeping a rendezvous with her in the grounds of a
cathedral where he spoon-fed her chocolate mousse.

Ms Bew later told a downmarket Sunday newspaper: "I'm no mistress, it's much
more than that.

"I've been Piers' girlfriend for four years. He's promised me he's divorcing his
wife Helen. He's asked me to marry him and have his baby.

"I'm even living in his London flat. He persuaded me to move in three months
ago. He's always told me his marriage was over and I've had the role of his wife
since we met. It's time the truth was told. We have nothing to be ashamed of."

Merchant is still married and his wife and two children still live at the family
home in Kent.

Ms Bew said the pair met when they both worked at the London Chamber of
Commerce. They became friendly over drinks in the pub and within six months were
lovers.

Ms Bew went on: "Right from the start Piers pursued me relentlessly. He told me
his marriage was dead and claimed he'd only had sex with his wife twice in the
last 14 years.

"Obviously he's a highly sexual man.

It's been a passionate relationship. . . .

"At home together I cook his vegetarian meals. But he brings me breakfast in bed
- boiled eggs and toast. And he's always assured me his marriage is a sham. It's
me who's bought his underpants, the briefcase and his Russell and Bromley shoes.

"Together we chose the Hugo Boss suit he wears for business meetings.

And I even bought his casual clothes.

His favourites are Gap jeans."

She added: "I've broken my heart waiting for him. I want this relationship
respectable and in the open."

When he was asked about the relationship, Merchant said: "No comment."

But he has spoken in the past of the temptations facing "successful" people in
the public eye. He said: "In other fields there are not always so many
opportunities to meet new people.

"If you're in a limited social environment the chances of having an affair are
less likely than if you're in the media or politics. In those circumstances you
don't have to go out looking. Things just happen. That's what happened to me
anyway."

In 2002, Merchant wrote an article about the exposure of his 1997 fling and
denounced former Prime Minister John Major's Back to Basics campaign.

He wrote: "From then on, every Tory politician was a marked man or woman.

The defence that a politician is entitled to a private life was destroyed on the
grounds that it was more important to expose hypocrisy."

He added: "Back to Basics was a rope round all our necks and there was no
escape. Slowly, it was doomed to tighten."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              81 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 13, 2004

THE SLEAZE MERCHANT RETURNS. . .

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 284 words


A FORMER Tory MP at the centre of a sex scandal has again been caught cheating
on his wife, it was claimed yesterday.

Piers Merchant had a much publicised relationship with a 17-year-old blonde
nightclub hostess in 1997.

The pair were photographed canoodling in a park in the run up to a general
election.

Amid mounting anger over sleaze in politics he admitted the affair, went back to
his wife, and resigned as MP for Beckenham, Kent.

Merchant, now chief executive of the UK Independence Party, is now said to be
having another "torrid affair" - this time with 41-year-old property consultant
Caroline Bew.

And once more he has been photographed enjoying a lingering kiss in a public
place.

Ms Bew later told a Sunday newspaper: "I'm no mistress, it's much more than
that.

"I've been Piers' girlfriend for four years. He's promised me he's divorcing his
wife Helen. He's asked me to marry him and have his baby.

"It's time the truth was told.

We've nothing to be ashamed of."

Ms Bew said the pair met when they both worked at the London Chamber of
Commerce.

She went on: "Right from the start Piers pursued me relentlessly.

"He told me that his marriage was dead and claimed he'd only had sex with his
wife twice in the last 14 years."

Asked about the relationship, Merchant, 53, said: "No comment."

But he has spoken in the past of the temptations facing people in the public
eye.

He said: "If you're in a limited social environment the chances of having an
affair are less likely than if you're in the media or politics.

"In those circumstances you don't have to go out looking.

Things just happen.

"That's what happened to me anyway."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              82 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 13, 2004

Tory modernisers bite back

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 441 words


Michael Howard was given a blunt warning yesterday that the Tories were "doomed
to permanent opposition" unless they reached beyond a hard core of voters.

In a sign of unease among Tory modernisers, one of the frontbenchers forced out
last week called on Mr Howard to unveil "easily understood policies" and to
resist the "core votes" strategy of the William Hague era.

Damian Green, who stood down as shadow transport secretary after being offered a
lowly job in last week's reshuffle, wrote in yesterday's Observer: "The real
problem for the Conservative party has been obstinately the same since 1997: how
can we persuade more than 30% of the electorate to vote for us? If we can't, we
are doomed to permanent opposition under a first-past-the-post system, however
enthusiastic that 30% may be about us."

Mr Green, a Downing Street adviser under John Major who was elected MP for
Ashford in 1997, wrote that he was "puzzled" at speculation that Mr Howard
planned to appease the UK Independence party.

"If you start edging towards Ukip, you may well pick up some extra support on
one side, but you will shed support on the other - and the last time I looked,
the Liberal Democrats were rather better supported than Ukip . . . So
appeasement of Ukip would do more harm than good."

Mr Green's intervention came amid reports that John Bercow, another moderniser
sacked last week, had angrily confronted Mr Howard when he was told he was
losing his post as shadow international development secretary.

The Tory leadership says the two men fell foul of Mr Howard not because they
were modernisers but because they failed to demonstrate sufficient loyalty.

However, the handling of such leading modernisers, in cluding the media-friendly
Julie Kirkbride, the former spokeswoman for culture, media and sport who
resigned after being demoted, has raised questions about Mr Howard's management
skills.

In the space of a year Mr Green has gone from being a promising frontbencher to
an angry backbencher. Mr Bercow, meanwhile, can be a testing figure, but he is a
highly talented politician.

John Redwood, the rightwing former minister whose return to the shadow cabinet
dismayed the modernisers, told Sky News that the modernisers had not been
"booted out".

"I hope they will come back," he said. "I'm sure there are roles for them in the
modern Conservative party.

"I'm not a rightwing figure. I'm a person who believes in commonsense
Conservatism and is always looking to the future and listening to the
electorate. I'm the original moderniser. I'm the one who, in the 1990s, said,
'No change, no chance'."


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 13, 2004, Monday

THE MONDAY INTERVIEW: JOHN REDWOOD SHADOW SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEREGULATION:
HE'S BACK AS RED-TAPE MAN, THE UNLIKELIEST SEX SYMBOL IN THE UNIVERSE

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT John Redwood returned from the
wilderness after showing he was a match for Robert Kilroy-Silk Toby Madden

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1442 words


WHEN THE phone rang in John Redwood's office last week, his staff were
astonished to find Michael Howard's secretary on the phone asking for an urgent
meeting.

The MP for Wokingham dutifully trotted round to the Conservative leader's House
of Commons office, not suspecting anything momentous might be up, since there
had been no rumours of a Tory reshuffle.

Mr Redwood said he was surprised when he sat down and was promptly offered a
front-bench job as the shadow Secretary of State for Deregulation.

"Instead of it being a normal meeting where he said: What do you think of the
show so far?' it was: John I would like you to join the Shadow Cabinet'," he
says. "I was surprised. But I had always told him I was willing to help in any
sensible way."

Mr Redwood relates the job offer in the calm, measured tones he has become
associated with. He does not jump for joy or break into a broad grin but his
eyes betray a flicker of content.

Being back on the front bench clearly means a lot to him, after he was
unceremoniously sacked four years ago by William Hague on the grounds that he
was too stark a symbol of the ancien Tory regime.

Since last week, many Tories have drawn the same conclusion: that bringing Mr
Redwood back is a reminder of the days of John Major. But the MP thinks the
accusation is unfair and "complete nonsense". He points out that, in 1995, after
Mr Major issued his famous "back me or sack me" threat, it was he who resigned
from the Cabinet in order to stand - unsuccessfully as it turned out - against
Mr Major on the platform of "no change, no chance".

"I find it very strange that they should then think I am too associated with a
government the public didn't like when I was the one prominent Conservative who
resigned my job to say the Government needed to change," he said. "Far from
being a figure from the past who is living in the past I am always thinking
about the future and am very much on the agenda of the day."

During his four years in the wilderness Mr Redwood was a prolific speaker, and
issuer of pamphlets, on subjects ranging from Europe, to government red tape.
Last week, when he was summoned to Mr Howard's room, he was putting the
finishing touches to a glossy blueprint for building a "new city" in the Thames
Corridor.

"People said I was dead when I was an extremely active Conservative," he says.
"They said I had suddenly come back, but I hadn't gone anywhere."

While a backbencher, Mr Redwood was continually on his feet in the Commons
chamber delivering withering interventions that cast a shadow over many
front-bench Tories. He was widely credited with duffing up an embattled Stephen
Byers to the point that his job as Trade and Industry Secretary became
untenable.

With his penchant for dark, polo-neck jumpers and his preternaturally calm
demeanour Mr Redwood has the air of a Commons assassin with his silencer at the
ready if an unsuspecting minister should need bumping off. Perhaps this is one
of the reasons Mr Howard has recalled him to his team so close to a general
election. The party leader certainly wants Mr Redwood to field more media
interviews to "put the overall case".

Mr Redwood may be the master of the media soundbite, but he is also a thoughtful
intellectual who, as a schoolboy, rang bells with his scary level of
intelligence. At Oxford, he took a first in history and, at 21, was a Prize
Fellow at the prestigious All Souls College where, in his free time, he wrote a
doctoral thesis.

While Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister, he headed her policy unit at Number
10 where deregulation was one of his many interests. His new role, which he
describes as "creative", will allow him to develop ideas on slimming down
government which he has been honing for many years. "I am looking forward to it.
It is an outgoing, positive, future-looking role, and I think it will capture
the mood of the times," he says. "So many people in this country feel hopelessly
bossed around."

Mr Redwood's war on state "bossiness" will begin with the economy, Europe and
local government. The last, he says, is overstaffed and inefficient in its use
of public cash.

He also has his eye on the "overstaffed" Department of Trade and Industry, and
on the Environment Agency which he says costs a lot but "never stands up to the
Government over planning decisions". On Europe, Mr Redwood will have the
opportunity to flex his Eurosceptic muscles and work out ways to slash
"interfering" directives from Brussels.

Many of Mr Redwood's cabinet colleagues believe his recall may be motivated in
part by the potential threat from the United Kingdom Independence Party which
cost the Tories votes in June's European elections. Back then Mr Redwood harried
UKIP's new front-man, Robert Kilroy Silk, in a string of face-to-face media
interviews to the point that the former talk-show host accused the Tory MP of
stalking him.

But some members of the Shadow Cabinet fear his new role will allow him to range
onto their territory. He denies such "turf wars" will occur. "I am not trying to
take away from colleagues their bit of the limelight. It will be a success for
me if they all stand up and launch their deregulatory bits and pieces and I will
glow in the light of their jobs well done," he says.

Mr Redwood's ability to deliver such logical arguments in collected tones has
led to routine comparisons with the emotionless Mr Spock of the starship
Enterprise. Mr Spock is regarded by most Trekkies as a hero: they point out,
with enthusiasm, that he was never allowed to wear the Vulcan pendant
symbolising "pure logic" because he failed to achieve the state of Kolinahr
where all emotion is renounced and shed.

But Mr Redwood looks wounded at mention of his Vulcan epithet. He gulps and says
the comparison is "tedious". He goes on: "I think it is boring now and it has
gone on for too long," staring intently at his teacup. "I used to find it
hurtful, now I just think it is silly. It doesn't tell the public very much."

In general, the press that greeted Mr Redwood's return to the Shadow Cabinet was
unkind: television stations delighted in repeating embarrassing footage of him
mouthing the words of the Welsh national anthem when he was Welsh Secretary. "No
other politician has to face 12-year-old film. I think that's a bit unfair. But
life is unfair," he counters stoically.

But most commentators agree it is simplistic to turn Mr Redwood, an able and
clever politician, into an easily parodied cartoon figure. In fact, his return
to front-bench politics has arrived on the back of renewed popularity and with a
certain unpredictability. In the past year, he has not only divorced his wife of
29 years, Gail, from whom he had been separated, but he has formed a
relationship with Nikki Page, a vivacious former Vogue model who has been his
researcher for six years.

The two of them even took part in a Hello! magazine photoshoot where Ms Page, a
former Tory councillor for Westminster was featured in several outfits.

Mr Howard may not have been aware of it when he promoted him, but Mr Redwood,
who also takes care to dress smartly - appearing for the interview in a
turquoise shirt and tie - is also something of a sex symbol among women of a
certain age. He apparently receives frequent requests for signed photos from
women - including Labour voters - who declare him to be "elegant".

Mr Redwood, 53, is happy to send the photos. He has received several hundred
letters and e-mails in the past few days congratulating them on his new job. His
fan club on the right still see Mr Redwood as a potential Tory leader. He twice
stood unsuccessfully for the leadership - once against Mr Major and then against
William Hague in 1997 - and there are rumours he may consider a third bite. And
although he insists repeatedly "I am not going for the leadership" - he refuses
to rule it out under any circumstances.

HIS CV

Born: 15 June, 1951, in Dover, Kent

Education: Masters and doctorate in philosophy at Magdalen and St Antony's
Colleges, Oxford

1972-1987 Fellow of All Souls' College, Oxford

1980-1983 Investment director, NM Rothschild

1983-1985 Head of the Prime Minister's Policy Unit

1987- MP for Wokingham

1989-1992 Minister for Corporate Affairs, Department of Trade and Industry (DTI)

1992-1993 Minister for Local Government and Inner Cities

1993-1995 Secretary of State for Wales

1999-2000 Shadow Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the
Regions

2000 Head of the Parliamentary Campaigns Unit

2004- Shadow Secretary of State for Deregulation

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               September 12, 2004

Now Howard has to go for the jugular. . .

BYLINE: WILLIAM REES-MOGG

SECTION: FB; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 1197 words


Election campaigns have always been a professional business. In Benjamin
Disraeli's picture of Tadpole and Taper, in his 1845 novel Sybil, one
conversation went like this: 'It will never do to throw over the Church
Commission,' said Mr Taper. ' Commissions and committees ought always to be
supported.' 'Besides it will frighten the saints,' said Mr Tadpole. 'If we could
get him to speak at Exeter Hall were it only a slavery meeting that would do.'
'It is difficult,' said Taper. 'He must be pledged to nothing not even to the
right of search. Yet if we could get up something with a good deal of sentiment
and no principle involved; referring only to the past, but with his practised
powers touching the present. What do you think of a monument to Wilberforce?'
This is no mere parody; Disraeli knew what he was describing and, after all, he
went on to be Prime Minister. Yet now there is a feeling that election
professionalism has been taken too far, particularly in the United States and,
worst of all, that the public have seen through it.

But I am not sure that the Conservative Party has yet taken professionalism far
enough.

The Americans are certainly ahead of us in this professionalisation of politics,
for the same reason as they are ahead of us in so many other technologies: much
more money is spent.

Most of the money goes on television advertising, on which a billion dollars or
more may be spent in the course of a presidential campaign. Some of it, however,
is also used to hire expensive consultants. They are usually party ideologues
with a genuine concern for their party's success. Some are hired guns who will
help a Democrat to get elected with as much zeal as a Republican, if the fee is
right.

At the head of their profession stand the great advisers on presidential
campaigns. Lee Atwater, who believed in attack advertising, helped George Bush
Snr to be elected in 1988. Atwater died prematurely and Bush lost the 1992
election to Bill Clinton, partly as a consequence.

Clinton himself did not invent the phrase 'It's the economy, stupid,' which
encapsulated the thrust of his 1992 campaign. That is attributed to James
Carville, who combined the roles of chief of the Clinton war room, head
strategic adviser, and 'attack dog'. Mr Carville never pretended that it was
possible to combine his attack role with personal political popularity. So long
as he damaged the president's opponents he did not care if people hated him.

And most Republicans did.

President Clinton's second term was rescued, and his 1996 re-election was
secured, by the advice of Dick Morris, who later came to London and had talks
with the Conservative Party which led to nothing.

In 2003 Morris came back to London and advised the United Kingdom Independence
Party. He gave them such good advice that they doubled their vote in the
European elections this year. He is a very bright operator, with a built-in
location-finder for the opposition's jugular.

In 2000 and again this year President George W. Bush has benefited from the
strategic advice of Karl Rove, whose main method is to achieve dominationof the
agenda. In 2004 he has, so far, persuaded American voters that this election is
not about the economy, on which the Democrats are running ahead in the polls,
but about Iraq and the war on terror, where Bush leads. He had a remarkable
success in his orchestration of the Republican Convention in New York. 'It's
Iraq, stupid,' seems to have convinced the American people, probably rightly so.

In Britain, Margaret Thatcher used several advisers, of whom the most important
was probably Maurice Saatchi. They helped her to win the elections of 1979, 1983
and 1987; that momentum helped win the 1992 election for the Tories as well.

In 1997, it was time for a change and the Labour machine was at the height of
its effectiveness. The strategy was conceived by the New Labour team Tony Blair,
Gordon Brown, Peter Mandelson, Alastair Campbell, who handled the media, and
Philip Gould, who advised on public opinion.

They used all the techniques, including the projection of Labour's image as a
modernising party, and smears on Conservative sleaze.

Some of the sleaze was real but much of it was no more than the small change of
human frailty.

In 2001, the Labour campaign was again successful but less brilliant.

Indeed the total Labour vote fell by about 20 per cent. Nevertheless, it was
good enough to win the same majority in seats, though a smaller majority in
share of the votes. The same team was still in charge.

At the next election, the Labour team will be very different. Blair and Brown
will still be there, if not on the best of terms. Campbell is gone, and
Mandelson is in Brussels. Gould is available but is now an elder statesman of
the focus-group world in the House of Lords. The balance of influence will be
changed.

This week's reshuffle promoted Alan Milburn to the role of election policy
supremo. He believes that he will be running the election campaign, and perhaps
he will. But even in Thatcher's time, the person who thought he would be running
the campaign could find that he had to fend off his colleagues.

The Labour team for the next election will be less coherent, less experienced
and less powerful than the team which won the two landslide victories in 1997
and 2001. Milburn has a capable reputation but he is not regarded as ruthless
like Mandelson and, in his job, ruthlessness can be an asset.

On the same day the Conservative reshuffle brought two battle hardened
campaigners, John Redwood and Nicholas Soames, into the Conservative Shadow
Cabinet. They belong to different sections of the party. Their views on European
policy are not the same but they share useful characteristics. They are seasoned
troopers who are perfectly comfortable under political fire.

They are tough-minded.

The leadership of the Conservative campaign will depend on the relationship
between Michael Howard and his two party chairmen, Lord Saatchi and Liam Fox,
the Scottish doctor who has the only safe Conservative seat in Somerset.

Maurice Saatchi remains the most gifted political advertising man of his
generation. He knows the advertising business backwards. He knows the basic rule
as well as Karl Rove himself: seize the agenda and keep the message simple.

The election opportunity is there.

The Labour Government is less popular than it was. In Britain, Iraq is a
liability. The Labour election team has lost both its black knights.

The Conservatives won the European election and have been winning local
elections almost consistently since 2001. Even the opinion polls show a swing
back towards the Conservatives, though it is not big enough.

Yet the Conservatives cannot win any by-elections, do not feel popular and their
morale is low. What they need is a simple series of messages, particularly on
tax, crime and Europe.

Rove has made the Republicans' strongest issue the war against terror the
central issue of their whole campaign.

To win their election, the Tories need to get their strongest issues to the top
of the national agenda.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHARPEN UP... MICHAEL HOWARD, PICTURED PROMOTING A CAMPAIGN AGAINST
'KNIFE CULTURE', NEEDS TO BE TOUGH AND RUTHLESS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              85 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               September 12, 2004

Now Howard has to go for the jugular. . .;
REVIEW

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Pg. 59

LENGTH: 1197 words


Election campaigns have always been a professional business. In Benjamin
Disraeli's picture of Tadpole and Taper, in his 1845 novel Sybil, one
conversation went like this: 'It will never do to throw over the Church
Commission,' said Mr Taper. ' Commissions and committees ought always to be
supported.' 'Besides it will frighten the saints,' said Mr Tadpole. 'If we could
get him to speak at Exeter Hall were it only a slavery meeting that would do.'
'It is difficult,' said Taper. 'He must be pledged to nothing not even to the
right of search. Yet if we could get up something with a good deal of sentiment
and no principle involved; referring only to the past, but with his practised
powers touching the present. What do you think of a monument to Wilberforce?'
This is no mere parody; Disraeli knew what he was describing and, after all, he
went on to be Prime Minister. Yet now there is a feeling that election
professionalism has been taken too far, particularly in the United States and,
worst of all, that the public have seen through it.

But I am not sure that the Conservative Party has yet taken professionalism far
enough.

The Americans are certainly ahead of us in this professionalisation of politics,
for the same reason as they are ahead of us in so many other technologies: much
more money is spent.

Most of the money goes on television advertising, on which a billion dollars or
more may be spent in the course of a presidential campaign. Some of it, however,
is also used to hire expensive consultants. They are usually party ideologues
with a genuine concern for their party's success. Some are hired guns who will
help a Democrat to get elected with as much zeal as a Republican, if the fee is
right.

At the head of their profession stand the great advisers on presidential
campaigns. Lee Atwater, who believed in attack advertising, helped George Bush
Snr to be elected in 1988. Atwater died prematurely and Bush lost the 1992
election to Bill Clinton, partly as a consequence.

Clinton himself did not invent the phrase 'It's the economy, stupid,' which
encapsulated the thrust of his 1992 campaign. That is attributed to James
Carville, who combined the roles of chief of the Clinton war room, head
strategic adviser, and 'attack dog'. Mr Carville never pretended that it was
possible to combine his attack role with personal political popularity. So long
as he damaged the president's opponents he did not care if people hated him.

And most Republicans did.

President Clinton's second term was rescued, and his 1996 re-election was
secured, by the advice of Dick Morris, who later came to London and had talks
with the Conservative Party which led to nothing.

In 2003 Morris came back to London and advised the United Kingdom Independence
Party. He gave them such good advice that they doubled their vote in the
European elections this year. He is a very bright operator, with a built-in
location-finder for the opposition's jugular.

In 2000 and again this year President George W. Bush has benefited from the
strategic advice of Karl Rove, whose main method is to achieve dominationof the
agenda. In 2004 he has, so far, persuaded American voters that this election is
not about the economy, on which the Democrats are running ahead in the polls,
but about Iraq and the war on terror, where Bush leads. He had a remarkable
success in his orchestration of the Republican Convention in New York. 'It's
Iraq, stupid,' seems to have convinced the American people, probably rightly so.

In Britain, Margaret Thatcher used several advisers, of whom the most important
was probably Maurice Saatchi. They helped her to win the elections of 1979, 1983
and 1987; that momentum helped win the 1992 election for the Tories as well.

In 1997, it was time for a change and the Labour machine was at the height of
its effectiveness. The strategy was conceived by the New Labour team Tony Blair,
Gordon Brown, Peter Mandelson, Alastair Campbell, who handled the media, and
Philip Gould, who advised on public opinion.

They used all the techniques, including the projection of Labour's image as a
modernising party, and smears on Conservative sleaze.

Some of the sleaze was real but much of it was no more than the small change of
human frailty.

In 2001, the Labour campaign was again successful but less brilliant.

Indeed the total Labour vote fell by about 20 per cent. Nevertheless, it was
good enough to win the same majority in seats, though a smaller majority in
share of the votes. The same team was still in charge.

At the next election, the Labour team will be very different. Blair and Brown
will still be there, if not on the best of terms. Campbell is gone, and
Mandelson is in Brussels. Gould is available but is now an elder statesman of
the focus-group world in the House of Lords. The balance of influence will be
changed.

This week's reshuffle promoted Alan Milburn to the role of election policy
supremo. He believes that he will be running the election campaign, and perhaps
he will. But even in Thatcher's time, the person who thought he would be running
the campaign could find that he had to fend off his colleagues.

The Labour team for the next election will be less coherent, less experienced
and less powerful than the team which won the two landslide victories in 1997
and 2001. Milburn has a capable reputation but he is not regarded as ruthless
like Mandelson and, in his job, ruthlessness can be an asset.

On the same day the Conservative reshuffle brought two battle hardened
campaigners, John Redwood and Nicholas Soames, into the Conservative Shadow
Cabinet. They belong to different sections of the party. Their views on European
policy are not the same but they share useful characteristics. They are seasoned
troopers who are perfectly comfortable under political fire.

They are tough-minded.

The leadership of the Conservative campaign will depend on the relationship
between Michael Howard and his two party chairmen, Lord Saatchi and Liam Fox,
the Scottish doctor who has the only safe Conservative seat in Somerset.

Maurice Saatchi remains the most gifted political advertising man of his
generation. He knows the advertising business backwards. He knows the basic rule
as well as Karl Rove himself: seize the agenda and keep the message simple.

The election opportunity is there.

The Labour Government is less popular than it was. In Britain, Iraq is a
liability. The Labour election team has lost both its black knights.

The Conservatives won the European election and have been winning local
elections almost consistently since 2001. Even the opinion polls show a swing
back towards the Conservatives, though it is not big enough.

Yet the Conservatives cannot win any by-elections, do not feel popular and their
morale is low. What they need is a simple series of messages, particularly on
tax, crime and Europe.

Rove has made the Republicans' strongest issue the war against terror the
central issue of their whole campaign.

To win their election, the Tories need to get their strongest issues to the top
of the national agenda.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHARPEN UP... MICHAEL HOWARD, PICTURED PROMOTING A CAMPAIGN AGAINST
'KNIFE CULTURE', NEEDS TO BE TOUGH AND RUTHLESS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              86 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 12, 2004

Tories 'doomed' if they woo Ukip

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 398 words


THE Tories are 'doomed to permanent opposition' unless they stop pandering to
their rightwing core vote, a leading frontbencher forced out in Michael Howard's
reshuffle warns today.

In a stinging critique of the party's lurch to the right, Damian Green said
attempts to appease the UK Independence party with a tougher Eurosceptic line
would do 'more harm than good'.

Writing in The Observer today, Green - a former shadow cabinet minister who has
served on the front bench under three different leaders and was regarded by some
as a future leadership candidate - says frantic attempts to shore up the vote in
2001 with rightwing policies had been disastrous.

Green, who resigned after being offered a move from his shadow transport brief
to a junior post, said he was puzzled that the Conservatives seemed so scared of
Ukip that they were ready to pander to their voters.

'First, if you start edging towards Ukip you may well pick up some extra support
on one side, but you will shed support on the other - and the last time I looked
the Liberal Democrats were rather better supported than Ukip. Second, there are
indeed a small number of people who hold the honest view that this government
should leave the EU. I believe they are wrong, and so does the Conservative
party, and their view is so straightforward there is no compromising with it, no
fudging that would satisfy all sides.'

Green's resignation - alongside that of John Bercow and Julie Kirkbride, both
regarded as modernisers - marks the exit of the last pro-European from Michael
Howard's team.

It raised eyebrows since he was behind two of the most popular recent policies,
the scrapping of tuition fees and opposing speed cameras.

The reshuffle was widely interpreted as a reaction to the threat from Ukip, now
attempting to push the Tories into fourth place in next month's Hartlepool
byelection.

Both John Redwood, recalled to the shadow cabinet, and John Whittingdale,
promoted back to shadow culture secretary, are confirmed Eurosceptics
experienced in fighting Ukip.

Last night Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former-TV show host turned Ukip MEP, launched
a clear bid for defecting Tory votes by accusing Howard of 'talking loud but
acting timid' on asylum.

Kilroy-Silk demanded a cap on refugees ensuring Britain would accept only
100,000 a year, including settlers from the EU.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 12, 2004

Focus The Blair Putsch: As Blair's support falls, we Tories must not veer right:
Damian Green , who quit Michael Howard's shadow cabinet team last week, says
what really matters to voters is education and crime

BYLINE: Damian Green

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 931 words


CONSERVATIVE reshuffles come and go, we shadow ministers move up, down or - as
in my case last week - out, but the real problem for the Conservative party has
been obstinately the same since 1997: how can we persuade more than 30 per cent
of the electorate to vote for us? If we can't, we are doomed to permanent
opposition under a first-past-the-post system, however enthusiastic that 30 per
cent may be about us. Even at a time when Tony Blair and his government have
been rightly falling in public esteem, those searching for a new political home
have been spreading themselves everywhere else except the Conservative party.

The inexorable logic that 30 per cent means continuing lost elections leads me
to disbelieve the widespread press comment that the leadership is engaged in a
deliberate shift to the right, and a strategy of shoring up the core
Conservative vote by planning to campaign more on Europe and asylum, the issues
that set the pulses racing among Conservative activists but fail to do so among
the wider population. Michael Howard is far too shrewd not to remember that we
have tried this before, in the run-up to the 2001 election, and that proved a
disaster that set the party's recovery back by many years.

I am equally puzzled by reports that the Conservative party is so scared about
the United Kingdom Independence party (Ukip) that it feels the need to appease
its voters. Puzzled because there are two clear reasons why this would not work.
First, if you start edging towards Ukip you may well pick up some extra support
on one side, but you will shed support on the other - and the last time I looked
the Liberal Democrats were rather better supported than Ukip. Secondly, there
are indeed a small number of people who hold the honest view that this country
should leave the EU. I believe they are wrong, and so does the Conservative
party, and their view is so straightforward that there is no compromising with
it, no fudging that would satisfy all sides. So appeasement of Ukip would do
more harm than good.

A successful strategy will start from the premise that voters know what is
important in their lives, and that we need to show them Conservative solutions
to the problems that face them. One of the peculiarities of the 2001 debacle was
that evidence was laid before MPs and party professionals that the economy,
crime, health and education were what people cared about, and that Europe and
asylum featured last. Nevertheless, we chose the least important issues as the
centre of our campaign.

The best thing we have done in the past three years is to accept that public
services are an absolutely key issue, and to devote time and effort to devising
practical policies that will deal with current difficulties, while also fitting
into a recognisably Tory view of the world. We need now to have the confidence
to keep them high on our agenda. Tony Blair in opposition recognised that as
long as the economy remained a 'Tory issue', which Labour could at best play
down, Labour was going to lose. So he turned it into a genuine battleground. We
need to do the same on the big so-called 'Labour issues'.

Let's also learn from George Bush. Education was an issue the Republicans
thought they could never capture. He made it the centrepiece of his
compassionate conservatism, and look what happened. In 2000 he won when he was,
in British terms, fighting an incumbent administration confident of a third
term. That sounds rather a good scenario to me. We also need to remember how
little time people devote to politics and to make the policies memorable. Take
two of the issues I have helped develop. Abolishing university tuition fees and
getting rid of unnecessary speed cameras are ideas that can be grasped
instantly, and grab the attention of those for whom politics is a complete
switch-off. We need to do more of this.

Of course, we do not need to spend all our firepower on the public services.
Crime, policing and the maintenance of orderly streets have always been
heartland Tory concerns and hugely important to millions of people. The central
nature of this issue illustrates why we need relentlessly to demonstrate that we
are a moderate, pragmatic party and not a set of ideologues. The tough policies
we need (and have) on crime and related issues will no doubt be dubbed
'extremist' by Labour. It is much easier to brush this away if it is apparent
from everything we say and the way we say it that we are not remotely extreme.

It is also a key part of the moderate Conservatism I have always believed in
that tackling crime and disorder is one of the best ways to help the less
fortunate. Those who can live in protected communities and travel in cars are
less likely to meet everyday disorder and dirt than those living in flats on
estates and using public transport. So there is no dichotomy between modern
practical conservatism and traditional Conservative 'tough' messages on some
issues.

For years the 'modernisers' have been arguing that the Conservative party needs
to look and sound different. This is correct, but it is not enough. The real
challenge is to produce easily understood policies in the key areas which fit
into a framework that itself applies Tory principles to 21st-century Britain.
When we do that, and sell the policies relentlessly, we will break through the
ceiling that we keep hitting in the polls, and will look forward to doing the
real job of the Conservative party: running this country in the interests of all
its people.

Damian Green is MP for Ashford, Kent


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 12, 2004

Comment: Why I'm still cheering for Tim: Our obsession with belittling our
sportsmen and women reflects a deeper and nastier national malaise

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1147 words


TIM HENMAN , the man who carries the burden of being Britain's most predictable
loser, has lost again in a semi-final of one of the world's grand slams, this
time in the US Open. It's the sixth time he's been at such a level, but unless
you live on Mars you'll know that's as far as he's ever got. The tabloid view is
that he chokes, that he lacks the killer instinct. The amateur psychiatrists who
populate the sports pages argue he shares the same psychological deformation as
the England football team, a lack of self-belief so that he can't hold on in
vital crunch matches.

This is a remarkably unfair assessment. Henman is the best English tennis player
I have watched, and probably ever will, despite last night's defeat. He is
acknowledged by his fellow players and the international sports press as the
world's best volleyer, the toughest part of tennis, calling for bare-faced
nerve, incredible reflexes and certainty of touch.

It is difficult enough at the humble level at which I play to judge when to
follow in a stroke to the net and then have the agility to volley the return; to
try to do it against players like Roger Federer, his US Open semi-final opponent
and the world's number one, who returned the ball with stunning pace, flight and
spin, is unbelievable. Nobody else on the tennis circuit has Henman's talent and
sheer guts to build a game on volleying aggression - and yet the guy is called
'limp-wristed' (because he's never won Wimbledon) and psychologically weak.

Henman bears the cross of English reserve and middle-class manners; even his
clenched fist when he pumps himself up is constrained and self-consciously short
of being exhibitionist. When he loses, he always promises to do better next time
and to keep on trying, the reaction of the prep-school boy to the Latin master
over disappointing homework.

Tabloid sports writers are quick to see his manners and restraint as symbolic of
a losing, wimpish streak; the trendy middle classes see in his ordinariness and
lack of intellectuality (books are boring he once admitted) the same weakness.
Champions, it is agreed across the social spectrum, have a special quality that
Henman lacks. Plainly talented, his character lets him down at the last.

IN ONE RESPECT, the laugh is on us. Henman is a rich man, more than amply
compensated for the ritual beatings-up he receives in the media. The more
interesting question is why we hunger for him to win so badly. Do you carry the
burden of a nation's expectations? he was asked in New York before last night's
match. Absolutely, came the reply. Of course, it would have been magnificent had
he won, but to imagine that his career is now a failure is absurd. Already
Henman's achievement is only topped by Fred Perry more than 60 years ago.
Somebody, sometime should have a reality check.

It is our obsession, now growing into a national neurosis, with our collective
need to do down foreigners that is the problem and its corollary that,
therefore, our men, women and team must win, win, win. Euro 2004 reached new
heights. During England's games, London became a ghost city as the streets
emptied of people and traffic. I have experienced nothing like it. Cultural
commentators have been observing for some years that sport is becoming a
contemporary replacement for war, a way of binding the nation together in a
collective experience that is essential before the fragmentation of modern life.

But the last few years have witnessed a tipping point into chauvinistic frenzy.
Euro 2000 and the World Cup in 2002 and already touched new heights of
xenophobia, but normal life continued more or less, during England games. Not in
2004.

The mood swings over the performance of the English football team last week were
a classic example of the new neurosis. David James's clumsy goal-keeping against
Austria last weekend, conceding an unnecessary goal in a 2-2 draw, unleashed a
national orgy of breast-beating and accusation. The goal-keeper is a 'donkey';
coach Sven-Goran Eriksson is a washed-up, oversexed, over-cautious plonker;
captain David Beckham is useless and uninspirational, distracted by celebrity
status; the team has no self-belief.

Football has always provided good, emotional copy, but we have moved to a new
level of merciless criticism and name-calling. The team's reaction - not
speaking to the media after victory over Poland in midweek - was petulant but
understandable. Sportsmen are not superbeings who win every match with sustained
brilliance. We should be more grown up in our expectations and reactions.

Two forces are interacting to produce this sulphurous, harsh culture - the
recoil from globalisation and noxious contemporary journalism. Globalisation,
vastly increasing the power of markets and corporations, may be a source of
wealth generation, but it also diminishes the sense that local and national
communities can do anything for themselves or change anything. Workers have to
accept the terms of work that companies offer; consumers confront ever blander
high streets with the same chains offering the same goods everywhere - and there
is nothing to be done. Governments cower before the might of 'the market' and
'business'. The expression of public purpose, a vital means of expressing
collective identity, becomes ever harder.

IN ITS PLACE , citizens look to express identity in the shared experience of
their private family or group or the more nebulous concept of nation. The better
our national team or national player can perform, the more solidarity we
collectively feel with each other and the more anchored we feel in ourselves.
Hostility to the stranger is a longstanding means of the group entrenching its
own belonging; now we are hostile to the non-English team or non-English player,
ridiculously expecting triumph of our own at all times, to achieve the same
result.

Our media, sensing this appetite, have applied the same spin, hyperbole and
refusal to contextualise 'facts' they applies to sport. Thus is created a
vicious circle in which our cities empty for Eng land games, the St George's
flag is ever more ubiquitous and our greatest tennis player for more than 60
years is characterised as a loser. Some see this as a small price to pay for the
wider social glue that supporting our national sports contenders provides; I
disagree.

The culture is poisoning everything, reducing children's willingness to study
foreign languages to our capacity to make common cause internationally.

The xenophobia behind Ukip has the same roots as decrying Henman's alleged
psychological failings - collectively advancing arguments and attitudes without
reason. I'll continue to admire Henman's game not withstanding the defeat.

That fewer of us can do the same is not just a pity; it's a form of collective
insanity that presages little good ahead.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 12, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 184 words


MICHAEL HOWARD is a loser.

The Tory leader is timid, a political coward. He does not deserve to lead the
Conservatives. It would be a catastrophe if he were to become Prime Minister.

Just as a few weeks ago he made a mess of his policy on political correctness,
so this week he failed to grasp the nettle of immigration and asylum.

The report from the Office of National Statistics, revealing that instead of the
13,000 migrants coming here from the new EU countries there have, in fact, been
191,000 arrivals - gave him the chance to say that he will have an immigration
policy that will allow only 100,000 people a year. That figure compares with
91,000 British leaving the UK each year.

And a leaked Home Office memo outlining the disastrous impact asylum seekers
were having on some towns gave him the chance to announce that Britain will
withdraw from the UN Convention on Refugees so we can better control asylum.

Instead, it was left to UKIP to state that we will carry out these policies.

Unlike Howard, we are not afraid to stand up for Britain and our way of life.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              90 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           September 12, 2004, Sunday

Just answer the question

BYLINE: By DAVID DIMBLEBY

SECTION: Review; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 2288 words

It seemed such a simple idea. Invite a cross-section of the public into a studio
to question a cross-section of politicians and you have filled another hour of
television.

When first devised, Question Time was intended to last only a few months, but
that was reckoning without Robin Day. Robin, with no work to do, had been
kicking his heels in the basement study of his London house, but he was still
under contract to the BBC. He was a prickly figure, both demanding and
domineering - the mock humility he occasionally affected on air was, as all his
colleagues knew, precisely that. He was a difficult man to like but an easy man
to admire. More than any other broadcaster he had set the standard for political
interviewing. He had devised a television style that combined lawyerly
persistence with theatrical flair to confront politicians, and prise open their
shells.

At the end of the 1970s these talents were being wasted by the BBC. Robin had
become "a problem". Outside politics and political interviewing, nothing much
took his fancy. He was admirably unmalleable. The first Question Time, broadcast
on September 25 1979, saved him.

Now, 846 programmes later, Question Time marks its 25th anniversary. I write
"marks" rather than celebrates because I do not want to tempt fate. Nothing is a
more tempting prey to novelty-hungry BBC executives bent on preferment than an
established programme that has been around as long as many of them have been in
television. I first had a whiff of this in 1997, after the Labour landslide,
when some voices in the BBC suggested - ludicrously - that a new
non-confrontational era of politics had dawned and that maybe it should be
matched by a new non-confrontational form of political coverage. We saw that
argument off.

But the aftermath of the 2001 election was worse. The Director-General of the
BBC, Greg Dyke, was concerned that the manner of the BBC coverage of politics
might itself have been partly responsible for the low voter turnout and the
disaffection of the young with Westminster politics. The messenger was
volunteering to shoot the messenger. It was not a view I shared, but the
Director-General is the Director-General and Question Time, with all the other
political programmes, duly trooped along to be lectured. The underlying
assumption was that the BBC's coverage appealed only to the white middle class
and the middle aged or elderly. The young were not being properly served. Nobody
dared wonder out loud whether young people as a whole have ever been interested
in Westminster politics - and whether it was the conduct of politics itself that
was at fault. We were cheered up by our research, which showed that among young
people Question Time was the best-known current affairs programme.

I took on the chairmanship of Question Time more than a decade ago from Peter
Sissons, who had succeeded Robin Day. I did not know what to expect; to tell the
truth, I had rarely watched the programme. I soon learnt that, like many
apparently simple ideas, Question Time is in reality complex, its simplicity
achieved by artifice.

Take the audience. The idea is that the viewer should feel he is watching a true
cross-section of the public, much as would have filled a town hall for a
political meeting 100 years ago. Cross-sections are not easily achieved, and we
are regularly attacked for having audiences biased in one direction or another.
Sometimes, as in the special edition of Question Time that followed 9/11, the
accusation is justified, though that bias, as I will explain, was not
intentional. At other times, it is inspired by politicians who find it
incomprehensible that the public should savage them with such ferocity. In the
last months of John Major's Government, ministers regularly complained that the
audience were united in their hostility, and they had to have it gently
explained that the ratio of Tory voters to those of other parties in the
audience was the same as ever. It was just that their own people were turning
against them.

Even now, seven years after their defeat, senior Tories find it difficult to win
support from the audience. I do not think this is evidence of a pro-Labour bias
so much as a general reluctance to give the Tories credit for new policies, a
reflection in the studio of the difficulties that they are encountering on the
doorstep. Labour ministers are beginning to sense the same scepticism and
disillusion from our audiences, and no doubt they, too, will soon be blaming its
make-up for their discomfort.

Remember the lead-up to the invasion of Iraq. The country was divided, but
opponents of military action were far more vociferous and articulate than its
supporters. We took pains to include a proportion of people who claimed to
support the war in the audience, but many were in favour in a vague, muddled
way, and were not willing to speak out on the subject. We had an obligation to
achieve balance, but more than that we desperately wanted the argument for war
to be as cogently expressed as that against. We were forced to do something we
had never done before: to plant articulate war supporters in identifiable places
among the audience so that I could call on them when needed to provide balance.

Choosing a balanced audience depends upon the goodwill of those who apply to
come. We ask them not only their age and job, but also how they voted at the
last election, and try to achieve a balance roughly in line with the popular
vote at the last General Election. It can be disrupted. An over-enthusiastic
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) official e-mailed the party's
supporters in Sheffield, where Robert Kilroy-Silk was to appear on the panel,
urging them to apply but "pretend you are a Tory or Labour supporter".
Fortunately we detected the ruse in time to prevent a disproportionate UKIP
claque from dominating the programme.

Other disruptive tactics we spot, if we are lucky, in time to defuse them.
"Father" Neil Horan, who recently seized hold of the lead runner in the Olympic
marathon, regularly asks to be in the audience, is regularly refused and
bombards my long-suffering editor with letters of complaint. What stunt he
proposes for us, I hope we shall never discover.

The 9/11 programme was another matter, a chapter of accidents which led to the
live edition of Question Time being condemned by The Daily Telegraph as a "bear
pit" which "plumbed new depths of animosity towards the United States and
mendacity in representing British attitudes." It is easy to see why the writer
reached such a conclusion, but wrong to attribute it, as he did, to
"anti-Americanism at the BBC". We had been asked on 24 hours' notice to prepare
a special programme in the aftermath of 9/11 to discuss the implications of the
attacks, and the likely effects of this new and
grotesque form of terrorism. We chose to do it in London and began looking for
an audience in a hurry. We even advertised the programme on radio to bring
people in. The result was an audience less well balanced than I would have
liked. Moslems were more heavily represented than in the UK as a whole because
that is the demographic breakdown of London - and we always balance ethnicity
and religion according to the region we are in. But there was another flaw. For
whatever reason, we failed sufficiently to represent pro-American opinion. None
of this was obvious when I went into the studio and I was taken by surprise by
the strength of anti-American feeling among both audience and panel: the
language used by some members of the audience was not so much intemperate as
callously insensitive.

Shortly after the programme, I saw Philip Lader, the American ambassador who had
appeared on the panel, at the 9/11 memorial service in St Paul's Cathedral. To
my relief he told me that, although the press had described him as "close to
tears", he had not taken offence and had no complaint. Nevertheless, the
hundreds of viewers who did ring to complain were right. It had been a badly
balanced programme which had upset many people.

Chairing Question Time is a rollercoaster ride. We take every possible
precaution to make it spontaneous without letting it descend into chaos. From
the gallery a stream of suggestions reach me through a hearing aid: sometimes
helpful but occasionally so obtrusive I resort to removing the device from my
ear and going solo.

I hear everything from simple instructions about the time left until my final
link, to proposals from the editor about which question to take next.

We conduct a coded dialogue on what I plan to do. My political producer offers
tips on quotes to use or follow-up questions. The director asks if I could move
out of shot or warns me when he has me in close-up. It is a team effort,
although I am always aware that as chairman I carry the can and I follow my own
instinct if it conflicts with advice from the gallery.

Odd remarks can light up a programme. I did not mean to call the former foreign
secretary "Robin Cock". I quickly corrected myself but Kenneth Clarke smirking
on the panel, and the audience starting to laugh, made it one of those moments
that ends up in the archive programmes. Cook recovered with the riposte: "Yes,
David Bumblebee."

One of the excitements of Question Time has always been the appearance of the
big beasts of the political jungle on the panel. Michael Heseltine was the first
Cabinet minister to risk accepting an invitation, on only the third edition of
the programme. Afterwards he complained at his treatment by a hostile audience
but later, when he had been congratulated in the street by people who had told
him how well he had done, he decided it was a forum in which he shone, and he
became a regular performer. Other heavy hitters followed.

But in recent years something has changed. You might think that an opportunity
to argue with opponents and with the voters, no holds barred, would offer
exactly the opportunity for political engagement that so many politicians say
they want. The Labour government has extolled the virtue of public discussion
and debate, of access, of the Big Conversation, of being the listening party.
Yet, offered the opportunity of appearing in this simplest of forums, its
members suddenly find it hard to accept.

Since he was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, unlike his
predecessors, has never appeared. Nor has Jack Straw since he became Foreign
Secretary. Nor David Blunkett since he became Home Secretary. Nor John Reid
since he took charge of the nation's heath, nor his predecessor in that office,
Alan Milburn. John Prescott has not been seen for two years, and the Prime
Minister, who had begun to appear annually, not since the last General Election.

I hope he has not been deterred by the enthusiastic applause that greeted
Harriet Harman's reply to a recent question when she began with the words: "Ever
since Gordon Brown has been Prime Minister . . ."

But why this growing list of refuseniks? We have been told that, in the late
1990s, the Prime Minister had said in Cabinet that since he had found time to
appear, he expected others round the table to follow his example. For a time
they did, but then the flow started to dry up. It may have been the malign
influence of Alastair Campbell, notionally a civil servant, looking always for
party advantage and ignoring the public interest.

To a No 10 press officer it is all too easy to want to ensure only positive
treatment of your senior ministers. It is acceptable for them to submit to an
interview for the Today programme or Newsnight. There is almost a ritual to the
head-on attack from a professional interviewer, expected and therefore
discounted. What they most dislike is the unexpected, the question that catches
them off guard, and worst of all the humiliation of being publicly mocked. BBC
interviewers do not mock. Question Time audiences, most recently over the
evidence for going to war in Iraq, sometimes do.

Tony Blair on one occasion fell victim to what must have seemed a set-up. As
ever it was a complex story. A woman had applied to be in the audience for an
election Question Time edition, saying she wanted to raise an issue about her
disgust over the Health Service with the Prime Minister. She came down from
Yorkshire to Milton Keynes where the programme was to be recorded. Unfortunately
she told a tabloid newspaper what she was going to ask and it was splashed as
"Mother to quiz PM". This broke all our rules. We decide which questions will be
chosen and no member of the audience has a prescriptive right to speak. If I
called on her it would look as though the programme had not only planted her in
the audience but connived at her bid to publicise her case. We explained the
problem to No 10 and told them that it would look bad for everyone if we dropped
her from the programme. Instead, the editorial team took a chance, allowed her
in, but did not tell me who she was or where she was sitting. We duly covered
the topic of the NHS with no word from the mother. We moved onto the economy
when, at random, I selected her and she twisted the discussion back to her
complaint about her daughter's treatment, much to our and the Prime Minister's
discomfort. I am not sure that No 10 has forgiven us.

With the departure of Alastair Campbell there are signs of an improved
relationship between No 10 and the programme. It would be a pity if it were not
so, not for our sake but for the sake of the public and the voters, who have a
right to hear those they put into power answer to those that put them there. It
may not always be comfortable, but it is salutary.

Question Time at 25 will be shown on Thursday, September 16, 10.35pm BBC1

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              91 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                           September 12, 2004, Sunday

Back with a vengeance

BYLINE: By PATRICK HENNESSY AND MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; International; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2011 words

Alan Milburn knew that Tony Blair was serious about bringing him back into the
Cabinet when the Prime Minister rang up and asked to speak to his partner, Ruth
Briel.

During the 15 months since the former Health Secretary had dramatically quit the
Government, claiming that he wanted to spend more time with Miss Briel, a
consultant psychiatrist, and the couple's two sons, the two men had kept in
close touch. The Prime Minister found his ex-colleague useful as a sounding
board, while Mr Milburn, who has long been seen as an ultra-Blairite "outrider",
played the role of candid friend.

After July's "reshuffle-that-never-was" - long anticipated, but not executed -
the tone of the conversations changed. With the departure of Peter Mandelson to
Brussels, Mr Blair needed a political soulmate at the heart of decision-making
in the run-up to the general election and, crucially, somebody other than Gordon
Brown to run the election campaign. Might Mr Milburn be tempted back? According
to a close friend, the former Health Secretary had ruled out a return to a "red
box job", a heavy departmental brief that would leave him little time for his
family, who are based in the North-East.

However, a key policy- making and presentation role, combined with a seat in the
Cabinet, was a different proposition entirely. The suggestion was first made
before Mr Blair set off for Barbados at the beginning of August. It was as good
as sealed by the Prime Minister's personal call to Miss Briel two weeks ago, in
which he used all his formidable powers of persuasion to convince her that Mr
Milburn's new-found and very public preoccupation with "work-life balance" would
not be compromised.

With Miss Briel squared, there remained, of course, a more forbidding stumbling
block in Gordon Brown. To say that the Chancellor's relationship with Mr Milburn
is characterised by heavy mutual mistrust would be an understatement. The bad
blood between Mr Brown and the tough-talking Geordie dates back to the days when
Labour was in opposition and Mr Milburn endured an uncomfortable spell in the
shadow Treasury team.

Things got worse two years ago when Mr Milburn, as Health Secretary, went over
Mr Brown's head to ensure a large spending increase for the National Health
Service. Mr Blair blurted out the plan in a television interview just days
before Mr Brown's big day in the Commons, causing an incandescent Chancellor to
march into Downing Street and yell at the Prime Minister: "You've fed my
Budget!"

Even that, however, paled by comparison with the epic confrontation between Mr
Brown and Mr Milburn over foundation hospitals, described by some in Mr
Milburn's camp as a "score draw". This spin was an error. "Gordon doesn't do
draws," a Brownite MP growled.

With a personal history of this sort, last weekend's authoritatively sourced
reports (including one in The Sunday Telegraph) that Mr Blair was planning to
bring back Mr Milburn, probably to replace Ian McCartney as Labour Party
Chairman, were bound to provoke the ire of Brownites. Mr Brown has jealously
guarded his role as the party's main election strategist since he was first
given the task in 1997.

The waters were muddied still further on Monday when Andrew Smith, the dull but
dogged Work and Pensions Secretary, and a leading Brownite, suddenly quit the
Cabinet in the wake of well-briefed reports that he was about to be sacked. A
friend of Mr Smith hotly denies that he was acting on the orders of Mr Brown,
timing his departure deliberately to cause embarrassment to Mr Blair ahead of
his monthly news conference at Downing Street on Tuesday. But the suspicion in
Number 10 is that Mr Smith's pre-emptive strike was carefully orchestrated by
his political master, Mr Brown.

Meanwhile, Mr McCartney, mobilised an effective campaign to save his own job,
objecting in an interview to the "unacceptable briefings on a personal basis"
against him, and proudly defending his working-class Scottish roots. His main
Cabinet mentor, John Prescott, warned Mr Blair that removing Mr McCartney would
send exactly the wrong message to party activists ahead of Labour's conference
in Brighton later this month. By Tuesday night, Mr McCartney was feeling
confident enough to hold a very public get-together in the Terrace Bar of the
Commons with Brendan Barber, the Trade Union Council general secretary, and
other union leaders.

The next day, the spotlight swung back to Mr Milburn as Mr Blair finally got
round to the shake-up of his Government. Alan Johnson, the higher education
minister, became the first former union leader to win a seat at the Cabinet
table since Frank Cousins in the 1960s, replacing Mr Smith, while Mr Milburn was
made Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, a courtesy title which brought with
it two offices, one in the Cabinet Office, one in Downing Street, both staffed
by civil servants and funded by the taxpayer. Most significantly, Number 10
officials were authorised to make clear that Mr Milburn, not Mr Brown, would be
in charge of election strategy.

To add insult to injury, Mr Blair poached one of the Chancellor's rising stars,
the financial secretary to the Treasury, Ruth Kelly, a 36-year-old mother of
four, to be Mr Milburn's number two at the Cabinet Office. Meanwhile, the
reaction of Douglas Alexander, also 36, another of Mr Brown's proteges, on being
told he was losing his Cabinet Office job, his Duchy of Lancaster title and his
election strategy role to be shunted into the backwater of the Trade department,
was unprintable. According to Downing Street officials, "sharply raised voices"
were heard coming from the room where Mr Blair was informing Mr Alexander of his
new duties. The reshuffle was not complete until 8.30pm, at which point a
drained Prime Minister collapsed on his sofa to watch the second half of the
England-Poland World Cup qualifier with his football-obsessed middle son, Nicky.

Blairite Cabinet ministers and Mr Milburn's close friends, who include Stephen
Byers, the former Trade Secretary, were doing their best not to appear
triumphalist at the end of a week that saw a rash of "Blair vanquishes Brown"
headlines. This coterie's principal objectives appeared to have been achieved in
a single Cabinet appointment: Mr Milburn would ensure that a third Labour term
would be characterised by bolder reforms of the public services than those
envisaged by the Chancellor, and a credible leadership challenger to Mr Brown
was now in place in preparation for the time when Mr Blair decides to call it a
day.

And yet, among the cannier members of the Prime Minister's inner circle, there
was a sense of apprehension. "You spend a week battling, winning, and then you
suddenly realise it's not just anybody you've done this to, it's Gordon Brown,"
one minister said. "There is no bigger beast than Gordon."

Any talk of Mr Milburn as the unchallenged Blairite leadership contender of the
future was being quietly stamped on by those at Downing Street - although Mr
Byers will fan the flames today in a GMTV interview in which he says Mr Milburn
would make an "excellent leader of the Labour Party and an excellent Prime
Minister".

This apprehension among Blairites was compounded by the meticulously measured
tone of the responses from the Chancellor's camp. However, there was relief at
Number 10 that a book by Derek Scott, the Prime Minister's former economics
adviser, failed to provide bombshell revelations about the Blair-Brown
relationship. It did, however, accuse the Chancellor of being "obstructive and
deceitful" and of withholding key information, particularly about his budgets,
from both Mr Blair and senior officials at Downing Street.

This weekend, it was clear that both sides were regrouping in preparation for
bigger battles to come - with hostilities possibly being renewed as soon as this
week at the TUC Congress in Brighton. Both Mr Blair and Mr Milburn know that
they have to tread carefully - Mr Brown might be down, but he is definitely not
out.

In the blue corner, meanwhile, Michael Howard used the Prime Minister's
drawn-out reshuffle as cover for some significant, and unexpected, changes of
his own on Wednesday. His decision to bring Nicholas Soames into the shadow
cabinet as defence spokesman and, in particular, to rehabilitate John Redwood in
a role not dissimilar to Mr Milburn's, was hailed by Tim Yeo, the shadow
Environment Secretary, as "swift and decisive". By the end of the week, however,
it was being seen, in some sections of his party at least, as a bungled
opportunity.

In performing this shake-up - his third substantial set of changes in less than
a year - Mr Howard managed to lose three of the more prominent, if not
universally admired, members of his front bench: Damian Green, John Bercow and
Julie Kirkbride. All from the Tories' so-called "modernising" wing, the trio
were offered either demotions or unsuitable new positions. Mr Bercow plans to
speak out this week in a Commons debate on the Civil Partnerships Bill, when he
will protest that Mr Howard has done little to show that "the Tories have
changed".

As always, some senior figures, including David Davis, the shadow Home
Secretary, were said to have battled in vain to hold on to their subordinates,
in his case Miss Kirkbride.

Some aspects of the reshuffle won wide support in party ranks - in particular
the decision to promote Mr Soames, a popular figure with a good track record of
scoring hits against Labour in the Commons. The promotion of David Cameron, Mr
Howard's policy chief, to the shadow cabinet, and of George Osborne as shadow
Chief Secretary to the Treasury has brought the impression of youthful dynamism
to the Tory leader's team.

However, Mr Howard's decision to bring back Mr Redwood, the able but remote
Right-winger so devastatingly characterised as an extraterrestrial "Vulcan", was
the cause of widespread anxiety in Tory ranks. Mr Howard's aides argued that Mr
Redwood's track record as an "anti-Blair weapon of mass destruction" would make
him an invaluable asset in the run-up to the election. The Tory leader, they
say, has decided to concentrate on burnishing his image as a Prime
Minister-in-waiting and to delegate the task of savaging Mr Blair to others. It
is also hoped at Central Office that Mr Redwood's robust Eurosceptic credentials
will reassure Tory voters who are thinking of defecting to the UK Independence
Party.

However, many senior Tories remember with a shudder Mr Redwood's maverick
behaviour after he resigned from the Cabinet in 1995 to stand in the Tory
leadership contest, and William Hague's decision to sack him from the shadow
cabinet on the grounds that he was not a team player. There is a sense, even
among Conservatives who share Mr Redwood's Right-wing politics, that his public
image is disastrous, and that his promotion to the very front line of the Tory
election campaign is Mr Howard's first serious managerial mistake.

A senior shadow cabinet member told The Sunday Telegraph: "It's a mess. I cannot
understand the motivation. Is it panic? A desire to seek the protection of the
Right? It's completely confusing and very depressing. Eight weeks ago, I'd have
walked across hot coals for Michael, but now I don't know what I think. The
parliamentary party is in a terrible mood."

Another senior shadow minister, hitherto a chirpy Howard loyalist, said: "I
despair at this. It seems completely wrong and has confused everyone with an
ounce of intelligence. It makes a convulsion after the election inevitable."

One Labour minister, asked on Friday about the Tory changes, said gleefully:
"Howard's just written line one of our manifesto - 'Don't vote Tory or it'll be
back to the 1990s with John Redwood'."

Both the Prime Minister and Mr Howard have taken considerable risks by bringing
back these hardhitting henchmen. But they have also ensured that sparks will
fly. As one Number 10 aide said last week: "One thing is for sure - with Alan
Milburn and John Redwood in the picture, it won't be a boring election
campaign."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              92 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 10, 2004

Ephraim HARDCASTLE

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 479 words


FRIENDS of Vanessa Redgrave fear she might be in danger following the massacre
of children by terrorists, some of them identified as Chechen.

Russia vows to hunt down Chechen terrorists 'anywhere' in the world. Miss
Redgrave is chummy with British based Chechen actor Ahmed Zakayev, and fought to
prevent his extradition to Russia after authorities there called him a terror
warlord. Left-winger Miss Redgrave has been monitored by MI5 for years. Their
surveillance may now come in useful.

THE full-frontal nude scene by bad-boy Irish star Colin Farrell, pictured, in A
Home At The End Of The World was cut from the edited film but he's showing it to
friends. New York Post columnist Liz Smith says: 'As far as I've heard,
everything about Colin is in perfect proportion. Nothing too overpowering or
petite.'

FORMER daytime TV star and UKIP grandee Robert Kilroy-Silk says that while he
has always abhorred racism he considers Ireland a land of 'peasants, priests and
pixies'. His wife of 40 years, Jan, has admonished him for this view.

'She told me I'd forgotten to include p***heads,' he informed a Westminster
audience. Dear Robert, always the politician.

LABOUR'S new election supremo, Alan Milburn, talks about 'ordinary, hardworking
people' and 'decent, hardworking people' as if he were a member of this
much-admired group. Let's hope mischievous elements don't dig up old photos of
him as a hair-on-his-shoulders Trotskyist. Incidentally, who encouraged the
Geordie lightweight to take on Chancellor Gordon Brown?

Curiously it was another Scot, the BBC's elfin political editor Andrew Marr.

PERKY Tory MP Julie Kirkbride, pictured, was shuffled out of her job as Shadow
Culture Secretary to a lower post in the shadow Foreign Office team. A cruel
joke by leader Michael Howard? Julie and her beautifully tanned husband, the
Tory MP and seasoned golfer Andrew Mackay, enjoy frequent foreign jaunts. In the
past year they've enjoyed junkets to Bahrein, Egypt and Botswana.

BROADCASTER Fergal Keane is not a man burdened by false modesty. He describes in
a magazine article his forthcoming memoirs: 'The book I am writing is about
Ireland, revolution, war, alcoholism, loss, love, hope and much else.

The blurb writers would probably call it "an epic story of redemption". I think
it is simpler than that. It is a love story.' We shall be the judges of that,
Fergal.

LABOUR MP Peter Mandelson will be much missed as a source of unintentional
comedy. The elegant, twice-dismissed Cabinet Minister, now a Euro nob - he's
dyeing his hair to make himself look even more gorgeous to Brussels types - told
a meeting in London there were only two things he'd miss: his constituents in
Hartepool and fellow members of the UKJapan 21st Century Group, of which he was
chair. 'There wasn't a dry eye in the house,' says my source.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              93 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 10, 2004

KILROY MP BID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 89 words


FORMER chat show host Robert Kilroy Silk is hoping to storm into Westminster at
the next election.

The outspoken star, a Euro MP for the anti-EU UK Independence Party, is to stand
for Parliament next year.

Speaking at Westminster yesterday, he pledged to campaign on immigration and
asylum, defence, security and law and order in his fight for a Commons seat in
the East Midlands.

He said: "We are going to change the face of British politics forever, and I
promise you we will not let the British people down."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              94 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Return of Redwood seen as threat to unity

BYLINE: By George Jones and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News; Politics Pg. 10

LENGTH: 333 words

TORY modernisers expressed dismay yesterday at John Redwood's return to the
shadow cabinet. They said it posed the biggest threat to party unity since
Michael Howard became leader.

Leading figures on the centre-Left portrayed Mr Howard's reshuffle as "a panic
move" after a disappointing summer in which the Tories failed to make headway
against Labour.

Two leading modernisers, Damian Green and John Bercow, quit the front bench
despite being offered other posts and yesterday Julie Kirkbride, one of only
eight women in the Commons front-bench team, said she was returning to the back
benches.

She was demoted from her post as shadow culture secretary and was offered
another position on the front bench.

Miss Kirkbride, whose husband, Andrew Mackay, is also a Tory MP, said Mr Howard
had told all front-bench members that they had to work harder before the
election. But, as she had a three-year-old son, she could not devote more time
to politics.

Mr Redwood's return in the new role of spokesman for government deregulation was
the big surprise of the reshuffle. John Whittingdale, who took over the culture,
media and sport brief, said he would provide much needed talent. But
modernisers, while acknowledging his campaigning skills and appetite for work,
were astonished that he had been brought back.

He did not present a "user-friendly image" to voters, one said. Another said the
changes were unnecessary and that Mr Howard could not afford to lose talented
MPs from the front bench.

The promotion of Mr Redwood was seen as a shift to the Right in response to the
threat from the UK Independence Party. The leadership has been alarmed by the
prospect of defections by activists to the UKIP since its success in the
European elections.

Mr Redwood, a leading Eurosceptic, is expected to be in the forefront of the
party's battle to contain the UKIP threat. His presence on the front bench is
likely to reassure Eurosceptics that Mr Howard will take a robust line on
Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              95 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Back-biting tomcats give Tories hope

BYLINE: By Alice Thomson

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 24

LENGTH: 978 words

When the cat shit gets bigger than the cat, get rid of the cat, Dick Cheney says
in David Hare's new play Stuff Happens. Donald Rumsfeld ("Rummie") and "Dickie"
are discussing Tony Blair and the "girl band" New Labour.

He's right. Labour's two tomcats are scrapping again and the shit is piling up.
The leaking and spinning on both sides is out of control.

Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, convinced that there are no other competitors in
town, are fighting it out to be top cat and the stench is becoming unbearable.

Tony has scratched Jack Straw and Douglas Alexander, and is coaching Ruth Kelly.
Clare Short is fighting on Gordon's behalf, while he is attacking Alan Milburn.
Cherie, meanwhile, is making sure that none of Gordon's lot can have a go at the
cream. The only grown-up left in the Cabinet is David Blunkett, who is keeping
his head down and getting on with the job of running his department.

It's the fault of the Conservatives. They did too badly this summer. The Prime
Minister sailed through disastrous European and local election results and the
Butler report, and went on holiday feeling invincible. Michael Howard had messed
up over Iraq. Even John Prescott thought it too cruel to land any punches on him
over the holidays.

For a moment, at the time when the Tory leader was elected, the Prime Minister
was nervous, but by time he was in his shorts in Barbados, he was no longer
bothering with the Opposition. His only thoughts appear to have been about
Gordon.

At his beginning-of-term address, his ire was concentrated on his Chancellor. He
has created another Chancellor - Alan Milburn - to take him on. Mr Milburn's
brief isn't to prevent the Tories getting into power, but to stop Gordon from
printing his own manifesto.

Mr Brown, meanwhile, couldn't care less what shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin is
up to while Mr Blair still has his hands on the keys to Number 10. Labour
backbenchers, no longer worried about losing their seats, have gone back to
their favourite subject - foxhunting. Self-confidence has recently been Labour's
greatest weapon, but over-confidence could now be its downfall.

This is exactly what the Tories needed. Instead of going on holiday feeling smug
and self-satisfied, they felt desperate. The polls had stalled, voters seemed to
prefer Charles Kennedy, the man who could hardly sweat his way through a speech
to his own party faithful. This week the Liberal Democrats were four points
behind the Tories, having made little effort all summer. Meanwhile, despite a
raft of announcements, the only headlines the Tories seemed able to generate
were about whether a homosexual candidate would be deselected.

As a result, after 10 years they finally seem to have been shocked into
something resembling loyalty. Like Margaret Thatcher's pussycat bow, now
fashionable again, self-discipline has finally returned to the party at just the
moment that Labour has lost it.

Take the Tory reshuffle. It may look like a rushed job, but it was well thought
out. Michael Howard and a small team spent the summer discussing it, yet no one
leaked a word until he began calling his shadow cabinet into his office.

John Redwood is the stop the UK Independence Party man, who will bring the Tory
core vote back on side. But the new deregulation shadow minister is also not
afraid to take on the Cabinet over waste and bureaucracy. Nicholas Soames, the
shadow defence minister, has made himself as well acquainted with generals and
squaddies as he is with canapes. He deserves to be in the shadow cabinet.

Michael Heseltine, Kenneth Baker and Douglas Hurd have been urging their former
colleague to bring on younger MPs, so they should be pleased by the promotion of
David Cameron and George Osborne. It may be seen as a lurch to the Right, but Mr
Howard spent more of the day trying to save the gay Tory candidate, Ashley
Crossley, from deselection than on the reshuffle.

The Tories still face huge problems. Financially, they are not in the clear;
donations are still few and far between. When the shadow education minister, Tim
Collins, outlined his plans to scrap tuition fees, they were well thought out,
but he forgot to tell Conservative Central Office that he was about to make the
announcement.

One Tory told me that he was trying to place a bet that, in 2012, Britain would
not only host the Olympics, but also that Matthew Pinsent would win another gold
and a Tory would be giving out the prizes. He is the most optimistic. The Tories
have been told to try to visualise walking through the door of Number 10, but
most, including Mr Howard, sound as though they would be delighted if they won
just 30 more seats.

However, they think they have found the right formula for their impending party
conference. The plan is simple. They have decided they don't need a vision or
ideology; what voters want is good management.

Their polling shows them that the core issues are the economy, health, education
and crime, with immigration a close fifth. "Voters want someone who will roll up
their sleeves and get on with the job," says one aide. "Dwindling pensions,
pounds 2,000 council tax bills, superbugs in hospitals, lack of discipline in
schools. But most of all they want a good plumber to stop the leaking away of
all their money."

Bournemouth is their last chance before the election to show themselves as
competent, energetic and focused on serving the country.

Luckily for them, Mr Blair and his team seem happy to play into their hands, by
presenting themselves as bickering, back-biting and back-stabbing. As David Hare
makes clear in his play, stuff happens when a small group of introverted
individuals come to believe that their magic circle is all that matters.

If an electoral first strike takes out this Government, no doubt Mr Hare will be
waiting, pen poised, to tell us why.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              96 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 10, 2004

KILROY SETTING HIS SIGHTS ON WESTMINSTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 201 words


FORMER TV presenter Robert Kilroy Silk will seek to become a Westminster MP at
the next general election, he declared yesterday.

The Sunday Express columnist and former Labour MP became an MEP this year for
the UK Independence Party, which believes Britain should pull out of the EU.

Yesterday he said he would stand for a Commons seat at the next general election
and he claimed UKIP had the funding to fight any marginal contest it chose.

He had been pledged "as much as I need" by various sources to fight seats up and
down the country.

He declined to say which seat he would fight although the East Midlands, for
which he is MEP, was a possibility. But MPs with narrow majorities will dread
being targeted.

Mr Kilroy Silk said his platform would not focus solely on withdrawal from the
EU but issues including immigration, asylum, defence, homeland security and
health.

"We are going to change the face of British politics forever, and I promise you
we will not let the British people down, " he said.

Earlier this summer there was speculation that he would fight the Hartlepool
Parliamentary by-election to replace Peter Mandelson. Mr Kilroy Silk decided not
to do so.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              97 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 10, 2004

KILROY SILK TO RUN FOR PARLIAMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 200 words


FORMER TV presenter Robert Kilroy Silk will try to become a Westminster MP at
the next general election, he announced yesterday.

The Sunday Express columnist and former Labour MP became a Member of the
European Parliament this year for the UK Independence Party, which believes
Britain should pull out of the EU.

Yesterday he claimed Ukip had the funding to fight any marginal contest it
chose. He had been pledged "as much as I need" by various sources to fight seats
up and down the country.

He declined to say which seat he would fight, although the East Midlands, for
which he is MEP, was a possibility.

He also refused to say how many candidates Ukip would put up.

Mr Kilroy Silk said his platform would not focus solely on withdrawal from the
EU but issues including immigration, asylum, defence, homeland security and
health.

"We are going to change the face of politics and I promise we will not let the
British people down, " he said.

Earlier this summer there was speculation he would fight the Hartlepool
by-election to replace Peter Mandelson, who is now an EU Commissioner.

But he decided not to run amid speculation about disputes in Ukip's leadership.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              98 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 10, 2004

Policy and Politics: Kilroy-Silk returns to haunt 'lazy, lying elite': TV host
turned MEP says Ukip will fight marginal seats

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 623 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former Labour MP turned daytime TV star, returned to his
old Westminster haunts yesterday to warn the "metropolitan political elite" that
the UK Independence party intends to defeat the European superstate and "change
the face of British politics forever".

In a speech which deftly mixed self-deprecating humour and combative politics
with lacerating attacks on "lying politicians" and "lazy, sloppy" media, Mr
Kilroy-Silk repeatedly predicted that an angry and betrayed electorate was
poised to overthrow the "old politics" and that he intended to be its
instrument.

Claiming to have contacts and friendships within both the Labour cabinet and
Tory shadow cabinet - including Jack Straw, "a very good friend of mine" - he
said Ukip was already influencing the major party agenda and would do so
increasingly.

Apart from British withdrawal from the EU - "the single issue that is most
important to me is self-government" - his most specific pledge during his
address to the parliamentary press gallery was to stand at the coming general
election.

He has picked a seat somewhere in the east Midlands where he cruised to a
spectacular result, narrowly in second place behind the Tories, and became an
elected Ukip MEP in June.

"We have been promised the money to fight every marginal seat" that Ukip leaders
considered important, he said. "That money is in place and it's open ended."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, MP for Ormskirk in Lancashire from 1974 to 1983 when he quit
after a running feud with the Militant Tendency, refused to divulge his sources
of funds - "as much as I need" - though Paul Sykes, the anti-EU Yorkshire
businessman, was the key donor in the June Euro-elections when Ukip ended up
with 12 seats.

But he made no secret of his contempt for "the old politics and the old parties"
along with every politician he mentioned except Tony Benn, whom he sees as also
rejecting the lies and deceits of mainstream politics.

There will be no pacts or alliances with any of them, said Mr Kilroy-Silk, who
is not yet Ukip's leader, but spoke as if he was.

"People are deeply angry about the way they are made to feel guilty about being
proud to be British or ashamed to celebrate Christmas," he said. "Are we allowed
to say that this is a terrible thing to have done to ordinary decent people?"

The ex-MP, whose successful morning show, Kilroy, was dropped by the BBC after
he made savagely sweeping generalisations about Islam - many repeated at
Westminster yesterday - insists that he is still the leftwinger he once was on
civil liberties, anti-racism, equality, poverty, aid to the third world and even
progressive taxation "for people like me".

But he revealed a bleak view of a country alienated from its past; not racist,
he insisted, but angry about the lies told about immigration and about a
"bureaucratic and corrupt" Europe. Political correctness was another of his
targets.

Asked if he would ban the Islamic headscarf, the hajib, he said no, although he
opposes multi-culturalism that threatens British culture.

"People say 'isn't Kelly Holmes a triumph for multi-culturalism?' No she isn't.
She's British and always has been," he told reporters he had already repeatedly
chided for lazy, London-based reporting.

His supporters, fans of his TV show, have to suffer the policies which elite
politicians avoid for themselves and their children - "doing a Diane Abbott or a
Harriet Harman and taking their kids away".

But he praised his own wife, Jan, who had been billed as the brains behind his
career. "She's at home cleaning under the fridge - under, not behind it, we've
moved on," he said in a joke about Godfrey Bloom, Ukip's anti-feminist MEP.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 10, 2004

Policy and Politics: Tory anger mounts at 'botched' reshuffle

BYLINE: Sarah Hall Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 330 words


Michael Howard yesterday faced mounting anger from his shadow cabinet over his
surprise reshuffle - and a fresh rebuff as a frontbencher decided to stand down.

Julie Kirkbride, with Caroline Spelman the young, female and photogenic face of
the party, turned down her foreign affairs job yesterday morning less than 18
hours after being demoted from her culture, media and sport brief.

She said her decision was based on a desire to spend more time with her
three-year-old son.

But her departure, eight months before an expected May election, robs Mr Howard
of a valuable asset in his desire to project an image of the party as more
inclusive. Ms Kirkbride has frequently featured alongside him during televised
prime minister's questions.

Her resignation - the day after two key modernisers, Damian Green and John
Bercow, chose to stand down - also came after several shadow cabinet members
complained to Mr Howard's office about being kept in the dark about the changes.

One senior party backbencher said: "There was a real bust-up on Wednesday night
because members of the shadow cabinet didn't know of changes to their teams
until after they had occurred. At least half of the then 14 members had no idea
what was going on."

The reshuffle was seen as a complete surprise. "It's complete bollocks that
anyone knew anything about this," said one former frontbencher.

"This was a piece of sheer opportunism, a bit of macho posturing to say 'Blair's
useless at this but I can do it decisively', and it's backfired spectacularly,"
said a senior backbencher.

A former frontbencher said: "There's a lot of anger, whether it's about John
Redwood coming back, or Damian and John (Bercow) going. This looks like panic
eight months off a general election, when we ought to be trying to look credible
and electable."

MPs viewed Mr Redwood's promotion as a panicked response to Ukip, and the
reshuffle as a sudden response to falling poll figures.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

THIRD TORY RESIGNS AFTER REJECTING HOWARD JOB OFFER

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Julie Kirkbride turned down
foreign role Ian Nicholson

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 549 words


ONE OF Michael Howard's frontbench team has told the Tory leader that she will
refuse to accept his offer of a new job and has resigned from the Shadow
Cabinet.

Julie Kirkbride, who was sacked yesterday as shadow Culture Secretary, has
refused Mr Howard's offer of a job as a foreign affairs spokesman and is said to
regard the offer as an insult. Ms Kirkbride has a three- year-old son and the
role would mean she would spend substantial periods away from him.

Senior Tories accused Mr Howard of trying to cover up the embarrassment of Ms
Kirkbride's rejection because he had lost one of the few women on his front
bench.

An official list of the new Tory frontbench team, published on Wednesday,
included Ms Kirkbride's name as a foreign affairs spokesman. But she apparently
made it clear to David Maclean, the Tory chief whip, that she was not going to
accept the role.

The snub comes amid a growing backlash to the reshuffle, which removed two key
Tory modernisers, John Bercow, shadow International Development Secretary, and
Damian Green, shadow Transport Secretary. They resigned after both being offered
the role of shadow Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs.

Senior Tory MPs from the left and right of the party expressed dismay at the
decision to move the modernisers from their jobs while bringing back John
Redwood, a right-wing Eurosceptic, to the front bench. One frontbench MP
declared that Mr Howard had handed Labour a gift by bringing back Mr Redwood.
"He has written Labour's election poster for them: a picture of Michael Howard
next to John and the words: Remember the Nineties'."

Other modernisers also said that Mr Redwood's return would remind voters of John
Major's failed government. One said of the reshuffle that it "looks like panic".

The decision to recall the arch-Eurosceptic to the Shadow Cabinet is being seen
as an attempt to see off the threat from the United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP), which stands to gain votes from the Tories at the next general election.

Mr Redwood, who is admired for his tenacity and will enter the Shadow Cabinet as
shadow Deregulation Secretary, won plaudits for directly challenging UKIP during
the European election campaign.

Several senior Tory MPs expressed surprise at Mr Howard's decision to move John
Bercow. Mr Howard wrote to Mr Bercow yesterday saying he was sorry that he was
unable to accept a role. The Tory leader said he hoped Mr Bercow would play "a
prominent role" in the next parliament.

Mr Bercow is said to have been moved because he expressed support for Tony Blair
over the war on Iraq in a letter to the Prime Minister in which he urged him to
intervene over the massacres in Darfur, Sudan. The Tory moderniser is expected
to remain a vocal figure in the Commons with interventions on aid policy and
issues such as civil partnerships for gay couples, which will be debated next
week.

Mr Howard is believed to have told his frontbench team they must raise their
game and work harder in the run-up to the next election.

Senior Tories warned that Mr Howard was "foolish" to alienate Mr Bercow, who had
the ability to behave like a sniper if he wished. MPs also expressed dismay
yesterday at the loss of Mr Green, who is popular among his peers.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              101 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

KILROY-SILK SAYS HE WILL STAND AS MP

BYLINE: JON SMITH Robert Kilroy-Silk: Has all the funding he needs'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 180 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the UK Independence Party MEP, declared yesterday that he
would contest a Westminster seat at the next general election. He said his party
had funds to fight any marginal contest it chose.

The former television presenter said he had been pledged "as much as I need" by
various sources to fight seats up and down the country on a platform not just
geared to his party's policy of withdrawal from the European Union.

"That money is in place and it's open ended," he declared.

Immigration, asylum, defence, homeland security, health and a host of other
issues would all be campaign areas, said Mr Kilroy-Silk.

But speaking at a Westminster lunch he declined to say which seat he would fight
at the next election or how many marginals his party would contest. "We are
going to change the face of British politics forever, and I promise you we will
not let the British people down," he told reporters.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he had his eye on a seat in his East Midlands European
constituency, but added it might not be the most winnable.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS Carlo Allegri/Getty Images

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 759 words


Dirty tricks mar by-election to succeed Peter Mandelson

The race to succeed Peter Mandelson as the MP for Hartlepool later this month is
turning into a dirty tricks campaign that would make even the Prince of Darkness
blush.

Labour's first piece of election literature - to be formally released at the
weekend - was printed yesterday, and duly leaked to Pandora. It is devoted to a
character assassination of the Liberal Democrat candidate, Jody Dunn, above.

Headlined "outrage at Liberal Democrat candidate's insult to town", the leaflet
repeats an entry in Dunn's internet diary in which she is supposedly rude about
Hartlepool.

Describing an afternoon campaigning with Simon Hughes, Dunn's entry noted:
"Everyone we met was either drunk, flanked by an angry dog, or undressed."

Labour now claims that "the Liberal Democrat from Darlington has insulted the
people of Hartlepool".

Dunn, for her part, is livid at being targeted by a "negative" campaign. "This
leaflet is sad and ridiculous. The weblog reflects what happens on the campaign
trail," said a spokesman yesterday."

Expect a sharp riposte next week. Meanwhile, the UK Independence Party -
expected to beat the Tories into fourth - have their big guns ready to hijack
any visit Tony Blair makes to the seat.

"We've put Robert Kilroy-Silk on standby. He's ready to take on Blair the moment
he sets foot in the town," I'm told.

Glover becomes a slave to activism

DANNY GLOVER, the Hollywood star who partnered Mel Gibson in Lethal Weapon, has
become quite the activist.

Last month, he was arrested in Washington during a protest outside the Sudanese
embassy. Now he's making a film about Haiti, whose politics he keeps a keen eye
on.

It's a biopic of the Haitian revolutionary Francois Toussaint L'Ouverture, who
led a successful slave revolt on the island in 1802.

"Toussaint's a very important guy, one of the most important guys in history,"
Glover, left, told me at Wednesday night's Screen Nation Film and TV awards.

"If you know who Napoleon is, you should know who Toussaint is. We haven't cast
the film yet, but we're getting the money together."

Meanwhile, Glover is unrepentant about his recent arrest.

"It was a peaceful protest. People are dying out there, and I wanted to draw
attention to that," he added.

Painting a rosy picture

ROSAMUND PIKE, left, is not the jealous sort, but - if she opens the new edition
of Tatler - she could be forgiven for turning a delicate shade of green.

The actress's new boyfriend, a virtually unknown young artist called Henry John,
is the subject of what can only be described as a hagiography, written for the
magazine by one Rosie Garthwaite.

Bizarrely, the article fails to mention a pertinent fact: that Garthwaite just
happens to be the ex-girlfriend of (wait for it) ... Henry John.

Describing a "perfectly formed struggling young artist", Garthwaite says, oddly
in the circumstances, that "at first he seems shy".

"He is good-looking, in that just-tumbled-out-of-bed sort of way," she
concludes.

Ben backs the Brits

A RARE criticism of Kevin Spacey's new era at the Old Vic. The Booker
prize-winning novelist Ben Okri, who also sits on the board of the National
Theatre, reckons that the Hollywood star should make more use of the available
British talent.

"The West End is in a mess, and the reason is that we are missing a whole
generation of new playwrights," he said at a party organised by Vanity Fair and
Dom Perignon.

"Where are the young British playwrights? Where is the talent? Yes, Kevin Spacey
is putting on lots of new plays, but look at the writers of them: they're all
Americans."

Up to a point. The author of Spacey's first production Cloaca is Dutch, and his
second show is a panto, a genre virtually unknown in the US.

My telephone stands to attention. It is the League of Gentlemen star Mark
Gatiss, bemused by Simon Callow's recent comments - reported in this column -
about the forthcoming Dr Who series.

Callow, you may recall, told me he'd been persuaded to play Charles Dickens in
the show, because of the quality of Russell T Davis's script. In fact, the
episode in question was written by Gatiss, pictured in the League of Gentlemen;
Davis will produce it.

Notwithstanding this minor snub, Gatiss says: "I'm delighted to have him on
board, especially as he knows Dickens so well, and says such nice things about
my script. I'm a huge Dr Who fan, so it's a boyhood dream come true."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              103 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Kilroy-Silk to stand as Eurosceptic MP

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 473 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK confirmed yesterday that he will fight a Commons seat at the
general election on a manifesto extending beyond Europe to asylum, immigration
and crime.

He said that he would stand in a marginal constituency in the East Midlands,
where he was elected an MEP for the UK Independence Party in June. One
possibility was Boston and Skegness, a seat held by the Tories with a majority
of just 515 and where the European election results showed that the UKIP came
first with 37.6 per cent of the vote.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said, however, that his aim was to maximise his vote. He had
commissioned analysis of voting patterns across the region and might choose a
seat where the UKIP did not come first but offered a better prospect. He had
wanted to contest the Hartlepool by-election but thought it wrong, so soon after
being elected to represent another area, he said.

He said he had received offers from wealthy UKIP supporters who want to bankroll
candidates for the party in every marginal seat other than those held by MPs who
supported Britain's withdrawal from the European Union.

Addressing a lunch for Westminster journalists at the Parliamentary Press
Gallery, Mr Kilroy-Silk left the impression that he would like to take personal
charge of the UKIP's general election campaign. He declared: "I have been
promised money to fight every single marginal in that region and any other seat
where we can have an impact."

The money would be there "ready for me to press the button", Mr Kilroy-Silk
said, and would be available both for the general election campaign and for the
referendum on the European constitution.

When asked if he would like to lead the UKIP, however, he said: "We have a very
good leader." Roger Knapman, a former Tory MP who was elected UKIP leader two
years ago, has a much lower profile than Mr Kilroy-Silk and Nigel Farage, leader
of the party's 11 MEPs.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that the UKIP would fight the election not just on its core
message of withdrawal from Europe but on a range of issues about which many
ordinary people felt let down by established political parties. These were
immigration, asylum, crime, defence and security, plus tax, pensions and health.

The UKIP has a hard-line position on immigration. Its website claims that
Britain is "full up" and the arrival of 200,000 immigrants in 2002 and several
thousand asylum-seekers adds considerably to social tensions. It says that no
asylum claims should be entertained from countries with multi-party democracies
or where international peacekeepers were deployed, and that people refused
refugee status should be deported within two weeks.

Mr Kilroy-Silk denied, however, that he or the UKIP were racist and said that
the accusation came from lazy journalists from a metropolitan political elite.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Howard faces backlash for rightward retreat into Tory ghetto

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 541 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was accused of retreating into the "Tory ghetto" yesterday after
a frontbench reshuffle which saw the re-emergence of the veteran Eurosceptic
John Redwood and the departure of leading party modernisers.

One casualty from Wednesday's shake-up told The Times that the Conservative
leader had made a "decisive lurch rightwards" which signalled the end of "any
ambition to win the next election by widening the party's appeal beyond its core
vote".

The former Shadow Cabinet member suggested that the shift was a panic measure
resulting from the UK Independence Party's success in squeezing Tory support in
this summer's European elections.

Mr Redwood's re-entry into the Shadow Cabinet after an absence of four years, as
the party's spokesman on deregulation, has been greeted with particular dismay.

Ian Taylor, one of a diminishing band of pro-European Tories, said: "This will
remind voters of why they disliked us so much in the past. We have to reach out
to a wider audience and it is extraordinary that just as Labour brings back
modernisers like Alan Milburn, our modernisers are being moved out."

The backlash was given added force yesterday by Julie Kirkbride, who told Mr
Howard that she had changed her mind overnight about accepting a demotion from
Shadow Culture Secretary to a junior foreign affairs post.

Friends said she had been "knifed" by Guy Black, the Tory leader's
communications chief, because of a newspaper report suggesting that she took too
many overseas trips.

John Bercow, a strong advocate of socially liberal policies, also turned down
alternative job offers after being dismissed as Shadow International Development
Secretary. His demise was rumoured to have been prompted by complaints from the
farming lobby that he was too left-wing on the reform of agricultural subsidies.

Mr Howard's office claimed yesterday that it was surprised by the reaction.
Aides said the reshuffle had been balanced by the promotion of rising young
stars such as David Cameron, who enters the top team as policy co-ordinator, and
George Osborne, who becomes Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury.

But one leading critic said: "Cameron is still very right-wing even if he does
not always wear a tie."

Another added: "The whole tone of the reshuffle was to go back to traditional
ground, reinforcing our obession about Europe and voters' impression of us going
backwards. That is why we have Redwood coming back and (Nicholas) Soames
promoted to the Shadow Cabinet as Defence Secretary."

Mr Howard also appears to have upset rightwingers such as Howard Flight, who is
said to be angry at losing his shadow Treasury post to Mr Osborne just as his
work on the party's waste-busting report was coming to fruition.

The discontent comes against a backdrop of plummeting party morale after a
summer in which Mr Howard's political honeymoon came to a halt. His performances
in the Commons have been criticised by colleagues as ineffectual while key
policies on health and education have made little impact.

Aides say that they hope Mr Redwood, along with a more trenchant policy stance
on Europe and crime, will help to persuade UKIP supporters to come back into the
Tory fold.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Two lessons in how not to shuffle your pack

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 882 words


Both reshuffles were botched, but at least Labour strengthened its team

IF TONY BLAIR or Michael Howard held executive jobs in the private sector, they
would have lost them by now. In senior posts you have to be good at people
management, and both party leaders have proved in their reshuffles that they are
woefully bad at it.

Mr Howard offered the same job consecutively to three people on Wednesday, and
two of them turned it down and left the front bench altogether. John Bercow, the
Shadow International Development Secretary, was asked to move to constitutional
affairs at 4pm. He told Mr Howard that it was a non-job and he did not want it.

Damian Green, the Shadow Transport Secretary, was made the same offer at 6pm and
gave the same response. Finally -proving that it was a non-job -Mr Howard had to
roll it into Oliver Heald's portfolio.

That was not the only shambles. Many Shadow Cabinet members were not consulted
about who was to be appointed to their teams. Nicholas Soames, the Shadow
Defence Secretary, discovered only by reading the Central Office press release.
Meanwhile, Julie Kirkbride, the sensible Shadow Culture Secretary, was demoted
one day and resigned the next. So through bad management, three moderate and
modernising shadow ministers have left the Tory front bench. In any normal
organisation, they could sue for constructive dismissal.

But it is not as if the Labour reshuffle was handled much better. All through
August, gossip circulated that Andrew Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary,
and Ian McCartney, the party chairman, were destined for the chop. Downing
Street did nothing about it.

Only on Monday, when Mr Blair met Mr Smith, did he try to reassure the minister.

"I'm really pleased to see you," he said, "because I've just seen all this stuff
in the papers and I want to tell you that your job is completely safe." Too
late: Mr Smith had decided to go.

Mr McCartney's job, meanwhile, was under threat. The Labour Party chairman is a
great negotiator and soothes party activists and trade unions, but he is no
party spokesman. Viewers need subtitles to decipher his accent. After the May
elections, people in No 10 complained that they needed a chairman whom they
could put on radio and TV.

The idea was not to dismiss Mr McCartney but to move him sideways. That was when
John Prescott protested. On party matters, Mr Blair often yields to his deputy.
He returned to plan A, which was to bring Alan Milburn into the Cabinet as
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster -in effect, policy supremo, election
planner and minister for the airwaves.

This was decided only at the last minute. The Prime Minister had approached Mr
Milburn earlier in the summer to ask whether he would consider returning to
Government. Mr Milburn said no. But over the holidays, he decided that he
should, after all, go back and help with the election. Last week, he told Mr
Blair that he was up for it.

This, however, was bound to lead to ructions. For Mr Milburn's relations with
Gordon Brown have been extremely testy. And Mr Brown sees himself as the
election supremo. He understandably resented having one of his archrivals
appointed to oversee the manifesto and plan the campaign.

On Wednesday, the Chancellor looked murderous at Prime Minister's Questions.

Yesterday, he sat totally silent in Cabinet. But afterwards he had a long talk
with the Prime Minister, and emerged rather more cheerful. Mr Blair must have
reassured Mr Brown that he would still be heavily involved in the election.

Equally, the Prime Minister is adamant that he appoints ministers on merit, not
by faction. And both Mr Milburn and Alan Johnson, the new Work and Pensions
Secretary, are undeniably able men.

Mr Milburn has had time to reflect, in the 15 months that he has spent out of
the Cabinet, on his strengths and weaknesses. He knows that he has a tendency to
be confrontational. But he also knows that he has to learn to be more emollient
and, in particular, not to tweak the Chancellor's tail. On the radio yesterday,
he took great pains to sound conciliatory.

As Mr Blair left No 10 for the North East yesterday, he remarked to his staff,
"There may have been a lot of stuff and nonsense, but in the end we've got a
stronger team." He is right about the stuff and nonsense, most of which should
have been avoided. But he is also right about the stronger team. And that is the
difference between his reshuffle and Mr Howard's.

To bring John Redwood into the Shadow Cabinet is the worst mistake that the Tory
leader has so far made. The sight of Mr Redwood is anathema to the floating
voter.

I can already envisage Labour's election posters: a photo of Mr Howard and Mr
Redwood with the slogan "Remember the good old days?"

The Tory leader presumably believes that Mr Redwood's presence will claw back
some of the vote that has leached away to the UK Independence Party. But it will
repel twice as many moderate voters.

After all the stuff and nonsense on both sides, one fact is clear. Mr Blair has
reshuffled his party towards the political centre and Mr Howard has reshuffled
his away from the centre. As any fool knows, elections are won in the centre,
not on the extremes.

maryann.sieghart@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 9, 2004, Thursday

GAY CONSERVATIVE TRIUMPHS IN BITTER DESELECTION VOTE

BYLINE: ARIFA AKBAR AND CHRISTIAN BOULTON Ashley Crossley before last night's
deselection meeting

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 469 words


THE GAY Conservative parliamentary candidate Ashley Crossley appeared jubilant
last night after an "overwhelming majority" voted against his deselection in a
dispute tainted by allegations of homophobia.

Mr Crossley made a robust five-minute speech in front of 265 members of the
Falmouth and Camborne Conservative Association to fight for the candidacy he won
unanimously in November 2003.

After the result of the secret ballot was announced, he spoke briefly about the
"difficult weeks" leading up to the vote and thanked the party leader, Michael
Howard, and the party chairman, Liam Fox, for their support. He expressed more
bitterness towards his opponents, including John Ager, who proposed the motion
for deselection, and the 66 party members who signed a petition calling for his
deselection.

Mr Crossley said: "I would like to thank everyone who voted for me. Now that the
deselection is over, we can move on and continue a very successful campaign
highlighting the positive policies that the Conservative Party can bring."

But few would argue the claim of homophobia and vicious infighting could be a
vote-puller for the local Conservatives. His opponents were in no mood to
display a unified spirit after the two-hour meeting at a hotel in the Cornish
port of Falmouth.

Mike Varney, a local councillor and a suspended executive member of the party,
said: "I genuinely believe he is not the man for the job. He might be nice to
the people out in the streets, but he is difficult to work with. And why should
Mr Howard get involved? I don't feel I can put this behind me for the sake of
party unity."

Mr Varney was one of eight executive members suspended in July after members of
the management team promoted UKIP and failed to censure an alleged homophobic
remark during an meeting at which Mr Varney jokingly referred to Mr Crossley's
boyfriends. But last night he defended the "light- hearted" nature of his remark
and denied it was homophobic."

Mr Crossley was considered one of the party's brightest prospects when at 31 he
was selected to stand for the key marginal seat in Cornwall.

An Oxford-educated barrister, he embodies the Conservative ideal, and as a gay
man with a partner of 13 years, represented the "inclusive" face of the party
that Mr Howard has been keen to promote.

There are suggestions the dispute began over Mr Crossley's decision to support
Conservative Central Office over the suspension of the eight executive members
for showing an anti-Europe video used by UKIP. But opponents said they merely
lost confidence in him and some were even aggrieved he had not declared his
homosexuality.

Mr Crossley has said he has never attempted to hide his sexuality and that as a
Truro-born candidate, his background was well-known and accepted.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 8, 2004, Wednesday

Poll called for Labour's rally

BYLINE: David Charter Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 357 words


Labour is to call the Hartlepool by-election for the Thursday of its party
conference in a bullish sign of confidence that it can retain Peter Mandelson's
seat.

The move comes after the Tories switched Michael Howard's main speech at their
party conference from Thursday to Tuesday to avoid a clash if the poll was
called on the last day of their own gathering.

Labour Party managers had toyed with the idea of holding the by-election on
October 7, so that headlines in Friday morning's papers would eclipse the last
day of the Tory conference. They are now prepared, however, to gamble that the
result will be worse for the Tories than it will be for them. Holding the
by-election on September 30 will mean that the result hangs over the entire
Conservative conference.

The move carries some risk because a Labour loss would mark a sour end to the
party's own conference. The last day of Labour's conference has traditionally
been a quieter day, however, after Tony Blair's address on the Tuesday. Labour
strategists believe that choosing the Thursday of their own conference would
also send out a signal of confidence in Iain Wright, the party's candidate in
Hartlepool.

The main challenge to Mr Mandelson's 14,571 majority is perceived to be from
Jodie Dunn, the Liberal Democrat candidate, and Labour is determined not to hand
the party another publicity coup, as the Brent East by-election did last year.
Sarah Teather overturned Labour's 13,047 majority to win the North London seat
on the eve of the Lib Dem conference, at which she was feted by Charles Kennedy,
the party leader.

Jeremy Middleton, the Tory hopeful in Hartlepool, faces the prospect of coming
third or fourth. Labour, the Lib Dems and the UK Independence Party all had
their campaigns under way much faster than the Conservatives. This result would
embarrass the Tories, who have been claiming to be making inroads into urban
constituencies.

Holding the by-election on September 30 would also bring the additional benefit
of imposing an extra level of discipline on Labour members at the last
conference before the next general election.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 7, 2004, Tuesday

Boost for Kennedy as Blair and Howard slip

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 468 words


Charles Kennedy and the Liberal Democrats have been the main gainers as both
Labour and the Conservatives have lost support since this time last year.

This is shown by a new Populus poll for The Times, undertaken over the weekend,
before the return of Parliament today and the start of the party conference
season.

Labour support is unchanged since last month at 32 per cent. Its rating has been
flat since late spring, but this represents a seven-point drop since September
2003.

Tory support, which has also been on a plateau since Easter, has fallen by two
points over the past month to 30 per cent, compared with 34 per cent a year ago.

The Liberal Democrats, up two points over the past month to 26 per cent, are
seven points up on last year.

Taking all published polls since April, the Tories are now doing no better under
Michael Howard (averaging 33 per cent) than in the same period last year under
Iain Duncan Smith (33.3 per cent).

Labour is also less popular than last year, averaging 34 per cent over the past
six months, down from 35.5 per cent in the same period last year. On the same
basis, the Lib Dems have averaged about 22 per cent over the past six months,
fractionally up from 21.4 per cent in the same period of 2003.

These trends are matched in the leader index, which asks voters to rate leaders
on a nought-to-ten scale. Tony Blair's rating has dropped slightly and, at 4.84,
is at its lowest point since the index began early last year. His rating has
fallen recently more among Labour voters than among the public generally.

Michael Howard's rating has also slipped, for the second month in succession,
and at 4.44 is near its lowest level since he became Conservative leader last
autumn.

Mr Howard's rating among Tory supporters has improved over the past month (from
6.36 to 6.68), though this is still lower than it was in the spring.

Mr Kennedy's rating is virtually unchanged over the past month and, at 5.05, is
clearly above the other two.

Just over a third of voters (35 per cent) are swing or floating voters who are
either undecided or say they may change their party preferences before the next
general election. The poll implies a general election turnout of 60 per cent.

The latest poll confirms the continuing high level of support for "others" at 12
per cent, unchanged over the past month. While the detailed breakdown of
"others" has to be treated with some caution, the poll suggests that support for
the UK Independence Party has subsided from 5 per cent last month to 2 per cent
now.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,009 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between September 3 and 5. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 5, 2004

The campaign of hate set to oust gay Tory: Homophobia clouds deselection vote
for Howard's candidate in Cornwall

BYLINE: Mark Townsend

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1091 words


THE CALLER stayed on Pat's line long enough to denounce her son as a 'queer who
should be put in a dustbin and pissed on'.

When the phone rang she had hoped for another Tory well-wisher offering support
for Ashley Crossley, the gay Conservative candidate seeking to secure a winnable
seat in west Cornwall. She was half right: the voice did belong to a staunch
Tory.

But it was one hellbent on destroying the political career of Crossley, hailed
as the fresh-faced future of the Tories and one of Michael Howard's brightest
prospects, before it has barely begun.

In three days, the Conservative Association of Falmouth and Camborne will vote
on whether to deselect the 31-year-old barrister amid a backdrop of homophobic
bullying. The Observer has uncovered a campaign of systematic anti-gay abuse,
allegedly involving Conservative supporters, that has divided the fishing town
of Falmouth.

Crossley's team believes Tory hardliners are behind pictures of the 31-year-old
defaced with pink lipstick and Hitler-style moustaches and a tirade of
name-calling - queer and bender being the preferred terms.

The young politician was even locked out of his constituency office for weeks
after locks were mysteriously changed amid claims Tories have tried to sabotage
his campaigning work.

Crossley's critics admit they had no idea he was gay when they elected him as
their candidate for a key three-way marginal seat with a Labour majority of
4,500.

Not only does so-called 'Falmouthgate' threaten to destabilise Howard's claims
of greater inclusivity but the saga shines light on the extent of homophobia
still prevalent in the provinces.

'This hotbed of right-wing conservatism is in no way unique to Falmouth,' said
Jenny Broughton, of Exeter-based group, Families and Friends of Lesbians and
Gays.

As London-based Crossley is discovering, being gay in the south west is not for
the faint-hearted. There are more than 8,000 homophobic attacks a year in Devon
and Cornwall, where almost 70 per cent of homosexuals hide their sexuality
behind the badge of a traditional marriage, according to Broughton. Last month
local police announced a scheme to make the reporting of attacks on gay men
easier. 'It is fairly constant, ranging from name-calling to physical abuse to
the murder of an elderly gay man in Plymouth,' added Broughton.

By 9pm this Wednesday, Crossley's fledgling political future could be over. In
the previous 90 minutes, the 650 members of the Conservative Association will
arrive at the plush ballroom of the Falmouth Hotel and decide whether to stick
with him.

Most in Falmouth anticipate a tight vote. Already 66 association members, the 10
per cent required to force a deselection poll, have signed a petition declaring
a loss of confidence in the political ability of their gay candidate. 'There's
loads more behind us,' said one.

Crossley cut an anxious figure last week. 'Of course I'm nervous. I expect it to
get very ugly. This whole business is not very pleasant,' he told The Observer
while nursing a diet Coke in his local near the village of Penpol where his
family has lived for 25 years.

Like his many supporters, Crossley often reflects how the row over his sexuality
has tainted not only the Tories, but the Cornish too.

Falmouth itself has very few 'poufs' according to the town's dedicated throng of
afternoon drinkers. Three men seemed to constitute its gay population although
the nearby village of Flushing was described as a lesbian ghetto. 'It's only a
small place but they've become accepted,' said Natalie, bar manager of the
Legion. In Falmouth there are no gay bars and rumours of a gay night in the
upstairs of the Wodehouse Arms were soon dispelled. 'Half-price drinks were
probably advertised and everybody turned the other way for the night, that's the
sort of place it is. But we do get coachloads of poufs from time to time,' said
a local.

Amid the hard-drinking dens that line the port, Crossley's plight was greeted
with unswerving sympathy. Patrons smothered in inky mermaid tattoos and
three-day stubble were ashamed their town's reputation for hospitality had been
besmirched by the spat over sexuality.

'I don't care if he's queer, if he's a good lad with good policies for the town
then we're all for him,' said former merchant seaman Sam. 'We don't care what he
is - gay, lesbian, whatever. It doesn't matter to any of us,' said another
sucking the froth from a pint of D-Day 60 ale. His sentiments were echoed in the
Admiral Nelson, where the barmaid added: 'It's not a big story to us that he's
gay.'

But for Falmouth's Conservatives, the story is securing rare headlines in a
traditional Labour stronghold.

Yet those Tories suspected of homophobia stress Crossley's sexuality is not an
issue, instead claiming they have quickly lost faith in the nous of the man they
chose from 17 candidates only last November. Others condemn Crossley as
sanctimonious and too far removed from the region's issues.

It all began when Crossley backed a Central Office decision earlier this summer
to suspend the eight-strong management team of the constituency for allegedly
promoting a United Kingdom Independence Party video. 'He (Crossley) dropped us
in the shit with Central Office and I quite frankly don't believe in playing the
gay card,' said one of the team.

Another of those suspended, local councillor Mike Varney, admitted to The
Observer to having joked about Crossley's boyfriends in public meetings and
accused the candidate of hiding his homosexuality.

'I didn't even know he was gay until three or four days after he was elected.
He's the one with the problem, why wasn't he shouting the fact that he was gay
from the rafters,' said Varney, who in 10 days' time will attend an appeal
against the decision to suspend them.

'They think we are just local imbeciles who will quiver in the corner and that
couldn't be further from the truth,' he added.

What is certain is that he and his supporters will be far from timid this
Wednesday evening in the ballroom. Success for Crossley will provoke a bitter
reaction. 'If he isn't sacked I'll be gutted, gobsmacked,' added Varney who is
furious that Howard publicly backed him.

Just nine per cent of the pink vote was secured by the Tories at the last two
general elections and the shadow leader wants more.

Whatever the outcome this week, it is unlikely a fresh tranche of gay electors
will have been seduced by a Tory party preaching increased inclusivity.


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 3, 2004

Electors unsure as 'safe bet' north-east assembly vote draws near

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington Regional affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 544 words


Campaigning for England's first regional devolution referendum began yesterday
with a glitzy launch in Durham city and an opinion poll showing relatively
strong support for an elected assembly in the north-east.

But rolling out a string of supporting personalities, from the former Olympic
athlete and commentator Brendan Foster, to the president of Newcastle United,
Sir John Hall, the group Yes 4 the North East acknowledged that many electors
were unsure of their views two months before the all-postal ballot.

Yesterday's ICM poll for the group, among 1,000 electors in the north-east,
found that while 48% would back an assembly - one broadly similar to the Greater
London Authority - 27% were against it. But the 25% undecided will determine the
outcome of the November 4 referendum.

Guests packed into Durham's town hall, which could provide the home for a
25-member assembly, to the sound of the Manchester band M People reinforcing the
slogan "Vote for the North East - be proud, be positive".

Mr Foster told the audience that the north-east needed a strong voice to counter
the centralist tendencies of the government and the growing strength of London
and the south-east. "There is no strategy for the region," he said. "I am sure
the north-east wants to control its own destiny. This is make or break, a once
in a lifetime opportunity."

In July, the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, who has campaigned for
England's devolution, postponed the plans for referendums in the north-west and
Yorkshire. This came after pressure from Downing Street following a rebellion by
backbench Labour MPs who claimed referendums would be a damaging distraction for
the government seven months before a likely general election. But the
north-east, less marginal than the other regions, was considered to be a safer
bet.

Today marks the deadline for organisations, such as Yes 4 the North East, to
apply to the Electoral Commission for designation as official campaign groups,
each eligible for £100,000 of public funds. While only one yes campaign has
emerged, the commission needs to decide between two no campaigns. One is led by
the Sunderland "metric martyr" Neil Herron, and the other is funded largely by
the old north-east establishment and veteran businessmen, including the former
transport magnate Sir Tom Cowie.

The commission will make a final decision around September 14 when groups will
be reminded that spending will be capped at £665,000 - if they can raise that
much cash - including the £100,000 public grant.

In addition, political parties will face spending caps based on their share of
the vote in the last local elections in the north-east. Labour and the Liberal
Democrats, which will both campaign for a yes vote, will be allowed to spend no
more than £665,000 and £400,000 respectively, while the Tories and the UK
Independence party, in the no camp, will be capped at £400,000 each.

To further complicate the process, individuals too can register with the
commission and will be able to spend up to £100,000 each. This has raised fears
among commission officials that wealthy individuals will be able to exploit the
process by spreading money around sympathisers while remaining anonymous.


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 02, 2004, Thursday

Opinion poll tells Aitken not to stand for UKIP

BYLINE: BY CELIA WALDEN

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 27

LENGTH: 161 words

A bad sign for Jonathan Aitken if he hopes to win back his old Thanet South seat
for the UK Independence Party at the next general election.

News reaches Spy of an opinion poll just conducted by Populus suggesting that
the former cabinet minister will come fourth - albeit with a respectable 16per
cent - if he decides to stand for UKIP in the Kent constituency.

Since being barred from applying for the Conservative nomination in the seat,
Aitken has transferred his allegiances to UKIP and is now considering whether to
don its rosette in his old stomping ground.

"I'm pondering on it, but I'm in no hurry to make a decision," he tells Spy.

As for the poll, he adds: "It won't change my decision either way. I'm far too
old a hand to be influenced by an early poll."

Not that the Populus survey is good news for the Tories, either: it suggests
that the party's former chief executive, Mark MacGregor, can expect to lose to
Labour by a narrow margin.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              112 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 2, 2004

Letter: Dancing to Ukips tune

BYLINE: Chris Coates

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 53 words


My brother-in-law's father, a lifelong Guardian reader, started taking the
Telegraph when he retired, on the grounds that the all-consuming rage he felt on
reading Boris Johnson would keep him alert (Letters, September 1). He's well
into his seventies now, so something's working.

Chris Coates

London


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 2, 2004, Thursday

ASYLUM AND ECONOMIC FEARS END BARROSO'S HONEYMOON

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Mr Barroso's line-up has been labelled
unbalanced

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 551 words


THE INCOMING European Commission came under fire yesterday from senior members
of the European Parliament, ending the political honeymoon of its president,
Jose Manuel Barroso.

The backlash followed comments on immigration by the incoming Italian
Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, Rocco Buttiglione. They also
reflected criticism in France that Mr Barroso distributed too many senior jobs
to economic liberals, who are keen to press for further deregulation. Daniel
Cohn-Bendit, joint leader of the Greens in the Parliament, described the
Commission as "far more unbalanced politically than any other".

Paris and Berlin were perceived to have lost out in the carve-up of jobs last
month, as the main posts of competition, internal market and trade went to
nominees from countries with a reputation for liberal economics: the
Netherlands, Ireland and the UK.

The complaints are significant because all 24 commissioners face hearings in the
European Parliament this month before their appointment is approved and they
start work in November. MEPs cannot reject specific commissioners, although they
do have a "nuclear" option of throwing out the whole team - something they are
unlikely to do. A negative verdict on any individual would still prove
politically damaging.

Most criticism yesterday was reserved for Mr Buttiglione who, in a series of
interviews, revived the idea once championed by Tony Blair of processing asylum
application to European countries in special camps outside the EU. Mr
Buttiglione also floated the idea of establishing a new category of economic
refugees who could be allowed into EU countries. The comments have infuriated
some MEPs because they voted against the idea of asylum camps, which has since
been quietly dropped.

Graham Watson, leader of the Liberal Democrats in the Parliament, said: "I am of
the view that it was rather unwise of him to go public on an issue in his
dossier before he was approved, and to argue for something that was rejected by
Parliament. If he is seeking confrontation with parliament he can expect a rocky
ride."

Hans-Gert Pottering, the leader of centre-right group that has most MEPs in the
Parliament, said he had an open mind on the camp plan but rejected accepting
economic refugees. "We cannot solve the problems of the world in Europe," he
said.

The camp plan was also rejected by Mr Cohn-Bendit, who said that people would be
consigned to "catastrophic conditions" in countries including Libya. He added
that the political make-up of the Commission was so unbalanced that Green MEPs
would be pushed into open opposition.

He expressed specific concern about the stance of Britain's incoming
Commissioner for Trade, Peter Mandelson. "We want to know what are his views on
globalisation," Mr Cohn-Bendit said.

Appointed by the controversial Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, Mr
Buttiglione can expect to find himself one of the main targets for the left. Mr
Mandelson is expected to face a sharp questioning from Eurosceptic Conservative
MEPs and from the UK Independence Party.

More alarming for Mr Barroso is the perception in France and Germany that he
allocated too many top posts to free- marketeers, and the fear that relations
with Paris and Berlin will prove difficult.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              114 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 2, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: A NAZI PAST AND A MULTICULTURAL FUTURE

BYLINE: JEREMY NOAKES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 274 words


Sir: Angela Lambert has been on holiday in southern Bavaria and used her
experience of the lack of ethnic diversity in a very exceptional part of Germany
to make wild generalisations about Germany's need to "join the present-day
multicultural, multiracial, inter-marrying reality of 21st-century planet Earth"
(Opinion, 31 August).

First, Berchtesgaden is not Bavaria, an enormous state which includes major
cities such as Munich, Nuremberg, and Augsburg, where she would have been able
to see thousands of people from ethnic minorities. Secondly, her comments are
unfair even to rural Bavaria. The family of a German colleague of mine, whose
wife is from Papua New Guinea and who has mixed- race children, lives in a small
village in the countryside near Bayreuth in Bavaria, an area which has a
right-wing reputation. The family is totally integrated into the village and
meets with no prejudice whatsoever.

While it is true that Berchtesgaden itself was very Nazi, that was hardly
surprising given the fact that it was Hitler's home. However, in most of the
rest of southern Bavaria the Nazi vote was below average, as it is staunchly
Catholic and, therefore, more voters preferred the Catholic Centre party.

This is not to say that Bavaria in general and southern Bavaria in particular
are beacons of enlightenment. It is a conservative state with conservative
values. However, before Ms Lambert makes any more such criticism, I suggest she
comes down to the West Country, where she will find areas where there are also
no black faces to be seen and where the vote for Ukip is extremely high!

JEREMY NOAKES

Exeter

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              115 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 1, 2004

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 489 words


THE UK Independence Party has scheduled its party conference for maximum
exposure.

Delegates will confer at Colston Hall, Bristol, on the first weekend in October,
straight after Labour's conference in Brighton and just before the Tories in
Bournemouth. UKIP's cheesy conference theme is Celebration, since it bagged 16
per cent of the vote in the European elections in June. A source says: 'The
Tories can give up hoping that UKIP will stop snapping at their heels. They will
certainly take the opportunity to whip Europe up to challenge Michael Howard on
the issue in Bournemouth.' CONCERN for the sensibilities of Republican delegates
at this week's convention in New York is meticulous. Finding that the usual
bottles of Heinz ketchup were absent from the dining room of the Doubletree
Hotel, a diner requested some, which the waiter brought in a dish. 'We were
afraid the Heinz bottles would offend the delegates staying here,' explains a
spokesman. Is it thought that the poor boobies will choke on their ketchup when
they remember Democrat candidate John Kerry is married to Heinz heiress, Teresa?

THE splendidly imperious actress Penelope Keith OBE, 64 (pictured), memorable as
Margo in The Good Life and Audrey fforbes-Hamilton in To The Manor Born, is back
on the boards portraying Madame Arcati, the barmy old spiritualist medium in a
revival of Sir Noel Coward's comedy, Blithe Spirit.

Coronation Street star Elizabeth Bradley once recalled Ms Keith's first West End
venture into the works of Coward, back in 1986, when she appeared in Hay Fever.
Coming offstage one night, Ms Bradley was 'astonished' to find her speeches
being timed with a stopwatch by Keith's husband, ex-policeman Rodney Timson, to
stop her hogging the limelight.

GUESTS at the Guardian dinner in Edinburgh for the International Television
Festival on Saturday night were surprised to find the Lord Chancellor, tubby
Lord Falconer, lurking outside the Hallion club with his spin doctor after
midnight. The pair were waiting to tell Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger and TV
news chiefs about his plans to allow television cameras to film court cases.
'Have they have nothing better to do than loiter outside dinner?,' said one
executive.

IN his memoirs Acting My Life, published today, Sir Ian Holm recalls a fruity
dinner he had with Sir John Gielgud whilst playing Nelson in Terence Rattigan's
A Bequest To The Nation in 1970. 'There was a rumour he'd been asked to play
Nelson, so I asked him about it,' says Holm. 'He looked at me and giggled. 'My
dear boy,' he said, 'I'm too old, too tall, I'd have lost Trafalgar and I
certainly couldn't **** Emma.''' HELEN Boaden, who was appointed the first woman
director of BBC News last month, is determined to make two changes. She is said
to be infuriated by the tendency among news presenters to say chattily to
correspondents: 'Hello there' and 'Thank you very much indeed'.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              116 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 01, 2004, Wednesday

Now UKIP targets Letwin's seat

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 141 words

After I recently revealed that a group of rebel Tories is targeting Oliver
Letwin's wafer-thin majority in West Dorset, news reaches Spy of an even more
serious threat to the shadow chancellor.

Next week, the UK Independence Party - which didn't even stand when Letwin
scraped back into the Commons with a 1,400 majority in 2001 - is setting up its
first branch in his constituency.

"I envisage that we'll put up a candidate and see Letwin lose his seat," says
Peter Watson, UKIP chairman in North Dorset.

"He may be a nice guy, but I'm not sure he's a political strategist. I don't
think he grasps how serious a threat the European Union poses to people's
liberty in this country."

Could Letwin yet avert the UKIP threat?

"If he finds his backbone, anything is possible," adds Watson, "but for now he's
got competition on his hands."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              117 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 1, 2004

Society: Crowd control: Despite fears that the far right will jump on the
bandwagon, respected figures are now calling for public debate on how a
predicted population explosion in the UK will be devastating for sustainable
development. Walter Schwarz reports

BYLINE: Walter Schwarz

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1198 words


Only professional jeremiahs of overpopulation, such as Crispin Tickell and
Jonathan Porritt, noticed the forecast last week that Britain would have 4
million extra people by 2025, plus a further 1.5 million by 2050 - a 10% rise in
the lifetime of our children. The UK is the only major European population still
growing.

Public debate on population is so preoccupied with the social impact of
immigration that nobody asks how we will support 66 million consumers of energy,
housing and driving space on the roads. Already we have 631 people per square
mile in the UK (993 in England) - more than twice as many as France, and the
highest density in Europe after the Netherlands. China's population density is
352.

Yet the new forecast from the US-based Population Reference Bureau attracted no
comment from our government, which has barely begun to shape a population
policy, as distinct from an immigration policy, which it says sets "no upper
limits".

Tickell and Porritt are patrons of the Optimum Population Trust (OPT), which
takes a deeper look at the issue. It argues that the government's hopes for
sustainable development in food, clean water, healthy soil and a stable climate
will be dashed if the population is not reduced from 60 million to 52.5 million
by 2050, and possibly to 30 million by 2121.

The OPT demands firm action against unintended pregnancies, particularly among
teenagers, and extra support for the raising of small families. The average
British woman chooses to have 1.7 children; in Italy and Spain it is 1.2.

Unabashed at sharing some opinions with the British National Party, the UK
Independence Party and the Daily Mail, the OPT wants net immigration brought
down to zero. Immigration has been the main contributor to recent UK population
growth and is projected to account for more than 80% of future growth.

Two years ago, 360,000 people left the UK and 513,000 came in - a net
immigration of 153,000. The government expects the influx to be lower when the
figures for 2003 are released, but natural increase - the excess of births over
deaths - is expected to rise from 62,500 in 2002 to 83,000.

The OPT has been a voice in the wilderness, but in recent weeks officials have
begun replying to its emails and even inviting its input on the future of
farming. Tickell, who is director of Oxford's Green College environmental policy
centre, does not support OPT's ambition to reduce net immigration to zero, but
he does want to stem the flow by discouraging migrants and refugees from coming
to Europe. He argues: "We should give aid at the European level to the countries
where refugees originate - especially aid in population policies."

Porritt agrees that most of the expected increase will be caused by immigration,
"plus a bit of demographic pressure". But, unlike the OPT, he accepts the
government's current immigration policy for humanitarian reasons and because
immigrants will help the economy. "I don't think they're letting too many people
in," he says. "Population talk is far too tied up with immigration and racism.
The fact is that we are nearly in balance. We're not showing hundreds of
thousands coming in."

Porritt, who drafted the Ecology party's demographic policy in 1976, can claim
to be the doyen of the population prophets. Now, as chairman of the Sustainable
Development Commission, he is an influential critic who blames the government
for not having a population policy.

"The next sustainable development strategy paper is due in March, but will
population even feature in it? This government is not doing enough to make a
difference. We need more energetic policies on fertility management, which could
give us a net reduction even with the present rate of immigration. People should
be made to understand that their commitment to the world includes not having too
many children."

The OPT appears relatively untroubled that its two famous patrons disagree with
its aim to stop immigration in its tracks. The trust's starkest warnings come
from its research coordinator, Andrew Ferguson, a retired air-line pilot who
calculates that Britain will only be sustainable when its pop ulation is brought
down to 20 million or, at most, 30 million. "Only by extravagant use of fossil
fuel can we support 60 million people, let alone 65 million," Ferguson says. "As
we run out, we will have to go back to old methods of making energy, and that
will need lots more space - wood burning, hydroelectric and, to a far lesser
extent, wind and solar."

Most OPT pundits belittle the prospects of renewable energy - "too many energy
fantasists", says Ferguson. Most accept the revival of nuclear power as
inevitable, but insist that the drawbacks, especially the hazards of radioactive
waste, make it a least-worst option and no substitute for curbs on population.

Ferguson, who sits on teenage pregnancy panels, points out that, with 40,000
such births a year, the UK leads Europe in the field, "beating even Holland -
and we are six times worse than Holland".

The trust shows little embarrassment at sharing some of its platform with
anti-immigrant agitators. "We have nothing in common with the racists, and if
there are social problems of immigration we don't get into that," says John
Guillebaud, researcher in reproductive health at University College London, who
is co-chair of OPT. "Genuine asylum seekers and others reasonably admitted can
be black, khaki, purple or green, as long as we bring immigration and emigration
into balance and control teenage pregnancies over five to six generations. Given
the below-replacement average family size chosen by women in this country, that
could bring the UK to 30 million by 2130."

He agrees that restricting immigra tion could worsen Britain's already
problematic age structure, and "we may give up economic advantage in excluding
potential workers who are promising, or willing to do jobs we ourselves don't
want to do - but here the end would justify the means: we have to think of the
bigger picture. Increasing the population of a seriously overcrowded country is
just crazy."

Rosamund McDougal, a family planning expert and a co-chair of OPT, argues that
the race issue is "simply irrelevant".

"I'd rather have 40 million people in the UK and half of them black than 100
million all white," she says. "We can't affect the death rate - we can't go
around shooting people. What we can do is cut down unwanted births and
immigration that we cannot sustain."

At last, she thinks, the message is getting through to government. "We were
unheard of, our emails got no reply, then the penny dropped," she says. "Defra
(the Department of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) used to be hostile,
but now wants our input on rural scenarios; we argue that the notion of farmers
as paid keepers of the landscape is nonsense because we're going to need the
land for energy."

Best of all, a letter arrived from the Treasury promising that the current
review of the sustainable development strategy will "consider what the
challenges are, including in relation to trends in population and lifestyles".

Has the penny dropped?


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 118 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 1, 2004, Wednesday

Millionaire is late runner in Hartlepool

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 116 words


The Conservative Party yesterday selected a candidate for the Hartlepool
by-election, more than five weeks after Peter Mandelson vacated the seat.

Jeremy Middleton, a millionaire businessman, now begins the Tory campaign a
month after the selection of Liberal Democrat Jody Dunn, and three weeks after
the Labour's Iain Wright. The Conservatives are also behind the UK Independence
Party, whose candidate, Stephen Allison, could beat them into fourth place.
Local Conservatives expressed their frustration at Conservative Central Office
two weeks ago. But Liam Fox, the Conservative co-chairman, said that it had been
"worth the wait" to find such an excellent local candidate.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
