
                               1 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 31, 2004

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 489 words


THE Tory party's reluctance to appoint a candidate for the Hartlepool
by-election is explained. An insider says: 'No serious Conservative candidate
will risk coming a possible seventh. We came third in the July by-elections but
this time it could be much worse. If Stuart "the Monkey" Drummond, Mayor of
Hartlepool, stands, he might win and there's also a risk of "Robocop" Ray
Mallon, the Mayor of Middlesbrough, running. With Labour, UKIP, the Lib Dems, as
well as an Independent candidate, the Tories are likely to end up at the bottom
of the pile.'

IN spite of Carol Thatcher's distinctive appearance her platinum tresses,
pictured, now resemble Jimmy Savile's she recently attempted to disguise herself
by wearing sunglasses. After hoovering a couple of margaritas in Quod's in
London, she admitted to a fellow drinker that she was indeed Mark Thatcher's
twin: 'Yes, I am Carol Thatcher. I've had such a dreadful time recently. Now I'm
taking myself off to the pictures to be on my own.'

LOUIS de Bernieres, 49, author of Captain Corelli's Mandolin, is circumspect
about becoming a father. His partner Cathy, 32, is expecting their first baby.
Asked if he was looking forward to the event, he said: 'Well, I'm waiting to see
what it's like. I'm a terrible realist. If it's a nice baby, obviously I'll be
over the moon, but I'm not going to be over the moon until I know what it's
like.'

DEBRETT'S have just published the first edition of a magazine called Society,
sent exclusively to those who appear in People of Today. The cover story is an
interview with the ineffable Stephen Fry.  Asked 'what is your favourite London
statue?' he answers: 'Derwent Wood's Machine Gun Corps Memorial in Wellington
Place. Best bottom in London.' Pevsner's architectural bible on London describes
the memorial, erected in 1925, as having 'a painfully inappropriate bronze
statue of a naked youth with a ceremonial sword'.

SIR Roy Strong is dismissive of the Queen's back yard in a review of Jane
Brown's The Garden At Buckingham Palace in Country Life. 'No monarch has ever
had the commitment or the cash to create a garden of any real importance,' he
says. 'It has never nor will it ever rank as a great garden.' The
bouffant-haired aesthete adds: 'Interest in the garden stems from the solitary
fact that until recently you couldn't get in it without an invitation.' Grammar
school boy Sir Roy has cultivated royalty and, as a regular guest at the Palace,
has never had to wait for a Garden Party invitation.

A FORMER colleague of Radio 4 Today programme presenter Ed 'Posh Spice'
Stourton's says he used to be preoccupied with his feet. Gorgeous blonde author,
Tess Stimson, a former producer for ITN, says that when Ed was a reporter for
C4, 'he used to love taking off his shoes and having me tickle or massage his
feet while he was putting stories together. He said it helped him think better'.
Naturellement!

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 30, 2004, Monday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: A HOLMES COMING FIT FOR HEROES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 254 words


THEY said the British team would be a flop because our athletes weren't up to
it.

How wrong they were. What an Olympics. And the British performance was
sensational.

Every four years the quality of competition gets tougher, making it ever harder
to win.

Yet at Athens 2004 our Olympians did us ALL proud.

It might be wrong to choose between our different winners. Gold is gold, after
all.

But Kelly Holmes's double triumph was so incredible, achieved despite a career
dogged by injury, and accepted so unassumingly, that the whole world can salute
one of the greatest athletic performances of all time.

Matthew Pinsent won a gold for the fourth time - an extraordinary feat only
bettered by his old rowing partner Steve Redgrave.

Then there were those four amazing guys in the 4x100 metres. Written off by
everyone, they gave Britain its first-ever Olympic relay victory.

And yesterday Amir Khan, just 17, took a glorious silver after another
sensational fight.

These were all magnificent individual performances but they were also triumphs
for Team GB. For they weren't just doing it for themselves but for their
country.

This was a triumph for multi-cultural Britain and a bloody nose for the
small-minded bigots of the BNP and UKIP.

What we have witnessed over the past couple of weeks is the real spirit of the
Olympics.

Athletes and people from every nation on earth coming together in a bond of
competition, endeavour and goodwill.

If only life could always be like this.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 29, 2004

Comment: Pendennis: Playing silly buffers

BYLINE: Pendennis

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 612 words


The government's ambitious plans to make the trains run on time have hit a snag.
Central to its policy of providing Britain with a modern railway infrastructure
is the abolition of the cash-sapping Strategic Rail Authority. Unfortunately,
half a dozen or so of the authority's directors are on such lavish six-figure
salaries that if, as was originally intended, they are transferred to the new
government-run railway directorate, they will be earning more than its head, Sue
Killen. The move threatens to trigger huge resentment among Whitehall mandarins.
So now, in an attempt to head off the mother of all pay rows, the fine minds
charged with overhauling the railways are left pondering a move to create a
smaller, renamed version of the SRA which will house the fat cats and keep them
separate from their boss. Sir Humphrey would be proud.

Wi th the situation in Iraq not going particularly well, the Ministry of Defence
asked award-winning comic Rudy Lickwood to fly to the Gulf and paint a smile on
the faces of our plucky guys and gals. It did not seem to concern the MoD that
Lickwood, one of Britain's sharpest alternative comics, is a critic of the war.
But the paradox of a comedian with anti-war views entertaining the troops was
not lost on Channel 4 which assembled a production team to accompany him and
record what promised to be a singular performance. Alas, the situation in Iraq
has become so dire that the trip has been postponed.

The highlight of the Archbishop of Canterbury's recent holiday in Wales was a
trip to witness Barry Morgan, his successor as Archbishop of Wales, enrolled as
a fellow druid at the National Eisteddfod. But while Morgan was dressed in the
full white garb for the ceremony, Dr Williams, whose druidic connections have
made him the butt of jokes in a cruel press, heeded the advice of his spin
doctors and opted for slacks and an open-neck shirt.

Th ere is excess and there is the MTV music awards. Celebrities such as J-Lo and
Gwyneth Paltrow, who are attending tonight's ceremony, will each be given a
goodie bag containing merchandise worth more than £10,000. Freebies include J-Lo
perfume, jewellery, iPod minis and Versace sunglasses. Pendennis can only
imagine his invitation must have been lost in the post.

Is Bruce 'the Brute' Anderson, the rumbustious, right-wing columnist, about to
make a comeback at the Spectator ? He was eased out of his position as political
correspondent while publisher Kimberly Fortier was in charge, following a series
of alcohol-fuelled encounters between the two. Since Fortier took her recent
'sabbatical', the Anderson byline has returned. No doubt he will be toasting his
change of fortune with a drop of something fortifying.

A rare publishing phenomenon looms on the horizon: a sympathetic portrait of
Alastair Campbell. Good Housekeeping editor Lindsay Nicholson, whose late
husband, the former Observer journalist John Merritt, was a close friend of
Campbell's, is writing her autobiography. Dealing with the death of both Merritt
and their daughter, Ellie, from leukaemia, the book pays tribute to the support
provided by Campbell and his partner, Fiona Millar. Nicholson is being paid a
sum not far shy of six figures, but it is not all good news. She is having to
rise at six every morning to ensure the book is completed on time.

The Tory's online shop continues to sell Sir Richard Body's book, England for
the English , a sobering tale of how multiculturalism is the end of the world as
we know it. Body retired at the last election and defected to the Ukip. No doubt
the royalties are being put to good use.

pendennis@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 29, 2004

Comment: WITHOUT PREJUDICE: When the price is right: Our political parties are
no longer governed by the people but by the extremely wealthy

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1376 words


THE SCANDAL OF the moment is that Sir Mark Thatcher was arrested in Cape Town
and is helping police with their inquiries into allegations that he helped
finance a plot to overthrow the dictator of a miserable West African state which
has no obvious attractions to the sons of Tory leaders other than enormous oil
reserves.

Among the alleged co-conspirators are Simon Mann, a mercenary and an old boy of
Eton, Sandhurst and the SAS; David Hart, another old Etonian and one of the most
ruthless operators of the Thatcher years; and Ely Calil, a British-based
Lebanese tycoon who makes his money from the West African oil trade.

As The Observer reported, Peter Mandelson, twice-sacked minister and EU
commissioner, rented a flat from Calil. It was in Holland Park, a part of London
so expensive I don't need to waste time describing where it is because you can
never afford to live there.

Mandelson had been forced to move to Calil's apartment after the press revealed
that he had used a private loan from a fellow minister, Geoffrey Robinson, to
buy his previous home in Notting Hill, another part of London you may as well
forget about. Mandelson and the Lebanese oil baron have a common friend in James
Palumbo, the upper-class owner of the Ministry of Sound who made tens of
millions by slumming it in the pop business.

While Mandelson was in Holland Park, he was forced to offer one of his many
resignations after he was accused of lobbying on behalf of the billionaire
Hinduja brothers, who were at the time up to their necks in the biggest arms
scandal in the history of independent India.

No one suggests that Mandelson has anything to do with the alleged African
conspiracy. What's telling is that he has been mixing with very rich men, be
they the friends of the Thatcher family, sprigs of the Palumbo family or the
brothers from the Hinduja family. These are odd circles to find a Labour
minister in. Let me put it to Labour readers like this: if you were invited to
these people's parties, would you want to go?

The scandal before the last scandal was the gossip about David Blunkett's love
life. If he had behaved like a decent Labour politician and had an affair with
the chairwoman of his constituency's Unison branch, it would have been a private
matter. But after so many years of stealing Tory policies, New Labour has moved
on to stealing Tory wives.

His liaison was with Kimberly Fortier, the American publisher of the right-wing
Spectator . Fortier set up home in Britain with her husband, the publisher of
Vogue , in a £2 million town house in Mayfair, yet another of those central
London districts you can't afford to think about. Blunkett had a romantic
retreat on the Chatsworth estate of Deborah 'Debo' Mitford, the dowager Duchess
of Devonshire, who, I should add in mitigation, was one of the few Mitford
sisters who wasn't actually a Nazi.

Again there is a jolting sense of dislocation. Blunkett constantly plays the
prolier-than-thou card against anyone who questions his attacks on civil
liberties. His opponents are Hampstead bleeding-hearts, he bellows. Guardian
-reading girls' blouses who don't know what hard men forged in the furnaces of
Sheffield must do to clear the mean streets of crime.

But when his day's work is over, he dismisses bourgeois Hampstead as too common
for his refined tastes and heads up-market to the aristocratic attractions of
Mayfair and Chatsworth; to parties at the Spectator and dinners with Barbara
Amiel. He shows no signs of worry that the company he keeps may mark him as a
stonking humbug.

Before the last two scandals, there was the one about Tony Blair choosing to
accept a free holiday from Silvio Berlusconi, a billionaire who has bought the
Italian media and politics as a job lot. Before that there were Lakshmi Mittal,
Enron, Arthur Andersen, Ecclestone. . .

The common thread is money: old money, new money, funny money - and the peculiar
individuals who get and spend it. You had better get used to seeing politicians
partying with money in all its guises. Learning to love the rich may soon become
the only way for politicians to survive.

LAST WEEK the Electoral Commission released its latest report on party political
funding. Quite rightly there was a great deal of interest in the coincidence of
Paul Drayson, a biotechnology entrepreneur, giving £500,000 to New Labour six
weeks after New Labour made him a life peer.

But focusing on the details of one case misses the wider trend: British public
life is increasingly dependent on the grace and favour of the super-rich. Such
has been the accumulation of wealth at the top, the parties no longer have a
financial need for mass memberships. Dr Peter Facey, director of the New
Politics Network, a think-tank which monitors the cash flows, adds that for all
the talk of the corporate takeover of government, they don't need corporations'
money either. Donations from big business have, in fact, all but disappeared.
The rich are now so rich they no longer have to go to the trouble of persuading
directors and shareholders to authorise a payment from company funds when they
can pay it from the petty cash.

In the last three months of 2003, for instance, Labour received £4.1 million.
About £1.85m came from its traditional source, the trade unions, which can't
donate without the approval of their members. The union contribution was matched
by the personal presents of three men - Sir Christopher Ondaatje CBE, Lord Paul
Hamlyn and William Haughey OBE - who gave £1.83m between them. Sir Christopher
alone handed over £1m.

Donations of this size aren't always dubious. Try as the media might, we haven't
been able to find anyone with a bad word to say about Ondaatje. He's just a rich
man who thinks that Tony Blair is an excellent Prime Minister and wants to help
him fight elections.

But you don't have to go back into the dealings around Ecclestone, Mittal and
the rest to realise that the overall effect of the rise of the plutocracy is
pernicious, even when it manifests itself in the amiable form of Ondaatje.

Last week's figures showed that the UK Independence Party received more money
than the Liberal Democrats in the run-up to June's European elections.

Its good fortune wasn't the result of a surge in membership, but because a
Yorkshire businessman, Paul Sykes, gave Ukip £715,000.

Suppose that as well as hating Europe, Sykes despised gays and loathed fox
hunters. Would Ukip's leaders and members dare risk losing his money by
drawing-up a manifesto which was for homosexual equality and for fox hunting?
Maybe they would, but it isn't over-cynical to believe Sykes has bought himself
a party which would never dare cross him.

IT ISN'T JUST Ukip. Iain Duncan Smith's fate was sealed when Stuart Wheeler, the
Conservative's biggest donor, said he wouldn't give a penny more to the party.
When Duncan Smith was duly fired and Howard took over, the spread-betting tycoon
opened his wallet and gave another £500,000. The Tories are no longer dependent
on the support of business as a whole, but of one businessman, Wheeler, and a
handful of like-minded tycoons.

Think of how many raffles and discos ordinary party members would have to
organise to raise Wheeler's £500,000, Sykes' £715,000 or Ondaatje's £1m.

The result is a vicious circle. The big donors' big cheques go to the parties'
headquarters in London. They strengthen the power of the centre, weaken local
workers and fuel public suspicion of influence peddling. Party members sense
their irrelevance. They drop out of politics and leave their parties more
dependent on the big cheques from the big donors.

Next month the Electoral Commission will offer its proposals for reform. I hope
they suggest cutting the cost of politics by banning billboard advertising and
offering all kinds of incentives to politicians to seek small donations from
ordinary citizens. I hope they're ruthlessly radical because at the moment we're
looking at a future where public life will inevitably be run by an
ever-shrinking coterie.

The Mandelsons and the Blunketts hang around the rich because they want to.
Their successors may hang around the rich because they have to.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                August 29, 2004

LEADER; IT'S TIME TO BLOW AWAY THE IMMIGRATION SMOKESCREEN

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 549 words


SO THE number of asylum seekers entering Britain has fallen? Brilliant news,
except that I don't believe it. It is just not true. The Government is
delighted, of course, to announce that the number seeking asylum has gone down
by 9,210, or 13 per cent, in the last quarter of the year.

But you and I know bogus asylum seekers are still entering the country in large
numbers every day.

It is just that the migrants have got wise to the fact that, while the
Government comes down hard on asylum seekers, it is actually soft on immigrants.

So they enter as illegal immigrants and wait for the inevitable amnesty and
permission to stay.

Bogus asylum seekers remain a major problem.

We all know this to be the case. We have the evidence of the new camp outside
Calais where they wait to hitch a lift across the Channel to prove it.

The French government might have pretended to co-operate with David Blunkett two
years ago and closed the infamous Sangatte camp but it is turning a blind eye to
the shanty town in the local woods.

This suits the French. They want to see them decamp to Britain.

The new EU commissioner for Justice and Human Rights, Rocco Buttiglione, says
the problem of asylum seekers attempting to enter Europe and Britain from Africa
is a "ticking time bomb". He believes it to be so serious, he has suggested
camps be set up in Africa to process the migrants.

MANY of these will turn up in Britain.

They will not, however, be counted by the Government as asylum seekers but will
be put in the less controversial category of immigration. Indeed, on the same
day as the Government was boasting of a decrease in asylum applications it was
confessing immigration had increased by 20 per cent in 2003. Maybe it is true
that they are needed.

But what we also need is a Government that will tell us the truth, and let us
decide if we want to see our country altered by an influx of foreigners.

What we can do without is the obfuscation, the deceit, and lies that
characterise the current Government's handling of immigration and asylum.

HOW much would you like to bet that if the Labour Party forms the Government
after the next general election it will increase the rate of inheritance tax?

It will. Downing Street may deny it today - just as it said it wouldn't increase
tax before the last election only to hit us with 61 tax rises - but the Labour
Party-backed report suggesting a 50 per cent rate is designed to prepare the
way.

Inheritance tax on family homes should be scrapped and Ukip has been pledging to
abolish it since 2001. We should not penalise people who have worked and saved
all their lives and who, not unreasonably, want to leave their family home to
their children or grandchildren.

These people are not speculators looking for a quick profit like Cherie Blair
with her Bristol flats.

The tax is unfair. Because houses have different values in different areas, it's
possible to leave a castle and estate in some parts of the country to the kids
free of tax while some offspring would be forced to sell to pay the tax if the
home was a terraced house in London.

Hard-working parents would not mind so much if their money went to good causes.
But with our government's track record that is unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               6 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                August 29, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 215 words


HOW much would you like to bet that if the Labour Party forms the government
after the next general election it will increase the rate of inheritance tax?

It will. Downing Street may deny it today - just as it said it wouldn't increase
tax before the last election only to hit us with 61 tax rises - but the Labour
Party-backed report suggesting a 50 per cent rate is deliberately designed to
prepare the way.

Inheritance tax on family homes should be scrapped and Ukip has been p ledged to
abolish it since 2001. We should not penalise people who have worked and saved
and paid taxes all their lives and who, not unreasonably, want to leave their
family home to their children or grandchildren. These people are not speculators
looking for a quick profit like Cherie Blair with her Bristol flats.

The tax is unfair. Because houses have different values in different parts of
the country, it is possible to leave a castle and an estate in Scotland, or a
grand house in Wales, to the kids free of all tax while some bereaved kids would
be forced to sell to pay the tax if the family home was a terraced house in
London.

Hard-working parents would not mind so much if their money went to good causes.
But with our government's track record that is, perhaps, unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 29, 2004, Sunday

Pets' pulling power Television

BYLINE: By John Preston

SECTION: Review; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 1118 words

My father was once stopped in the street by a woman doing a survey who asked him
what his favourite television programme was. "Robin Hood," he replied. "But
that's a children's programme," the woman pointed out. "Yes, I know," said my
father happily. A generation on, I find myself in a similar position. Although I
like to think of myself as a fiercely contemporary person, I realise that if
asked the same question, I would have considerable difficulty choosing between
Antiques Roadshow and Animal Hospital.

In Animal Hospital: The Big Story (Monday, BBC 1), Rolf Harris presented a kind
of orgy-ette of self-congratulation to mark the programme's 10th anniversary. He
recalled how to begin with no one had thought it would be anything other than a
cheapo schedule-filler, but this of course hopelessly underestimated the British
public's zeal for mooning over other people's pets in distress. Various
highlights were recalled, including the programme's first emergency.

Benjy, a furry barrel of unknown parentage, was brought in after being in a
fight with another dog. His chances were put at no more than 50 / 50. But
eventually Benjy, fortified by numerous blood transfusions, and by the
collective exhortations of seven million viewers, pulled through. Then came the
clincher. Benjy was reunited with his owner, who turned out not only to be very
old, but also blind. As Benjy launched himself playfully at her throat, she
burst into ecstatic tears, whereupon the ratings shot into vertical overdrive.

But not all endings proved to be quite so joyful, declared Rolf putting on his
slightly quavering sombre voice. Floss the sheepdog had to be put down. His
distraught owner was seen bidding Floss a last farewell before the lethal
injection was administered. It was indeed a poignant moment, only slightly
spoiled by Rolf saying smugly, "That night more than nine million viewers tuned
in."

For no particularly good reason, various semi-celebrities cropped up throughout,
all of them saying what terrific television it was. As they did so, the
suspicion dawned that Rolf Harris, for all his many attributes, has been on
telly for so long that he's incapable of seeing anything other than in showbiz
terms.

Certainly, this proved to be the case with Snowy the poodle, admitted to
hospital in such a neglected state that even the vets gasped in disbelief.
Greatly moved by her plight, people had sent in get-well cards - mercifully,
Snowy was still able to read - along with specially knitted poodle bedjackets.

Finally, Snowy, too, had pulled through. That, though, was only the half of it.
In what was clearly regarded as the happiest of happy endings, Snowy had gone on
to become "a huge celebrity". She'd got herself an agent, landed her own series,
turned up her tail at her old friends, become addicted to worming tablets, and
now mooches round her gloomily ornate kennel, snarling, "I am big. It's the
pet-shows that have got small."

There were no dogs or cats to be seen in NY-LON (Tuesday, Channel 4), a
seven-part romantic comedy about an English banker falling in love with an
American teacher - but this wasn't its only deficiency. The two protagonists met
after she'd had her bag stolen, then, none too plausibly, bumped into one
another again later the same evening.

The spirit of Sliding Doors hung heavily over the whole thing: there were
overlapping time-frames and the screen kept splitting into two, presumably to
create a suitably skittish atmosphere. Its main problem, however, wasn't so much
lack of originality as lack of charm. Neither of the two leads was particularly
appealing and the lines they'd been given didn't make them any more so.

With little chemistry between them, contrivance stayed stubbornly in the
foreground. Nor - at least until the end - were there enough obstacles for their
love to surmount. While they may have lived in different countries, it was plain
they fancied one another from the word go. So much so, that she wasn't even put
off by him saying "I sell dreams", or by his peculiar habit of wearing his jeans
in bed.

When he went over to New York on a whim to give her an earring back, he found
that one of her friends had just died. Rather unpleasantly, this proved to be
the spark that ignited their passion. But just before the credits rolled, it
transpired that his on-off girlfriend was pregnant, so that should at least keep
them apart for a while.

The most inspiring thing I saw all week was Michael Johnson's introduction to
the Men's 100m Final on last Sunday's Grandstand (BBC 1). With great eloquence
and a stirring rumble in his voice, Johnson, the four-time gold-medal winner,
described what was going through the athletes' minds as the race approached. It
was so inspiring that by the time he'd finished I felt that I was in with a very
real chance of a medal.

On Wednesday night came the final of the men's Superheavyweight Weightlifting.
The Iranian lifter, Hossein Reza Zadeh, a man with an almost entirely square
head, waddled purposely to the stage and hoisted roughly 40 stone - a new world
record - above his head, emitting a triumphant bellow as he did so. "He's a real
showman, the big fella," said the commentator adoringly, before proclaiming this
to be "a magical moment of weightlifting".

There were other hefty brutes to be seen in Who Killed Thomas Becket? (last
Sunday, Channel 4). But the big mystery here had less to do with the identity of
Becket's murderers than with the state of his surname. When I was growing up, he
was always known as Thomas a Becket. Perhaps it's all part of a UKIP plot to
anglicise everyone's surnames, or perhaps a dog ate it, but either way, it's
very puzzling.

Becket, it seems, was not the virtuous figure that my admittedly lavishly
illustrated history books claimed. In fact, he had a genius for being
disagreeable. Far from having any interest in religion, Becket only became a
priest on the day before his induction as Archbishop of Canterbury. But then he
became very godly indeed and took to washing beggars' feet and wearing a hair
shirt. A series of unusually atmospheric and well-acted dramatised re-creations
showed him becoming more and more estranged from Henry II until the king's
patience at last snapped.

After his murder, Becket's hair shirt turned out to be infested with lice. For
reasons that weren't entirely clear, this was taken as evidence of his divine
nature and he was made a saint - apparently for creating a kind of mini-animal
hospital about his person. In short, he was nice to lice.

John Preston's new novel Kings of the Roundhouse (Viking) is available for
pounds 14.99 + pounds 2.25 p&p from Telegraph Books Direct (0870 155 7222)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 29, 2004, Sunday

Some advice for Mr Howard as he loses Bush's vote Politics The choice between a
'core vote' strategy and modernising the Tory party is a false one

BYLINE: By Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: Features; Sunday Comment; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1312 words

One of the most impressive speeches made in recent times by a Conservative
politician - or indeed by any politician - was Michael Howard's declaration of
his candidacy for the Tory leadership last October. Delivered at the Saatchi
Gallery in London - a panelled shrine to modernity - the address was a
formidable expression of personal confidence and political openness. It promised
a Conservatism "broad in appeal and generous in outlook", a party which would
"preach a bit less and listen a bit more", and "a new kind of politics"
characterised by "rigorous honesty, measured criticism, realistic alternatives".
The speech, quite justifiably, sent a tremor of alarm coursing through Number
10.

Last week, as I spoke to senior Conservatives returning from holiday, I was
struck by how many referred, unbidden, to Mr Howard's Saatchi Gallery manifesto.
They compared - in some cases, with considerable alarm - its statesmanship to
the rather more shrill and commonplace speech made by the Tory leader in
Stafford on Thursday, in which he attacked "political correctness gone mad",
cantered round the alleged atrocities of Left-wing bureaucrats, and declared
that "enough is enough". Well, it is August: Mr Howard no doubt calculated that,
at this very quiet time of year, he would squeeze one or two helpful headlines
out of this very familiar theme, and he did. But the summer is almost over, and
off-the-peg rhetoric of this sort will no longer command much interest. The
serious season is upon us.

In the 10 months since his acclamation as Tory leader, Mr Howard has made his
share of mistakes. He now acknowledges, I am told, that his Jesuitical attempt
to shift his position on the Iraq war was an error, and a gift to the Prime
Minister on the eve of the Butler Report. It emerged yesterday that President
Bush has signalled to Mr Howard that he is not welcome in the Oval Office: to
grasp what a snub this is to a British Opposition leader, bear in mind that even
Neil Kinnock was granted an audience (however brief and humiliating) by Ronald
Reagan.

The White House has maintained strong links with William Hague and Iain Duncan
Smith, and Mr Bush has a sufficient interest in British Toryism to inquire
occasionally how "the Spaniard" - Michael Portillo - is faring. The President
knew exactly what he was doing - provoking an angry riposte from the Tory leader
yesterday. Mr Howard's stand may endear him to those British voters who despise
Mr Bush. But it is bad news for the Tory leader that the President is so
evidently confident that he will never have to do business with him as prime
minister.

Too often Mr Howard has forgotten his promise at the Saatchi Gallery that "I
won't argue a lawyer's case". Too often, the Tory leader has appeared to believe
that relentless forensic brilliance will carry the day. "What Michael thinks,"
according to one old Central Office hand, "is that the electorate is shut in a
courtroom with no exits, whereas they are actually sat on a sofa watching the
telly and presing the off button."

None the less, Mr Howard has undoubtedly brought authority and energy to a party
that had become apparently unleadable and utterly listless. Under his beady eye,
the Tories are learning afresh the habit of unity, lost a decade and a half ago.
They are also rediscovering the virtues of activity and efficiency. When one
considers Mr Howard's shambolic inheritance, this is no mean achievement.

The challenge for him in the months ahead is to tread the fine line that
separates urgency from panic. If one assumes that Tony Blair will indeed call an
election in the early summer of next year - and it is only an assumption - then
the Tory leader has little more than seven months to make his case to the
electorate. In that endeavour, personal authority and political vigour will be
necessary but not sufficient causes of success. The Conservatives still need to
explain what they are for, and why people should bother with them. The YouGov
poll in Friday's Daily Telegraph, which found the Tories level with Labour on 34
per cent - a poor showing for an Opposition at this stage of the electoral cycle
- was a bleak reminder to the Howard team of how far it still has to travel.

The Tory leader's predicament can be encapsulated thus. Margaret Thatcher was
defined by the voters she attracted: most notably, "Essex Man". Mr Howard, in
contrast, has been defined thus far only by the people around him: the so-called
"Notting Hill Tories". The growing prominence of this bright young cohort of
MPs, advisers and parliamentary candidates - David Cameron, George Osborne and
others - is indeed to the Tory leader's credit. No such glittering caucus
gathered so publicly round Hague or IDS. That said, it is scarcely surprising
that a group of ambitious young Tories should have clustered in this affluent
part of London. What matters is not that they live in Notting Hill, but the
extent to which they grasp what life is like outside it (which, to be fair, some
of them do). The Tories do not need to be identified with a particular postcode.
They need to be identified with a national mission.

This is why the next few weeks, leading up to the annual party conference in
Bournemouth and the Hartlepool by-election are so critical to Mr Howard's
prospects. No Opposition leader has had so little time to make his case to the
public since Edward Heath replaced Sir Alec Douglas-Home, a mere seven months
before he faced Harold Wilson in the 1966 general election. As polling day
approaches, Mr Howard will be urged by some to pursue a so-called "core vote"
strategy of the sort that Mr Hague embraced in 2001: fiercely Eurosceptic, noisy
on asylum and crime, angrily in favour of tax cuts. Others, on the "modernising"
wing of the party will warn the Tory leader to address none of these issues, and
speak only (and then respectfully) of "schoolsnhospitals", lest he be remembered
as "Hague Mark II".

In fact, the dichotomy is false. Mr Howard's speech on crime in Middlesbrough
earlier this month demonstrated that it is quite possible to address a
traditional Tory theme without sounding like a single-issue campaigner or a
rabid obsessive. Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, is expected by colleagues
to promise modest tax cuts in the next few months: whatever the substance of the
new policy, one can be absolutely sure that Mr Letwin, of all people, will sound
the opposite of barbarous. On Europe there is less certainty round the shadow
cabinet table: some would like Mr Howard to claw back votes from UKIP by aping
its xenophobic tone. But this would be a grievous error. The Tory leader has
rarely sounded as convincing as he did in Berlin in February when he struck a
note of poised nonchalance about Britain's role in the EU. Much more than when
he was fulminating against "political correctness" last week, he had the bearing
of a prospective prime minister.

A prospective prime minister must appeal to the whole country. Last month, in
the wake of his party's disappointing performance in the Birmingham Hodge Hill
and Leicester South by-elections, the Tory co-chairman, Liam Fox, declared that
"this is not our natural territory". At that moment, precisely, Mr Blair's aides
declared to one another that Labour had the next election sewn up. If Dr Fox
meant what he seemed to be saying - that the Tories' ambitions are confined to
their electoral heartlands and a few marginals - then Labour's jubilation was
justified. But that was not what Mr Howard said in the Saatchi Gallery last
year: quite the opposite, in fact. On that occasion he announced that there
would be "no no-go areas for a modern Conservative Party". Wise words. Bombarded
as he will be by advice over the next few months, solicited or otherwise, the
Tory leader need only dig out that inspiring speech, and heed his own counsel.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               9 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 29, 2004, Sunday

I won't be your leader, 6ft 4in lesbian tells UKIP's gay members 'Sizeable but
secret' homosexual membership twice asked party secretary to become their
standard bearer

BYLINE: BY DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 978 words

A GAY contingent within the UK Independence Party is trying to set up a
"homosexual wing" of the movement, calling up the party's 6ft 4in lesbian party
secretary to act as its leader.

Nikki Sinclaire, 36, admitted last week that she has twice been approached by a
group of gay UKIP members to act as a statuesque "standard bearer" for them.

Her revelation has highlighted a schism within the party between those who would
like it to be more liberal and those who subscribe to more traditional values.
Two months ago UKIP had its best ever election performance when it won more than
16 per cent of the votes cast in the European elections.

Ms Sinclaire, who was last week holidaying on the Greek island of Lesbos,
shocked fellow members when she outed herself last month in a letter to the gay
newspaper The Pink Paper, in which she also declared that there was a sizeable,
but secret, homosexual membership of UKIP.

She claimed that at least 23 of the 430 candidates the party fielded at the 2001
general election were homosexual. She said: "I was approached some time ago and
then again a few months ago by some people who thought there should be a gay
grouping within the party and they wanted me as their standard bearer, but I
said no.

"In the course of that I learned that there were 23 gay candidates in 2001.
There could have been 24, 25, 35, or 45. I have no idea because obviously people
don't write it on their foreheads. I just knew of at least 23."

Ms Sinclaire, who said that because of her height and sexuality she was often
forced to deny being a transsexual, told The Sunday Telegraph that she wrote the
letter because of a perception among many gays that UKIP was an intolerant,
anti-gay party.

"Some of my personal friends were saying how could you be in UKIP, and I got
tired of explaining that the party does not have these viewpoints," she said.
"There are gay people who feel that this country has been sold down the river to
the EU and I'm one of them. Europe might give them a few human rights regarding
work and partnership rights but that's no good when they are losing their basic
human rights of self-determination and being able to choose who governs them.

"That's my view, but I know there are some members in the party, not senior
members, who are not too happy [with homosexuality]. Some Christian members are
not too happy.

"I have got no problem with people who hold those strong views, maybe on
religious grounds. That's fine, as long as there is a limit."

The issue has been fuelled by comments attributed to another leading member of
the party, Damian Hockney, one of UKIP's two newly-elected London Assembly
representatives, who reportedly told a newspaper that UKIP was "pro-gay".

The magazine publisher, who says he is heterosexual but once paid for party
political advertisements to be placed in Gay Times while standing for UKIP, was
interrogated by party bosses.

Petrina Holdsworth, the chairman of UKIP, said: "I asked him about the pro-gay
line because I was absolutely horrified. He has given me the words he said to
them and it was effectively that we are not anti-gay.

"He did not, unfortunately, say we are neutral and the newspaper could have
taken from what he said that we are pro-gay. Damian has perhaps been a bit
flowery in his language but he hasn't said we are neutral, which is what he
should have said."

Mrs Holdsworth said of Ms Sinclaire's revelations of an incipient "gay wing"
within UKIP: "I'm very pleased she has declined [to lead it] because it tends to
cause divisions and tends to focus on all sorts of things we don't want to focus
on. I'm surprised that they feel the need, but we will have to see what
happens."

Problems over the party's stance on homosexuality came to the fore when Frank
Maloney, the boxing promoter who was the party's candidate for London Mayor,
joked in April that he would not bother campaigning in the borough of Camden
because there were "too many gays" there.

Mr Hockney, 45, who admits that he is seen as "politically correct" by many
within UKIP, said that following his talk with Mrs Holdsworth he had now been
told exactly what the party's line is on homosexual issues.

He attempted to explain: "This all came about because of the things that Frank
Maloney had said. We wanted to redress the balance and we were anxious to make
the point that we are not anti-gay.

"The chairman and I have spoken about this and we have sort of agreed that what
we want to try and do is make it clear that views on gay issues are a personal
matter; that there isn't a party policy.

"We are pro-equality, there is no doubt about that. We are anti-discrimination.
We have a clause in our manifesto [stating that], so that is clear.

"I guess the party line is equality but I suppose it's how you define it. Some
people would oppose gay adoption and say it doesn't fall within the definition
of equality." He added that he had no view on issues such as gay adoption.

He said he had nothing to do with the formation of a gay wing of the party, but
admitted: "I would like to know who the 23 [gay candidates] were. We've got a
book running on it at the London Assembly."

Ms Sinclaire quoted the party line as being: "We are non-discriminatory but we
don't support equal rights for homosexuals." She explained: "We don't have
anti-gay policies. OK, we don't have pro-gay policies either but we are
certainly not anti-gay."

Despite her attempt to clear up the matter, some party stalwarts remain unhappy
with the prospect of homosexual issues being given prominence. Peter Watson, the
chairman of the north Dorset branch of UKIP, said he had written a letter of
complaint after hearing of the "pro-gay" reference.

He said: "I am totally unsympathetic to gay issues. I don't know anyone in UKIP
who is interested in homosexuals. It is a non-issue."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               10 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 28, 2004, Saturday

'Let everyone in' is a dangerous immigration policy

BYLINE: Andrew Green

SECTION: Features; 28

LENGTH: 919 words


A HUGE problem is facing Britain but too many people shy away from it. There
have been great debates about asylum yet the wider, and much more important,
issue of immigration has been avoided for a generation.

Home Office figures published this week showed that grants of settlement have
doubled since 1997. Of course, some migration in both directions is natural and
welcome. And the immigrants who are already here have made their own
considerable contributions to our society. The issue now is the scale of future
immigration which is a real cause of concern.

Successive opinion polls indicate that the subject has shot up the agenda in
recent years. In the mid-1990s, only 5 to 10 per cent mentioned immigration to
pollsters as an issue of concern. But a recent YouGov poll found that it now
comes top, with 56 per cent mentioning it, ahead of even crime or health.

The reason comes down to numbers. Net foreign immigration -those who come minus
those who leave -was 245,000 in 2002. This was more than twice the level of 1997
and the trend is rising. For the first time in our history, we are adding to our
population by immigration. The Government's own figures, albeit extremely
conservative, show our population increasing by 5.6 million over the next three
decades. This is equivalent to five times the population of Birmingham; and 85
per cent of it will be due to new immigration.

Where are we going to put all these people? At present rates they will add
roughly one million to the Government's projections for new housing needs over
the 1996-2021 planning period. A quarter of new houses will be required for
immigrants. Yet we already have severe congestion. England now has more people
per square mile than India, and the South East is twice as crowded as the
Netherlands, the most crowded country in Europe. Common sense suggests that it
is simply absurd to let immigration add to our overcrowding.

None of these numbers include illegal immigrants. But the Government has
effectively lost control of our borders. Only one in ten asylum-seekers is
recorded as leaving Britain, although six out of ten have their claims rejected.

And 1.5 million visas are issued every year to students and visitors but nobody
checks them in or out. Nor has anyone any idea how many illegal immigrants
arrive in the back of a lorry. Still less is there an effective system for
detecting and removing illegal immigrants.

As whistle-blowers have so clearly demonstrated, the administration of the
system is a shambles. So is the system itself. There are no limits to any of the
three major categories of immigration. The admission of spouses and fiance(e)s
is so loosely administered as to be effectively unlimited. The number of asylum
seekers is a function of how many set foot in Britain and claim asylum. Despite
this chaos, the Government has quadrupled the number of work permits -arrogantly
flying in the face of public opinion.

So immigration is very high, likely to continue at least at these levels and,
importantly, with no natural end. In case anyone thinks that we exaggerate,
allow me to quote from one of the e-mails that the Home Office was obliged to
disclose to us last week: "I've made this point many times before but can we
please stop saying that Migrationwatch forecasts are wrong...their assumptions
are often below the Government Actuary's Department high migration (scenario)."
Indeed, David Blunkett admitted on Newsnight, that he saw "no obvious upper
limit to legal migration".

The Government's economic case for immigration on this scale does not withstand
scrutiny, as the public instinctively recognises. That, no doubt, is why
successive polls indicate that 80 per cent, including 52 per cent from ethnic
minority communities, want to see much tougher immigration controls. A poll
conducted for the Commission for Racial Equality two years ago found that 46 per
cent of people from ethnic minorities thought that there were too many
immigrants in Britain. Everyone can see that the character of our society, and
especially our cities, is being radically altered. In the past decade, half a
million Londoners left for other parts of the UK to be replaced by the same
number of immigrants; 57 per cent of respondents to our MORI poll felt that we
are losing our culture, and there was widespread resentment that nobody has
consulted them.

The Government's policy has been described as "talk tough and let them all in".

They will deny it of course but, as politicians, they cannot be oblivious of the
fact that immigrants vote overwhelmingly Labour. They will deny this, of course,
but they must know that, in 1997, 83 per cent of black and Asian votes went to
Labour. That is fine for Labour until they are rumbled by their own working
class voters; this is now happening as they turn increasingly to the British
National Party (BNP). As for the Conservatives, they have yet to convince the
public that they have the policies and, above all, the political will to tackle
the issue.

It is not for nothing that the BNP received 800,000 votes in the recent
elections and the UK Independence Party -which also has a strong policy on
immigration - did remarkably well. Unless the major parties get a grip on this
problem and do so soon, the extremists of the BNP will make hay and the
tranquillity of our society will be placed at serious risk. The time for
decisive action has arrived.

* Sir Andrew Green is chairman of Migration Watch UK


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 27, 2004, Friday

Just like the rest of us, Howard has a poor summer Not since the war has an
opposition party performed so dismally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 803 words

FOR the Conservative Party, as for the whole country, the past few weeks have
been neither long, hot nor a true summer. YouGov's latest monthly survey for The
Daily Telegraph suggests that, for the Tory Party as well as the rest of the
country, August has been unusually damp and chilly.

Exactly a year ago, the Tories, then led by Iain Duncan Smith, had the backing
of 37 per cent of voters and were two points ahead of Labour. They had already
been ahead for two months and took the lead again in the autumn.

A year on and the Tories, far from having progressed further, are worse off.
Only 34 per cent of voters now back the party - three points down from 12 months
ago - and the Conservatives and Labour are now neck and neck.

The Conservatives' much-vaunted summer campaign, with Michael Howard, Oliver
Letwin and David Davis featured prominently, has apparently accomplished nothing
and the Tories' prospects in next month's Hartlepool by-election look bleak.

Unless the Tories can boost their fortunes dramatically over the next five
weeks, the annual party conference in Bournemouth will be a depressed and
depressing affair. Not since the Second World War has any principal opposition
party performed so dismally in the polls over such a long period of time.

When Labour was last in power in the 1970s, the Conservatives under Margaret
Thatcher were well ahead in most months, sometimes by 10 points or more.

A simple year-on-year comparison shows how little has changed politically since
last summer. The figures set out in the section of the chart headed "A year ago
and now" tell the story or, rather, the lack of story.

At the end of August 2003, the Conservatives had a small lead over Labour. Now
they have none. A year ago, Tony Blair enjoyed an 11-point lead over Iain Duncan
Smith as the person who "would make the best Prime Minister". His lead over
Michael Howard now is virtually identical: 10 points. If treading water were an
Olympic sport, the Tories would be medal-winners.

On the core issue of economic competence, a three-point Conservative lead 12
months ago has now turned into a three-point Labour lead.

Labour's overall approval and trustworthiness ratings, although still negative,
have improved substantially since a year ago. It goes without saying that Tony
Blair and the Government as a whole are still largely discredited.

Labour support has fallen from 42 per cent at the time of the 2001 general
election to 34 per cent now. Only 29 per cent of voters approve of the Blair
Government's record to date and only 28 per cent reckon Mr Blair and his
colleagues have proved honest and trustworthy.

However, the striking feature of almost every recent YouGov poll has not been
the Government's unpopularity but the Tories' apparent inability to take
advantage of it. The gap between where the Tories are now and where they need to
be to win the next general election is enormous - and probably unbridgeable.

This month's findings represent a swing to the Tories since the 2001 election of
four and a half per cent, enough to net them 40 extra seats in a general
election if repeated uniformly across the country.

Gains on that scale would eat substantially into Labour's overall majority next
time but would not come anywhere near returning the Tories to power. To become
the largest single party, the Conservatives in 2005 or 2006 need a swing in
their favour of roughly nine per cent - double what they are managing to achieve
at present.

To win outright, they would need an even larger swing: more than 10 per cent.
However, the largest swing they have managed to achieve in any post-2001 opinion
poll is a mere seven per cent.

In the past, the party that would undoubtedly have benefited most from the two
major parties' simultaneous unpopularity would have been the Liberal Democrats.
No so now, however.

The Liberal Democrats are on a respectable 21 per cent - two points higher than
at the last general election - but they show no signs of moving steadily ahead
and the proportion of voters believing Charles Kennedy would make the best Prime
Minister remains a modest 14 per cent.

It is minor parties that are making headway. In particular, six per cent of
voters now would vote for the UK Independence Party at an early general
election. That is considerably lower than the 16 per cent who backed UKIP at the
European elections in June but it is vastly greater than the derisory share UKIP
secured in 2001.

UKIP is unlikely to win any more Westminster seats next time than three years
ago: namely, none. However, if UKIP draws a disproportionate share of its vote
from the Tories, as seems likely, the Tories next year or the year afterwards
could find themselves seriously disadvantaged.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               12 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 27, 2004

DON'T BE A COWARD HOWARD

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 555 words


MICHAEL HOWARD won't be at the Republican convention in New York next week.

He says he's too busy.

I wouldn't go so far as to call it a snub to President Bush and the Tories'
spiritual soulmates across the pond - largely because practically no one in
America has ever heard of Howard.

But it's bad manners and short-sighted.

At the very least he might learn something. The Republicans are a formidable
vote-winning machine who could teach the Conservatives a trick or two.

Even though Bush is trailing in the polls in this November's race for the White
House, the Republicans have won six out of the last nine presidential elections
and control both houses of Congress.

Don't bet against Dubya pulling this one out of the fire, either, despite John
Kerry enjoying a narrow lead.

Howard could do with that kind of steely determination, iron discipline and
ruthless professionalism.

Instead, he's floundering, outflanked by Blair on one side and UKIP on the
other.

There's increasing desperation in the Tory camp as the General Election
approaches.

Which may explain why Howard is distancing himself from Bush and backtracking
furiously over Iraq.

It's worth remembering that Blair wouldn't have been able to commit British
forces to the coalition without the gung-ho support of the Conservatives in
Parliament.

Howard was as full-throated in his backing for the invasion as anyone. But now
he says that if he knew then what he knows now he wouldn't have voted for the
war.

That's gone down like a bucket of cold sick in Republican circles. At a time
when Kerry is trying to pretend that America doesn't have a friend in the world,
they could

do without their traditional Conservative sidekicks in Britain going AWOL.

There's nothing in this for Howard. He's kidding himself if he thinks he's on to
a vote-winner.

Tories are going to vote for him regardless, even if they had mis-

givings about the war.

The Not In My Name crowd are hardly going to turn round and vote Conservative.

The only beneficiaries of the unpopularity of the war are the sanctimonious
Lib-Dems and George Galloway's Mahdi Army.

Labour routinely accuses Howard of "opportunism". For once, they're right.

If you supported the war, you have a duty to stick with it until the peace has
been won, too.

Staying away from the Republican convention is cowardly. Howard has caved in to
the childish Bush-haters.

Too busy? It's August. Sure, the Tories have been making the right noises.

Yesterday Howard gave a speech attacking the compensation culture, the "human
rights" racket and the insanity of the health 'n' safety Nazis.

But it's nothing you haven't read in this column time and again over the past
few years.

And, anyway, no one's listening right now. Everyone's on holiday - or rather
sitting in a traffic jam, sleeping at an airport or waiting for a train which
never comes.

Michael Howard could have spent August more productively, getting back in touch
with the conservative values which allowed Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan
to carry all before them for so long.

He's always been a passionate pro-American, wedded to a belief in free
enterprise, individual liberty, low taxation and hatred of tyranny.

A week in New York would have done him good.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               13 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 26, 2004

'Credentials of shame' split the Games chiefs

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: ED_4TH; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 607 words


THE IOC proposal to take the Games credentials of Greek's shamed sprinters to
the Olympic Museum in Lausanne has caused serious upset among both the Greek
media and the Athens organising committee.

My revelation earlier this week that the IOC were planning for the surrendered
Olympic passes of Kostas Kenteris, Katerina Thanou and their coach Christos
Tzekos to be put on display in the museum caused uproar at yesterday's Press
briefing, with Greek journalists not accepting the weak IOC answer to their
complaints that they hadn't seen the item in the Daily Mail.

Leading Greek journalist Evangelos Papadimitriou, who works for the country's
biggest-selling financial paper, Investors World, said the IOC was 'completely
out of control' on the issue and - quite rightly - told spokesperson Giselle
Davies that it was 'not possible that you haven't read the Daily Mail'.

The Athens organisers' chief spokesman, Michalis Zacharatos, who has been
determined to present a united front with the IOC on every item raised at their
joint daily Press conferences, said: ' I can't comment on the veracity of this
article. We will have to wait and see what happens.' But after Zacharatos had
been informed that the IOC had officially confirmed the museum destination of
the documents, he said passionately: 'We strongly disapprove.'

Even his Head of Media colleague, Serafim Kotrotsos, called it 'totally bizarre'
- the first time since the start of the Games that the Athens high command have
voiced any differences with the IOC.

Later in the day, the IOC attempted to defuse the highly sensitive matter by
saying: 'These accreditations are part of the history of the Athens Games. As
such, they will be transferred to the Olympic Museum, where things which are
part of Games history are typically stored.

They are not going there as exhibits.'

FRENCH double Olympic winner Marie-Jose Perec fled the Games in Sydney before
her expected 400metres showdown with Cathy Freeman, claiming she had been
hounded out of by relentless media pressure. Four years on and Perec is happily
working in Athens for French newspaper L'Equipe as well as aTV station.

ROBERT Kilroy Silk's UK Independence Party hoped to draw attention to their
anti-European crusade by demonstrating outside London's City Hall.

The Ultra right- wing group believe Paris, not London, should host the 2012
Olympics. But their action had the reverse effect of creating rare European
harmony between London and Paris connections, who were yesterday united in
distancing themselves from the political misfits.

THE IOC's acclaimed marketing chief, Michael Payne, who is leaving to work in
Formula One after the Games, will start with brownie points after inviting new
boss Bernie Ecclestone to Athens as his personal guest. Payne's ideas for F1
include more inner-city events, such as the Regent Street display in London,
prior to the British GP at Silverstone, which attracted a massive crowd.

Bank Holiday fear over bid

THE expected British Airways Bank Holiday chaos this weekend could not come at a
worse time for the London 2012 bid.

A number of IOC members, whose vote decides the venue, will be travelling back
from Athens to their homes around the world next Monday, either via BA, or going
through London after the finish of the Games. They will not be happy if their
flights or transit times are delayed.

Ironically, Team GB will be flying into Heathrow that day courtesy of their
official carrier, Cyprus Airways. BA tendered for that sponsorship, but Cyprus
had the advantage of being the holding camp base for our athletes.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               14 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 26, 2004

Tory inclusivity jeopardised by gay candidate row

BYLINE: Sarah Hall Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 511 words


Michael Howard's hopes of presenting a more inclusive Conservative party were
dealt a blow yesterday when he was drawn into a vicious row over a campaign to
deselect a gay candidate.

The Tory leader issued a statement of support describing Ashley Crossley as an
"excellent candidate" after it emerged that he faces a de- selection battle next
month in the winnable seat of Falmouth and Camborne.

While local activists deny that his sexuality is an issue, the deselection
challenge comes after a local Tory councillor ridiculed him for being gay at a
public meeting, and after his parents were subjected to homophobic comments.

Mr Crossley, a 31-year-old barrister who lives in London but was brought up in
the area, now faces being de- selected at a meeting of the 630-strong
association on September 8.

Sixty-six local activists have signed a motion of no confidence in him. But
while they have not explained why they want a replacement, central office and
his supporters believe homophobia among a small group of individuals is at the
heart of the issue.

Friends of Mr Crossley, who has been with his partner for 13 years, stress he
has never sought to hide the fact that he is gay, although he prefers to keep
his private life private.

New rules forbid local associations from asking candidates about their
sexuality, or even if they are married or have children, during the selection
process. Despite this, a local councillor, Mike Varney, asked if he had a
partner during his interview. Mr Crossley is understood to have laughed the
question off.

Yesterday Mr Varney said: "This has nothing to do with his sexuality but he
avoided answering a question. He was deceptive. If he has no problem with his
sexuality, he should be shouting it from the roof tops."

But supporters of Mr Crossley suggest that Mr Varney, and other officials among
the eight-strong management team, have been overt in their homophobia.

One local farmer said that, at a meeting of at least 70 constituency members, a
homopho bic gibe by Mr Varney was greeted with laughter. "I was trying to make
some points and a number of people tried to shout me down, demanding who I was.
Michael Varney shouted to the packed room: 'One of Ashley's boyfriends.'

"A number of the management committee responded with laughter and when Ashley
stood up and explained the statement was out of order and should be retracted,
rather than seeking an apology, the acting chair from Conservative central
office shouted at Mr Crossley to 'sit down and shut up'."

Central office has also been told that another official rang Mr Ashley's mother,
who lives locally, and told her that "people like her son should be put in a
dustbin and pissed on". One source indicated that, rather than muted, the abuse
had been sustained and overt.

The eight members of the management committee have now been suspended, though
largely because they allegedly promoted a United Kingdom Independence party
video before the European elections.

guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 26, 2004, Thursday

'Bribery and fraud rife' in postal vote

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy and David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 1066 words


INTIMIDATION, bribery and fraud were widespread in the June local elections,
according to court documents seen by The Times as a report is expected to demand
sweeping changes to postal voting.

One postman was threatened with having his throat cut, post boxes were set on
fire and the Royal Mail replaced red mail vans with white ones to protect staff,
it is claimed.

When the Electoral Commission publishes its analysis of the elections today, The
Times understands that it will press the Government to undertake reforms
including:

*Allowing each member of a household to register individually with their own
signature, rather than relying on the head of household to sign for everyone.

*Scrapping the requirement for a vote to be witnessed, which gave rise to
confusion and claims of intimidation.

*Encouraging more polling station-style help points in all-postal areas.

*Reviewing the provision of postal votes on demand introduced in 2000.

*Improving planning after thousands of forms arrived late or were mis directed.

Some experts believe the report into the simultaneous local and European polls
should also say whether certain areas, such as Asian communities which saw the
most fraud claims, are unsuitable for all-postal voting.

Police investigations into alleged electoral discrepancies.have been launched in
Greater Manchester, Cheshire, Lancashire, West Yorkshire and Derbyshire.

Supporters of all parties were involved in the misuse of postal ballots,
according to High Court documents calling for the election results to be
declared invalid.

Two petitions request a judge to overturn elections to Birmingham City Council,
Britain's largest, where postal vote applications rose from 24,000 to 70,000.

Hugh McCallion, Birmingham's deputy Labour leader, said that the petitions from
the Liberal Democrats and the People's Justice Party involved "wild allegations"
and a "scattergun approach".

One petition claims: "Attempts were made by Labour supporters in Bordesley Green
to bribe a postman and he was threatened with having his throat cut. The Royal
Mail also changed the colour of their vans from red to white to protect the
postmen. Post boxes containing a number of ballots were set alight to invalidate
the votes.

"Threats of deportation were made by Labour supporters to first generation
migrants if they did not sign postal vote papers to vote Labour. Postal voters
were pressurised by Labour Party candidates and agents into casting their vote
for the Labour slate whilst the Labour Party agents stood over the voter
watching them cast their vote.

"Children were paid to collect postal votes that were sticking out of people's
doors.

"Postal ballots which had been opened, the vote changed and then resealed were
accepted as valid votes notwithstanding the evidence that duress (or fraud) may
have been used to change the votes (Tippex was used as well as crossing out the
vote)."

It is also claimed that a candidate was seen coming into a school "with
something under his jumper...which turned out to be postal ballots".

The petition claims that the police were called when candidates were seen taking
bags of postal votes to a deserted road. Asian candidates were "from different
ethnic groups and did not trust each other. They were expected to show the
ballot papers to each other to ensure all three Labour candidates had been voted
for".

Mohammed Kazi, a candidate, later said that they they had been "sorting out" the
postal ballots. "No one has explained what 'sorting out' means," the petition
states. Mr Kazi was cleared by police of any wrongdoing.

"A massive organised electoral fraud mainly involving the misuse of postal
ballots was committed by the winning Labour candidates in this election and
their agents," the petition claims.

It continues: "This fraud was planned by Labour supporters and involved informal
liaison between Labour candidates in a number of wards as to how to abuse the
process. A 'blind eye' is turned by elements in the Labour Party organisation to
these activities because they benefit the Labour Party."

Another petition, challenging the result in Bordesley Green ward, claims that an
unsealed ballot box containing 1,700 votes appeared at the count. "All the votes
were complete(d) in one ink and each and every one was cast in favour of the
three Labour Party candidates," the petition claims. The votes were counted,
giving Labour victory over the People's Justice Party.

A candidate was stopped by police with a bag containing unmarked postal ballot
packs, the petition alleges.

Bordesley Green had more postal vote applications than any ward in Birmingham.
On polling day, dozens of voters were refused a vote because they had been
recorded as applying for a postal ballot without their knowledge.

Mr McCallion said: "The allegations have been so wild and flung around like
confetti that we couldn't go chasing all these hares. It's a scattergun approach
to try to end up with a few things the court might be concerned about."

Two petitions are from Yorkshire & the Humber, one of four regions where the
Government imposed all-postal voting. In the Halifax area, Conservative
candidates for Calderdale's Park ward describe the experiment as "a total
failure". They claim that electors were unable to vote alone and that votes were
collected from households by a candidate.

In Hull, John Considine, an Independent candidate beaten by seven votes by the
UK Independence Party, complains of voters receiving the wrong ballot papers. In
one ward, 2,990 ballot papers were counted although only 2,659 envelopes had
been returned, his petition alleges.

An investigation by The Times before the June 10 polling day found widespread
claims of intimidation, vote-stealing and trickery in Yorkshire & the Humber and
northwest England.

The Government has postponed referendums on regional assemblies in both areas
because of lack of public confidence in postal-only voting.

It is pressing ahead with a plebiscite in the North East on November 4.

Edward Davey MP, a Liberal Democrat representative, said that his party opposed
all-postal voting. "Our biggest concern has always been fraud," he said. "Even
with individual registration we would still be concerned about fraud. The best
form of security will always be a polling station."


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 26, 2004, Thursday

Howard attacks 'crazy' political correctness

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 751 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will seek today to shift political battle lines further back
towards traditional Tory territory by castigating the way "political correctness
has gone mad".

His speech in Stafford today echoes the tough message he delivered on crime this
month, as well as the increasingly strident tone adopted by Shadow Cabinet
colleagues this summer on immigration, the Human Rights Act and antisocial
behaviour.

The Conservative leader will say: "A culture which fails to distinguish between
right and wrong, in the name of equal 'rights' for all, is a distorted culture.

Political correctness is a culture that offends our nation's sense of tolerance,
our sense of honesty, our sense of balance."

Mr Howard's speech avoids the sensitive issues of race or sexual orientation,
often associated with political correctness. Instead, he will cite examples such
as a Government-backed booklet warning nursery teachers that playing musical
chairs encourages aggressive behaviour, or advice to schools that sports days
should be replaced with group "problem-solving exercises".

It concludes with the kind of phrase familiar to readers of right-wing tabloid
newspapers: "In Britain today, political correctness has gone mad. And it is
driving people crazy."

Labour was swift to point out the similarity between the Tory leader's speech
and countless references to the issue by William Hague before the general
election.

Mr Howard will, for example, say: "Whenever there is a conflict between
political correctness and common sense, let me tell you where I stand. I stand
firmly on the side of common sense." Mr Hague said in 2001: "Practical common
sense is giving way to political correctness and plain speaking to spin."

Aides deny that Mr Howard is reverting to the "core vote" strategy deployed by
Mr Hague at the general election. They emphasise that the attack on political
correctness dovetails with existing policy on cutting regulation, reducing the
size of the state and giving individuals more responsibility over their lives.

They acknowledge, however, that there is a concerted effort to "talk more about
our home-ground issues". The decision means less emphasis will be placed, in the
short term at least, on health and education, in a tacit recognition that the
party has made little headway against the Government on this agenda. One adviser
said: "As a former Home Secretary, Mr Howard has a strong personal idenfication
with law and order issues. That can only help us."

The change of tack follows a disastrous June and July for the Tory leader in
which his political honeymoon as party leader came to an abrupt halt. The
success of the UK Independence Party in attracting former Tory voters at the
European elections in June has alarmed many MPs, some of whom urged Mr Howard to
shore up support among traditional supporters.

They fear being outflanked from the right by the UKIP and have privately
criticised the Conservative leadership for failing to have a "plan B" for the
European elections after the Government's U-turn over a referendum on the EU
constitution.

Mr Howard has also been damaged by his allegedly opportunistic "flip-flop" on
support for the Iraq war and lacklustre performances against Tony Blair in the
row over the use of intelligence on weapons of mass destruction.

The Tories' summertime woes continued with a dismal third place showing in two
parliamentary by-elections and a row over the influence wielded by a so-called
"Notting Hill set" within the party.

"July was a long time ago and all that will be forgotten by now," aides say. The
focus on law and order is part of a process that will move on to the economy and
taxation as the party conference season gets under way next month.

"We recognise there is still a gap to be closed," a party strategist said.
"People no longer trust the Government, but nor are they necessarily ready to
give their trust to us. We will use the conference to show how we will make a
difference to voters' lives."

Some senior party figures say that the mood of optimism that greeted Mr Howard's
election as leader last year has been replaced by an "air of resignation" over
the prospect of another landslide Labour victory. The party has not yet even
selected a candidate for the forthcoming Hartlepool by-election and, despite
being second behind Labour in 2001, is said to have already conceded that the
Liberal Democrats will be the main challengers in the contest.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               17 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 26, 2004, Thursday

Fight to save seat for gay candidate

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 295 words


A PLAN to save a homosexual election candidate from deselection was revealed by
the Tory party yesterday.

The entire hierarchy of the Conservative Association in Falmouth and Camborne -
Lord Coe's former seat -was suspended last month for viewing videos promoted by
the UK Independence Party. Conservative Central Office took action after being
informed of this and other issues by the agent for Ashley Crossley, the
candidate.

Mr Crossley, a barrister who lives in London, issued a statement saying that the
eight members of the association "stand in the way of victory" for the Tories.

But those eight have put their names to a petition that gathered enough names to
force a vote on Mr Crossley's deselection.

Last night letters went out inviting all 650 members of the association in the
constituency to attend the meeting on September 8 where they can vote on Mr
Crossley's future.

However, Richard Stephens, appointed by Central Office as the interim manager of
the association, said that they may put a second proposition to the vote. This
would be to delay a decision on Mr Crossley's future until the appeal that
decides the fate of the eight suspended members is heard in London the following
week.

Dorothy Smith, the suspended treasurer of the association, said she was shocked
to hear that the vote may be delayed.

"This is the first I've heard about it, from a journalist, and I think that just
about says it all," said Mrs Smith, who has instigated libel action against a
fellow Conservative association member.

"But it is not a gay issue," she said. "It is the candidate's 'I know
everything' attitude that has made him a figure of fun in the constituency."

Michael Howard has given Mr Crossley his full support.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 26, 2004, Thursday

Sir Ran puts his heart into Everest

BYLINE: Giles Whittell

SECTION: Features; Times2; 6

LENGTH: 1791 words


DESPITE HEART PROBLEMS SIR RANULPH FIENNES STILL PLANS TO CLIMB EVEREST NEXT
SPRING. HE TELLS GILES WHITTELL THAT HE'S SCARED, BUT NOT SCARED ENOUGH

CAN ANYONE CLIMB Everest? Even a 60-year-old with a problem heart and vertigo?
The question is unfair, because this particular vertigo sufferer is Sir Ranulph
Fiennes, polar explorer and guinea pig emeritus for cruel and unusual tests of
human stamina.

But still, consider the following: Two weeks ago Fiennes found himself 5,486m
(18,000ft) up on the crater rim of Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. He had included
Kilimanjaro on his preparation schedule for Everest at short notice, but was
going strong. He was short of breath in the thin air, but that was to be
expected. Then, as his guide began accelerating towards the summit and Fiennes
tried to keep up, he suddenly felt exactly what he dreaded most: a tightening of
the chest where it encased his heart. It was a bad moment in a bad year for a
man unused to having to cope with the sort of weaknesses that afflict the rest
of us. Fourteen months ago Fiennes had a well-publicised heart attack of a kind
that often kills (and that even when followed by life-saving surgery requires
further operations within five years in 75 per cent of cases). Four months after
his double bypass he ran seven marathons in seven consecutive days, starting in
Patagonia and ending in New York, untroubled either by the lengths of leg vein
grafted to his heart to act as new arteries or the metal stent inserted into one
of his old ones. But the risk of another heart attack grows with time.

High on Kilimanjaro he thought he was having one. "I felt weird," he says.
"Oddly emotional, which is rare." He found himself thinking about death, and
about his wife, Ginny, who died in February after her stomach cancer was
diagnosed on the day of his return from the seven marathons. He made it to the
top of Kilimanjaro and descended quickly. The tight chest and the morbid
thinking left him and he chalked them both up to altitude. Those who know him
would have expected nothing less; Fiennes is an expert rationaliser of his own
dire straits. But he also knows what's really at stake, even if he prefers not
to talk about it. Chest twinges are not a classic symptom of altitude sickness.
Splitting headaches are. Furthermore, he kept a diary of his ascent in which he
noted without comment on August 5: "Two South Africans dropped dead (separately)
of heart attacks. One near summit and one in the West Breach."

Fiennes has also talked through his Everest attempt with the medical consultant
to the British guiding firm that has undertaken to help him with it. In a follow
up e-mail, the doctor, David Hillebrandt, noted: "I did tell you of one recent
client who had a heart attack on top of a 6,500m peak about six months after
having an apparently successful stent operation on his coronary arteries. He was
passed as fit by myself, his cardiologist and his GP and climbing partner, and
20 other high-altitude doctors later agreed with our advice at a conference.
Life has risks."

Everest is more than two kilometres higher than that 6,500m peak. Fiennes is
planning to attempt a northern route from China that requires spending more time
above 8,000m -in what the Everest hype industry now calls the death zone -than
the southern one from Nepal.

Conquering the world's highest mountain can seem routine. Thanks to bottled
oxygen and kilometres of route-bashing by entrepreneurial sherpas, a 70-year-old
Japanese man has managed it. So has a 15-year-old girl and a certain Erik
Weihenmayer, from Englewood, Colorado, who is blind. But in Fiennes's case the
plain truth is that an Everest climb could very well kill him.

It may be to take his mind off this that he has conceived the project as a
deeply personal effort to conquer something entirely unconnected to his heart:
his fear of heights. He defines this fear in terms that some people will find
ridiculous.

As a schoolboy, he would scale Eton's domes and lightning rods at night, fearing
not the long drop to the ground but the risks of being caught. As a young man he
joined the SAS ("the airborne people"), for which he had to learn to parachute,
free-falling with his eyes open so as not to hit his comrades.

He is ashamed, he says, to admit that he kept them shut. Thirty-odd years ago he
even climbed the Matterhorn by the legendary Hornli ridge and says that he found
it easy. But still he insists that he's scared of heights, and it takes a while
to understand that in the Fiennes lexicon this means that he is not yet
completely, inhumanly unafraid of them. Which is why, last Saturday, he strode
into a bar in Zermatt after a week's training in the southern Swiss Alps
complaining that he had not been scared enough.

Torrential rain and snow in neighbouring Saastal had confined him to a climber's
hut on orders from the Swiss Alpine Club when the plan had been to teeter along
one of the sharpest, highest ridges in Europe. He had pleaded to be allowed "to
get cold, wet and frightened", but to no avail. Now, over a cardiac-friendly
Apfelsaft, he begged one of his British guides to arrange for him to be "looking
a really long way down, vertically, between my legs".

It is 22 years since the Transglobe Expedition that covered both poles and made
Fiennes famous; 11 years since the The Guinness Book of Records called him the
world's greatest living explorer; and ten months since he gave a metaphorical
middle finger to all those urging caution on him after his heart attack.

In normal circumstances even his loudest cheerleaders might be expecting him to
ease off now and start planning a dignified retirement. Yet his circumstances
are far from normal. He is a widower, and cannot (will not?) get used to it.
Lady Fiennes was his immediate family. She reared a herd of thoroughbred
Aberdeen Angus at their farm on Exmoor, and loved them dearly, but never had
children. During her lifetime Fiennes himself was often mistaken for a loner.
Her death has left him truly alone. "Friends told me the passing of time would
help," he says. "They may be right, but time is not doing its magic yet for me."

In the meantime his strategy has been to work flat out -on book tours, speaking
engagements and peculiarly masochistic ultramarathons, including a recent non
stop 48-hour slog entirely within Edinburgh that required competitors to run
into Debenhams carrying mountain bikes, take a lift to the roof and ride over
the sponsor's brand new off-road vehicles which had somehow been positioned
there.

Fiennes fell twice.

"There was a lot of blood," he comments. But not much genuine distraction from
loneliness. He's sticking to constant work as a way of organising his time
partly because he disdains the self-absorbed emoting that a psychotherapist
might require of him, partly because he hasn't thought of anything better, and
this goes at least some way to answering "Why Everest?"

He volunteers another reason. "I think Ginny would have been very worried," he
says. "She got used to knowing that polar things were very unlikely to end up
with any problem. However, she somehow shared my fear of mountains and thought
of them as hostile."

She will, then, be spared the anxieties of a climber's spouse. But has her death
also flipped a switch within him that means he no longer recognises any limits
to his risk-taking? For a long, long minute, Ran -which is what everyone who's
met him calls him -cannot speak.

Eventually, swallowing hard, he goes back to his fear of heights, not so much to
change the subject as to approach it from another angle. By this time we're in
Italy, in the dining room of an Italian mountain hut flanked by tumbling
glaciers, 3,700m up on a spur of black rock beneath the two peaks with the best
names in the Alps: Castor and Pollux. We got here from Zermatt via a frontier
ridge made entirely of snow and ice with an overhanging crest the width of a
coin. (The guides had obliged.) Had Ran fallen back into Switzerland, the rest
of us, attached to him by rope, would have had no option but to leap down into
Italy and hope that the knots held. The route was the width of two boots and it
snaked along the ridge just over a metre from the crest. "Last year," he says,
"there's no way I would have managed that. Now you find yourself thinking 'Yeah,
that steep bit doesn't matter'. And that's enormously helpful...to have
something new, something dreadful in my case -which makes you think, 'So
what...if by chance you did slip and fall, what the hell?' " Fiennes is deeply
worried about saying anything that might give the impression he's being driven
up Everest by a recklessness born of bereavement. And yet this is undeniably
part of his motivation; if not recklessness, then fatalism. He might get scared.
He might even slip.

It doesn't matter. This being so, he has decided that he might as well confront
something more frightening than an audience on his well-trodden lecture circuit.

Finding backers for Everest hasn't been straightforward, however, partly because
the outcome is so uncertain.

Half his costs are being met by Paul Sykes, the millionaire bankroller of the UK
Independence Party, even though Fiennes has been cool to suggestions that he
should seek office as a UKIP MP. And Jagged Globe, one of Britain's two biggest
Himalayan-guiding firms, insisted he take a crash course in 21st-century
mountaineering to be considered for a £35,000 place on one of its Everest trips,
and for the insurance he must buy along with the place. This past fortnight in
the Alps has been stage one of that course. He is surprisingly deferential to
his guides, but maniacal about his own fitness. On Monday, after getting up at
4am to climb Castor and Pollux by elevenses, he returned to Zermatt, eschewed
beer, and went on a two-hour run. Stage two will take place in October on the
flanks of two giant Ecuadorean volcanoes, gaining vital experience of
ice-climbing at altitude.

If his guides give him the nod, he will head next spring for Tibet, and one of
the sternest tests ever devised for the human heart. He will be accompanying
Sibusiso Vilane, a park ranger from Botswana who last year became the first
black person to conquer Everest. Vilane did it from the South and now wants to
complete the double by doing the northern route as well. They will be guided
every step of the way.

Their heavy equipment will be carried by Sherpas. There are now fixed ropes,
like guide rails, to the very top of the world. The South Pole this is not, but
for Fiennes it may still be the most dangerous thing he's ever done.

Is Fiennes a hero, or just reckless? E-mail debate@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 25, 2004

Lord Smallpox's Pounds 1/2m

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 886 words


Political Correspondent

TONY Blair was plunged into a new ' cash for favours' row last night after it
emerged that a controversial drugs tycoon gave Labour more than Pounds 500,000
only weeks after receiving a peerage.

The extraordinary donation from multimillionaire Paul Drayson led to new
accusationsof sleaze and calls for donations to political parties to be capped.

Lord Drayson, who was made a working peer by Mr Blair in May, has already been
at the centre of one dispute over Labour funding.

His pharmaceutical company PowderJect made an estimated Pounds 20million when
ministers chose it to supply smallpox vaccine after the September 11 attacks.

The deal was mired in controversy because Lord Drayson had already made two
Pounds 50,000 donations to Labour and was one of a select group of businessmen
who met the Prime Minister at a Downing Street breakfast in December 2001, just
before PowderJect won the contract.

The latest party accounts publishedby the Electoral Commission-show that Lord
Drayson, said to be worth about Pounds 60million after selling PowderJect, made
a Pounds 505,000 gift to Labour on June 17 six weeks after he was sent to the
Lords.

His inclusion among the 23 Labour working peers had prompted controversy because
of the row over the smallpox deal. But news of his latest donation was greeted
with astonishment in Westminster.

It was the biggest single donation to Labour in the second quarter of this year,
the period covered by the accounts.

Tory spokesman Howard Flight said: 'This looks like a very generous thank-you
present for Mr Blair.

'Quite a few Labour peers appear to have been generous donors and this looks
like the most naked example of the lot.' Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrats'
campaign strategist, said: 'There should be a cap on very large donations to all
parties, to avoid the suspicion that money is buying influence or favours.'
Former MP Martin Bell, who stood on an 'anti-sleaze' ticket, backed the calls
for a cap and pointed out that four of the five latest Tory appointments to the
Lords were significant party benefactors.

He said: ' Peerages are being bought and sold on a scale not seen since the days
of Lloyd George.' Labour has been rocked by a series of 'cash for favours' rows.
The first involved a Pounds 1million gift from Formula One motor racing chief
Bernie Ecclestone which was followed by Government backing for his sport to be
exempted from a ban on tobacco advertising and sponsorship.

The party was forced to return the cash in the ensuing uproar.

Indian tycoon Lakshmi Mittal received Mr Blair's backing in his bid to buy a
Romanian steel plant after giving Labour more than Pounds 100,000 and there was
another row over a Pounds 100,000 donation from adult magazine publisher Richard
Desmond.

It came shortly after the Government said there was nothing to stop Mr Desmond
taking over Express Newspapers.

Peter Mandelson resigned as Northern Ireland Secretary after claims that he
personally intervened to help a British passport application from controversial
Indian businessman Srichand Hinduja, a major donor to the ill-fated Millennium
Dome. An inquiry later cleared Mr Mandelson of deliberate deceit.

The PowderJect saga dates back to late 2001, when the Government was seeking to
build up stocks of smallpox vaccine to use in case of a biological attack by
terrorists.

Documents released earlier this year showed that Lord Drayson gained a crucial
early advantage in winning the contract by securing a deal with the only
manufacturer able to supply the right type of jab quickly.

The papers were made public only after a clash between Health Secretary John
Reid and the Parliamentary Ombudsman, Ann Abraham.

The Department of Health had kept the files secret for two years, claiming that
to publish them would compromise national security and commercial interests.

Ministers have repeatedly insisted there was no connection between Lord
Grayson's donations and the smallpox contract or a later deal to supply TB
vaccines. Inquiries by the National Audit Office and Commons public accounts
committee also found no link between the gifts and the initial contract.

Downing Street insisted last night that Lord Drayson's Pounds 500,000 donation
was a matter for the Labour Party, but a party spokesman refused to comment.

Lord Drayson did not respond to requests for comment, but he said earlier this
year: 'People should remember I have given Pounds 4.5million to charity, so my
Labour donation is put into perspective.' The accounts published yesterday
showed Labour pulled in Pounds 4.4million of donations in three months.

Venture capitalist Sir Ronald Cohen made another substantial donation worth
Pounds 250,000 in May.

He made a series of large gifts to the party both before and after being
knighted in 2000.

The Tories were given Pounds 3.6million over the same period, up Pounds 1million
on the previous quarter.

The United Kingdom Independence Party received Pounds 1.2million overtaking the
Liberal Democrats.

Most of the money came from Yorkshire businessman Paul Sykes's firm, which spent
Pounds 715,000 on advertisements in the run-up to the June Euro-elections at
which the party won 12 seats.

Comment Page 12

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LORD DRAYSON: 60M FORTUNE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               20 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 25, 2004, Wednesday

Howard support for gay Tory in deselection row

BYLINE: By Richard Savill and Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: News Pg. 06

LENGTH: 379 words

MICHAEL Howard last night offered his full support to a homosexual Tory facing
an attempt to deselect him as a candidate in a winnable seat.

Conservative Central Office said Ashley Crossley, who faces a deselection battle
in Falmouth and Camborne next month, was an "excellent candidate" who had its
full support.

Mr Howard stepped in because the row, in a seat where Labour is defending a
4,500 majority, threatens to undermine his attempts to show that the Tories have
buried their anti-gay reputation.

Sixty-six local activists have signed a motion of no confidence in Mr Crossley,
one of the few homosexual Tory candidates in a target seat. His fate will be
decided at a full meeting of the 630-strong association on Sept 8.

The critics have not explained in writing why they want to replace Mr Crossley,
but his allies believe part of the explanation is that they are concerned with
his sexuality.

According to supporters, Mr Crossley, 31, a barrister living in London, has
never attempted to hide the fact that he is homosexual. The subject did not come
up directly at his selection meeting but Mr Crossley's supporters believe that
at the time members knew they were selecting a homosexual candidate.

Since his selection Mr Crossley has fallen out with key members of the
association. The constituency's leadership was suspended by Central Office this
month for allegedly promoting a United Kingdom Independence Party video. Mr
Crossley supported Central Office.

The attempt to deselect him has been led by the eight members of the executive
who were suspended as office holders, though not as association members. One of
the various allegations against the eight is that they failed to check or
censure alleged "homophobic comments" by a member of the management team at an
executive meeting.

A party member who signed the motion against Mr Crossley said: "People don't
think he is good enough for the job. This man has decided to come down here and
walk over everybody. He is to blame for the suspensions."

The activist said: "We have no problem with his sexuality but he should have
disclosed he had been living with a man for seven years."

Conservative Central Office last night issued a statement saying it had "full
confidence" in Mr Crossley.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               21 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 25, 2004, Wednesday

Double Tory turn-off

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 232 words

Just weeks before the Hartlepool by-election, the once-great Tory election
machine has yet to be plugged in - let alone switched on.

With Labour, Lib Dem and UKIP candidates long in place, a Conservative has still
to be selected. Michael Howard, meanwhile, didn't even bother to drop by when in
nearby Middlesbrough a few days ago.

That omission infuriated local party officials, but amazingly the same mistake
is set to be made again.

For Spy hears that Shadow Cabinet minister Theresa May is also planning to give
Hartlepool the cold shoulder when she visits the North-east today.

"The lack of fighting spirit is beyond belief," says my man with the whippets.
"May is going to be in Tynemouth, which is only 30 miles away, but she can't be
bothered to come here and bang the drum. It's as if Hartlepool's been airbrushed
from the map."

Conservative Central Office - recently moved to sparkling new headquarters - may
have some great masterplan up its sleeve, but if so then it's not yet ready to
share it with the rest of us.

"We don't have a date for the Hartlepool selection yet," says a spokesman. "I
can't really say any more than that."

As for the idea that May - a former party chairman, no less (though also no
more) - could make a short detour today, he added: "Theresa is in Tynemouth to
launch the Conservative Urban Alliance. That is the focus of the visit."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               22 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 25, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Nobody tells us when we win: The public's festering
hostility towards Brussels is the result of politicians' secretive and
inadequate scrutiny of EU matters

BYLINE: Chris Huhne

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 993 words


The government and the House of Commons may just be edging towards a discovery
about our dismal relations with the European Union. If the role of British
ministers in making every key EU decision is hidden from the British people by a
secretive and ineffective Commons scrutiny system, then it is not surprising
that the British feel that the EU is disconnected and bureaucratic. Brussels is
"them" who do things to "us". EU law is often presented as alien even by the
ministers who agreed it.

The result of such unwholesome practices is that British public opinion is the
most Eurosceptic in the EU. Fewer of us think that there are benefits to our
membership than other Europeans. More of us think that the EU is undemocratic.
More of us want to withdraw than in any other member state. Ukip's rise has
given us the largest party committed to exit in any of the 25 member states.

The reasons for this festering hostility to the EU lie mainly in Britain, not
Brussels. Certainly, the EU does stupid things. But most of the 450 million
European citizens are wise enough to know that a set of institutions that
delivers peace, prosperity and the power to tackle cross-border problems such as
pollution is not going to be perfect. The calculus, comparing the past 50 years
with any previous 50 years of European history, is overwhelmingly positive.

The real problem is that successive British governments have failed to make it
clear that no major EU decision is taken without British ministers
participating, and generally agreeing. The most sensitive issues - such as tax -
require unanimity. Even when issues are agreed by majority, Britain is outvoted
less often than any other major member state. We win from majority voting.

But would we know it? British MPs often react like scalded cats when they
discover that some EU directive has been agreed by ministers and MEPs, and is
all over bar the shouting. Once a minister has signed off a directive in
Brussels, and it is approved by the European parliament, the UK is committed to
implementing its objectives, usually by means of a statutory instrument which
requires no Commons debate. We are then even more surprised when Whitehall
implements the directive adding items from its own agenda: so-called
"gold-plating".

The reason for our ignorance is the woeful inadequacy of the Commons' scrutiny
of EU matters. Despite dealing with some 12 directives since 1999, there was not
a single occasion on which the scrutiny committee either called me to give
evidence or sent me its views. The Commons scrutiny committee meets in secret
with a procedure that essentially involves sifting the paperwork that spews from
the EU commission. Not surprisingly, it is swamped.

Nor is this record compensated by greater activity on the backbenches. In a
recent survey of written parliamentary questions, my colleague Chris Davies MEP
found that a mere 79 questions out of 40,000 put down during one session
concerned British ministers' attitudes in the council of ministers. There were
92 council meetings, each attended by a British minister, during that time.

This failure to hold ministers to account has an unintended consequence. Because
ministers know that there is no political downside in agreeing EU directives and
regulations, they often delegate negotiations to British officials. A Brussels
bureaucracy is met by a British one. Issues that should properly be political -
because they involve values, and have political consequences - are never lifted
to a political level except in the European parliament, where MEPs do not have
the same profile as ministers.

The Nordic countries have shown there is a much better way. Another Eurosceptic
country, Denmark, pioneered the idea of examining Danish ministers before they
went to each council meeting. Ministers are even given a rigid negotiating
mandate. Danish scrutiny is high profile, public and unrelenting. As a result,
the Danish Folketing - and the Danes - are forewarned and forearmed.

The Danish system has its faults. Danish ministers can be so tied down that
other ministers do not find it worthwhile negotiating with them, as they know
they have no flexibility beyond their public position. The best model is the
Finnish Eduskunta. Its grand committee of senior parliamentarians takes evidence
before each ministerial meeting. It allows ministers to interpret a mandate
flexibly.

It can also, crucially, call for specialist evidence from its select committees.
One of the great myths of Brussels is that you need to be a Brussels specialist
to understand it. In fact, the core expertise in scrutinising a law on abattoirs
is an understanding of abattoirs, not of Brussels procedures. And such expertise
is more likely in a select committee than the foreign affairs committee. EU law
is domestic, not a branch of foreign policy.

Will it happen here? Peter Hain, the leader of the House of Commons, shows some
signs of rising to the challenge. He - and perhaps the modernisation committee
that he chairs - is beginning to realise the connection between the lack of
Commons scrutiny and Euroscep ticism. He has proposed a grand committee, meeting
in public. So far, so good. The problem is that he has proposed that it meet
just twice or four times a year.

By contrast, the Nordic grand committees meet almost weekly, so that they can
take evidence from ministers before every EU council. That is the guarantee that
they are well- informed, and examine the issues before decisions are taken
rather than succumb to shock afterwards. If the modernisation committee is to do
more than genuflect to the need for EU scrutiny, it needs to face the far
greater time commitment required of some MPs. Let us hope that it does, for our
EU membership may depend on it.

Chris Huhne, a Liberal Democrat MEP, recently gave evidence on EU scrutiny to
the Commons modernisation committee

chuhne@europarl.eu.int


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               23 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 25, 2004

On May 1 Paul Drayson was given a peerage. On June 17 he gave Labour a £500,000
cheque

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 655 words


Paul Drayson, the biotechnology entrepreneur who gave the Labour party £100,000
while successfully bidding for a lucrative government vaccine contract, also
gave it another £500,000 within six weeks of being made a life peer, the
Electoral Commission revealed yesterday.

The latest gift was part of £4.3m of donations obtained by Labour in the second
April-to-June quarter of this year, comfortably ahead of the Conservatives on
£3.6m.

The £925,000 given to the Liberal Democrats was topped by a sharp rise in funds
for the UK Independence party, at £1.25m, as the Kilroy-Silk factor took it
towards 12 seats in the June 10 EU elections.

Though big-name Tory donors such as Lord Stanley Kalms also featured in
yesterday's commission report - itself part of the Labour reforms instituted
after the sleaze rows of the 1990s - Lord Drayson's was the focus of comment
last night.

He was away on holiday, having severed executive links with his former company,
Powderject, and made his maiden speech in the Lords as a champion of the kind of
bioscientific enterprise Tony Blair is eager to foster in Britain.

Labour insists that Lord Drayson is a wealthy man -his family shared £100m when
Powderject was sold to GlaxoSmithKline -and is at liberty to make such a gift.
Two inquiries have cleared ministers and the company of impropriety over the
award of a £32m contract to provide the Department of Health with smallpox
vaccine, party officials stressed last night.

But in the smoke-and-mirrors world of party donations and honours, where all the
main parties have had grubby hands, there were immediate complaints from
outsiders.

"The one clear message from this latest donations report is that UK political
parties are in thrall to the few, not the many," said Dr Peter Facey, director
of the New Politics Network.

Trade union executives as well as wealthy individual donors also expected
parties to be answerable to them, thereby undermining democratic engagement, he
said.

He cited the the huge impact which the Yorkshire IT millionaire, Paul Sykes,
could have at UKIP for the £715,000 his company spent on UKIP campaign adverts.

Liberal Democrat Chris Rennard, who was made a peer for winning byelections,
also complained last night that "no one should be able to exercise
disproportionate influence as a result of large donations. In a democracy
millions of pounds should not be more important than millions of votes."

Lord Rennard called for a cap on individual donations "to avoid the suspicion
that money is buying influence or favours". Instead Labour has imposed a system
of transparency whereby donations must be declared if they exceed £5,000 at
national level or £1,000 at constituency level.

What exactly Lord Drayson may or may not have got for his donations has been a
mat ter of dispute. The National Audit Office and the Commons science and
technology committee investigated the smallpox vaccine contract and both cleared
all parties.

Ironically, his coup was that of a middleman, not a scientific one. He bought
the UK rights to the Lister strain vaccine that the defence ministry wanted to
buy from Bavarian-Nordic, the German-Danish company which makes it.

In the run-up to the last election the Tories got £12m in donations, double the
Labour rate.

This time the venture capitalist, Sir Ronald Cohen, has made a substantial
donation to Labour - £250,000 - in May. The betting mogul Sir Stuart Wheeler has
given the Tories £25,000, as has Lord Kalms. Sir Stuart gave the Tories £5m at
the last election.

Labour claims that it still has "the broadest base of funding of any party", and
even rising membership levels.

The party's annual accounts for 2003 show that increased income from membership
subscriptions, trade unions and individual donations such as Lord Drayson's
provided Labour with an operating surplus in 2003 of £2.6m.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               24 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 25, 2004

Brits in brief

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 464 words


*Britain's sailors are assured of yet another medal because of the scintillating
progress of Chris Draper and Simon Hiscocks in the 49er, but the colour will not
be known until after tomorrow's final race.

It means Britain are on target to repeat their performance in Sydney four years
ago when they finished as the top nation at the regatta.

Draper and Hiscocks made light of testing conditions yesterday. They shot off
the starting line and into a narrow lead over their Ukrainian rivals, and put
three boats between the two teams before the finish.

In the second race, their start was less than auspicious and they spent the
whole race trying to recover places, moving from 14th to ninth at the finish.

The third race was won by Tim Wadlow and Pete Spaulding of the USA, but third
and fifth for the Ukrainians and Britons respectively sees them second and third
overall behind Spain.

Only three points covers the third to seventh position occupied by Britons Iain
Percy and Steve Mitchell in the Star class, with six races down and five to go.

Bob Fisher in Athens

*The Paris bid for the 2012 Olympics won backing from a British political party
yesterday. Members of the Eurosceptic UK Independence Party (UKIP) - who
advocate immediate withdrawal from the European Union - unfurled a huge banner
outside London's city hall with "Paris 2012 Candidate City" written above the
Olympic rings.

UKIP, whose support surged in recent European Parliament elections, said it
withdrew backing for London's bid because of the huge costs involved - but said
it would reconsider if Londoners were offered a referendum on hosting the event.

"If the government wants Londoners to pay for the Olympics in London, there must
be a referendum," said UKIP member Damian Hockney.

"Because Paris already has the infrastructure it might actually be able to make
a profit from the Olympics and we hope they win because they would save Britain
billions of pounds."

The mayor of London Ken Livingstone dismissed UKIP's protest as a stunt. "Some
people will obviously say and do anything to get two minutes on the television,"
he said .

*The British swimmers Stephen Parry and James Gibson, in the Olympic Stadium on
Monday night to watch Kelly Holmes win 800m gold, enjoyed re-enacting her moment
of triumph when the stadium emptied.

The pair took to the track, ran down the home straight and playfully dipped for
the finishing line, arms aloft in celebration.

*Mark Shipman and Tony Ally both failed to progress beyond the semi-final stages
of the three-metre springboard diving yesterday afternoon.

The pair, fifth in synchronised diving last week, completed identical five-dive
routines but never looked like inching up into the qualifying spots.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               25 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 24, 2004, Tuesday

Rebel Tories target moderniser Letwin

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 258 words

Of the prominent Conservatives whose seats are vulnerable to the Liberal
Democrats, Oliver Letwin (right) probably has the most to worry about. The
shadow chancellor's majority in Dorset West was cut to a mere 1,400 in 2001 and
the Lib Dems are heavily targeting the seat in advance of the general election.

But now, Spy learns, Letwin is being attacked from another flank - by a group of
disillusioned ex-Conservatives.

"Our plan is to stand a rebel Conservative against Letwin at the next election,"
says Mike Smith of the Conservative Democratic Alliance, a hardline offshoot of
the Monday Club. "We want to trash a major Tory star and claim his scalp in
revenge for the anti-traditionalist activities of the modernisers.

"Letwin has been chosen because he is a high-profile moderniser with a
wafer-thin majority," adds Smith, now a self-confessed UKIP sympathiser.

The CDA has been distributing leaflets around Letwin's constituency promoting
anti-EU, anti-immigration and pro-capital punishment policies but, intriguingly,
Smith accepts that its candidate could not win the seat, but only split the Tory
vote. "The Lib Dems will win, but at least they aren't pretending to be
something they're not," he says.

Letwin's constituency chairman, Christopher Etherington, is unconcerned by the
CDA's intervention.

"They're obviously not Conservatives and we don't view them as being a problem,"
he told Spy yesterday. "They don't represent the sort of politics we have in
West Dorset, which are rather conformist and not extremist."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               26 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 21, 2004, Saturday

In the next election, khaki may be the colour

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 435 words

Like generals fighting the last war, politicians are tempted to fight the last
election campaign. There is a consensus in Westminster that Labour won in 2001
because it had the most convincing policies on public services, whereas the
Tories banged on about crime, asylum and Europe. Ergo, the argument goes, next
year's general election will also be about public services.

Yesterday, an interesting Mori poll in the Financial Times showed that this
could be outdated thinking. The electorate's priorities have moved on from 2001,
not least because the intervening period has been dominated by two massive
events: September 11 and the Iraq war. Whereas, three years ago, nearly 60 per
cent thought the NHS was the most important issue facing Britain, now only 34
per cent do. Instead, 38 per cent believe defence/foreign affairs is the biggest
concern, more than any other policy area. Other issues, which might loosely be
termed "threats to the British way of life", have also shot to the top of the
national worry list, including immigration and crime. The economy, by contrast,
is only the principal issue for 10 per cent of people, and Europe positively
sends the electorate to sleep (UKIP, take note).

All this helps to explain why Tony Blair and Labour are still ahead in the
polls, even though that lead is extremely precarious. The economy is growing
strongly, and although economic optimism is deteriorating, the dole queue is a
distant prospect. If people are asked what issues will affect them personally,
as opposed to the country, they still rank public services highly. So the NHS
and education have by no means disappeared off the political radar screen. But,
with the true costs of Gordon Brown's public spending spree, in tax and interest
rate rises, only just becoming apparent, Labour still benefits. Recent Tory
policy initiatives on public services are welcome, but Michael Howard's attacks
on "fat government" will bear fruit only if he offers tax cuts in contrast to
Labour's inevitable third-term tax rises.

From Isandlwana to the Falklands, there are plenty of historical precedents for
the electorate suddenly becoming alarmed as to whether the government is
fulfilling its primary purpose: protecting Britain. Today, voters are fearful
that the Iraq war has been either poorly executed or is a serious mistake; that
another terrorist outrage is on the way; and that the proposed defence cuts are
daft. The flirtation with Charles Kennedy's peacenik Liberals is also waning.
Next year we could see a khaki-ish election like 1945 or 1918. We want to feel
safe and secure again.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               27 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 21, 2004
                              Correction Appended

Mandelson bonds in Brussels: Our man aims to improve image of EU in Britain

BYLINE: Simon Taylor, in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words


Peter Mandelson, who was forced to resign twice from the cabinet amid
allegations of sleaze, yesterday promised to work to improve British people's
opinion of the EU in his new job as trade commissioner.

Speaking after his first meeting in Brussels with the 24 other European
commissioners yesterday, Mr Mandelson said that he would work "to enhance the
relevance of the EU" and "raise its status" in people's minds.

"Until we're able to demonstrate to the general public what (the EU) can do for
their lives we won't receive their support", he said.

He stressed, however, that his main role was to work as European commissioner
for trade and not on British opinion. Looking well in a cream linen suit, blue
striped shirt and blue tie, Mr Mandelson had his first taste of the quality of
life he will enjoy as commissioner when he takes office on November 1.

Following the three-hour meeting Mr Mandelson and his new colleagues sat down to
a lunch of fillet of sole, followed by lamb in a garlic herb crust and
accompanied by fine French wines.

Mr Mandelson admitted that his French was still not quite good enough to enable
him to follow what his French-speaking colleagues said, so he had to rely on
interpretation into English. "I'm keen to improve my French. I love the French
language and French culture and my appreciation will improve if I can speak
French".

Other commissioners said that Mr Mandelson had made a "good contribution" during
the meeting.

The former trade and industry minister rejected suggestions that his efforts to
learn French were designed to allay French suspicions that he was a "Trojan
horse" for imposing Anglo-Saxon free market policies on the EU. "The French know
me better than that", he said.

Mr Mandelson's appointment has attracted negative comment from the current trade
commissioner, Frenchman Pascal Lamy, who said this week that Mr Mandelson might
try and make trade policy "more liberal, more Atlanticist".

But the former Northern Ireland secretary said that he would follow Mr Lamy's
agenda of using trade liberalisation to help developing countries.

His objective, he said, was "to create economic opportunities and benefits from
expanded trade for developing countries to reduce poverty".

Development campaign group Oxfam said that Mr Mandelson had a major
responsibility in ensuring that trade negotiations helped the world's poorest
countries.

Phil Bloomer, head of Oxfam International's Make Trade Fair Campaign said:

"Next year is a key period for trade reform and poverty reduction.

"The EU trade commissioner's role is critical for helping the EU to meet its
international commitments to reform trade rules so that they work for the poor.

"With the right action, Mandelson could make a real difference to the lives of
millions."

The trade portfolio is one of the most demanding jobs in the commission and will
involve frequent travel and hours spent in mind-bogglingly technical
negotiations about grain import tariffs, anti-dumping duties and intellectual
property rights.

To compensate Mr Mandel son will enjoy an annual salary for the next five years
of £150,000 plus a £1,900-a- month housing allowance. He said, however, that he
had not had time yet to look at places to live but his budget would easily allow
him to rent one of Brussels' many beautiful turn-of-the-century art deco houses.

The post also entitles him to a chauffeur-driver car available 24 hours a day.

When he steps down in 2009 he will receive a severance payment of £5,000 a month
for three years and a pension, when he reaches 62, of £2,660 a month until he
dies.

However, Mr Mandelson will have to give up any paid or unpaid work, including a
directorship with advertising agency Clemmow Hornby Inge, a column for GQ maga
zine, a seat on the advisory board of the Independent Media group and working
for French consultancy group, AM Conseil.

Before taking office, Mr Mandelson faces a grilling from the European parliament
which can reject the entire 25-strong team but not individual commissioners.

He rejected suggestions that his political enemies would be able to block his
appointment. "Would the entire commission be slung out because of the amazing
powers of the British Conservatives and Ukip? I wouldn't hold my breath if I
were you", he said.

If he survives the parliament, Mr Mandelson will take up a sumptuous office in
the European commission's star-shaped Berlaymont building which the commission
had to leave in 1994 because of asbestos. Recently refurbished at a cost of
nearly £500m, the building will probably give Mr Mandelson a view of Brussels'
version of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, the imposing Cinquantenaire arch,
completed in 1905 to celebrate Belgian independence, and the surrounding park
where he may choose to walk his two dogs, Bobby and Jack.

Mr Mandelson will, however, have to arrange for someone else to look after his
dogs during the day as there is a ban on bringing animals into the Berlaymont.

There is, however, an exception for guide dogs so David Blunkett would be able
to take his dog in if he were to visit his former cabinet colleague.

guardian.co.uk/politics/eu


LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2004

CORRECTION:  The reference to "Brussels' many beautiful turn-of-the-century art
deco houses" in Mandelson bonds in Brussels, page 2, August 21, was misplaced.
We should have said art nouveau not art deco, which came much later.

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               28 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 20, 2004

A BANNED VIDEO BUT NO SHOCKWAVES

BYLINE: Sir John Nott

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 252 words


IF I hear that a book or film or video is banned, I share the normal human
reaction to get hold of it immediately. The Vatican in olden times, followed by
Hitler and Stalin in my lifetime, were all great suppressors of the truth.

I therefore ordered a banned video called Shockwaves which led to the suspension
by the Tory Party, or so the press reports have indicated, of all the officers
of the Falmouth & Camborne Conservative Party.

Evidently these hapless volunteers watched this video in some dingy hotel as
part of their evening's entertainment - so they have been booted out and
replaced by Gauleiters from Tory Central Office in London.

In the video, which I watched with breathless anticipation, there is a strong
opening of Rule Britannia, much waving of the Union Jack and several pictures of
Winston Churchill. The video turned out to be nothing more than a party
political broadcast by the UK Independence Party recommending our withdrawal
from the European Union.

So counter-productive was the video, even to a dedicated Eurosceptic like
myself, that I shall recommend to Michael Howard that he makes it compulsory
viewing by every Conservative Association in the country. It contained more
propaganda, misleading evasions and exaggerated waffle than a call-to-arms by
our warlord Tony Blair or a party political broadcast by the Liberal Democrats.

What is it - fear or just mismanagement - that leads modern political parties to
behave in such a foolish and intolerant way?

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               29 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 20, 2004, Friday

Howard switches date of speech

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 223 words


THE Conservatives yesterday denied shifting the date of Michael Howard's speech
to the party's annual conference because of fears over the Hartlepool by
election.

The move was announced on the same day as Conservatives in Hartlepool begged the
Tory leadership to provide them with a campaign -weeks after the three other
main contenders had begun.

Mr Howard will break with tradition this year and speak on the Tuesday of the
conference week rather than Thursday, the final day.

This, his aides said, was to "set the agenda, set out the big themes", and
copies the timetable of the Labour Party conference. Some had speculated that
the shift was made to avoid a clash with the by-election, which some suggest
Labour may schedule for Thursday, October 8, to sabotage Mr Howard's speech.

"It's nonsense to suggest it's anything to do with Hartlepool," said a
Conservative spokesman. The Liberal Democrats, Labour and the UK Independence
Party have all selected candidates. However the Conservatives, who fear being
beaten into fourth place, have yet to do so.

George Morris, leader of the Conservative Group on Hartlepool council, said the
city had been abandoned by his party. "We are disturbed by the fact that all the
other candidates are making their play, and here we are sitting knowing
nothing," he said.


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               30 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 19, 2004

HOWARD'S ALL CHANGE TO THWART LABOUR

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


MICHAEL Howard has changed the date of his party conference speech to thwart a
Labour plot to stage the Hartlepool by-election on the same day.

The Tory leader will give the speech on Tuesday October 5 rather than on
Thursday October 7 when the by-election for the seat being vacated by Peter
Mandelson is expected to take place.

Aides of Mr Howard feared a bad result in Hartlepool would overshadow his
message that the Tories can win the next general election.

Labour accused Mr Howard of "running scared" amid signs of Conservative
disarray. The Tories have still not selected a candidate for the seat, and the
man who fought it for them at the last general election, local businessman Gus
Robinson, yesterday revealed he was considering standing as an independent. In
June 2001 Mr Robinson came second, polling 7,935 votes compared to 22,506 for Mr
Mandelson.

But recent strong showings by Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence Party
have led to fears the Conservatives will come a humiliating fourth.

Conservative insiders were last night claiming that Mr Howard's decision to make
his speech on the second day of conference, rather than on the last day, was
primarily motivated by his desire to "set an upbeat tone" early in the week.

But another party source said: "If we have a really bad result in Hartlepool and
come third or fourth, then that would blow Michael's speech out of the water in
terms of press and television coverage the next day."

Labour MP Tom Watson, masterminding the party's campaign in Hartlepool, said:
"The Tories are in total disarray."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               31 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 19, 2004, Thursday

We will destroy BNP, UKIP leader pledges

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 785 words


THE UK Independence Party will set out to destroy the British National Party at
the next general election, one of its leaders said yesterday.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UKIP's group of 11 MEPs in the European
Parliament, told The Times of his party's plans to win a seat in Westminster
next year.

The party is keen for Robert Kilroy-Silk, its most prominent politician, to
stand in the most winnable constituency, backed by a full manifesto. Another
strategy is to tackle the far-right BNP head-on, ruining their chances by
poaching more moderate voters.

"There is only one party in Britain that can stop the BNP and that's UKIP," said
Mr Farage. "Why should we be frightened of that?"

One reason for the UKIP to be frightened is that this is a highly sensitive area
for the party, which, as Mr Farage mentions, has suffered the gibe of being "BNP
in blazers".

Declaring their distance from the BNP while not putting off voters swinging from
either the BNP or any of the main political parties is one of their first
challenges.

"The UKIP is a country mile away from the BNP on any issue. We're not racist,
we're for free trade," he said. "The BNP is authoritarian, whereas the UKIP is
basically a liberal party, which used to be classed as left wing; now it's seen
as right wing," he said.

The UKIP were the fourth largest party in the European elections in June,
gaining 2.7 million votes to the BNP's 800,000. Mr Farage believes that a
substantial number of the BNP voters were anti-immigration Eurosceptics who were
not comfortable with the racism of the BNP but had not heard of the UKIP. Once
its membership had been depleted, the BNP would wither as it lost momentum, he
said.

"All the Labour Party and the Tories do is encourage the BNP. They've created
the BNP," said Mr Farage. "People have justifiable concerns about levels of
immigration which they ignore. If the UKIP were to take half the BNP vote, but
do so because they allowed people to express their anxieties about immigration
but without having to vote for a party that is violent and racist, then we
should not be frightened of that."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who has decided against standing in the Hartlepool by election,
would be strongly encouraged to stand in the general election, he said. "If
Kilroy saw a winnable seat at the next election, I would be pretty surprised if
he didn't do it."

Once described as a party of 8,000 with 9,000 egos, the UKIP now has a
membership of 25,000 and even more provocative personalities -from Mr
Kilroy-Silk's references to Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women
repressors" to the new MEP Godfrey Bloom's statements that a women's role was to
"clean behind the fridge".

Many members are refugees from the Conservative Party, including Piers Merchant,
the disgraced former MP who was recently appointed UKIP's chief executive. Mr
Farage joined the Conservative Party at the age of 14, after Keith Joseph, the
architect of Thatcherism, gave a talk on small government at Dulwich College
where he was a pupil.

He particularly relishes the Conservative Party attack on the UKIP as "cranks
and political gadflies". In response, the UKIP has printed a set of ties with a
"gadfly" logo. "All the UKIP MEPs will be members of the gadfly club," he said.

One newly elected UKIP MEP, Ashley Mote, was deselected almost immediately,
after it was discovered that he faces trial on allegations of housing benefit
fraud.

But Mr Farage said that most of the controversy had been good for the party,
particularly as most of the hierarchy were wealthy businessmen who could afford
to speak their minds. "If there's a common denominator of those who do well in
UKIP, nearly all have run their own business," said Mr Farage, who gave up a
career as a commodities broker, where he earned three times as much as he does
now.

"People like it when we speak out. We need to keep UKIP fresh. If we all became
PC about keeping our noses clean until the next election, it would destroy us,"
he said.

MEMBERS OF THE GADFLY CLUB

Jeffrey Titford: MEP. Family business of funeral homes. Great-great grandfather
was said to have buried Wellington

Piers Merchant: Chief executive. Former Conservative MP, left Parliament after
an alleged affair with his researcher

Robert Kilroy Silk: MEP. In January he was sacked by the BBC for saying Arabs
were "suicide bombers, limb amputators, women repressors"

Godfrey Bloom: MEP. Was given a place on Women's Rights Committee on his first
day in Strasbourg. Said women didn't "clean behind the fridge enough"

Roger Knapman: Party leader. Tory MP for Stroud for ten years until Labour
landslide of 1997


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               32 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 19, 2004, Thursday

Renegade Tory may embarrass Howard

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 290 words


CONSERVATIVE hopes of avoiding embarrassment in the forthcoming Hartlepool
by-election were damaged yesterday by the news that their candidate at the 2001
general election might stand as an independent.

With the United Kingdom Independence Party threatening to eat into the Tory
vote, the emergence of an independent Conservative would harm Michael Howard's
chances of a respectable showing.

But Gus Robinson, a businessman who finished second to Peter Mandelson in 2001,
said he might stand.

The Liberal Democrats, whose candidate is Jody Dunn, are the biggest threat to
Labour in the normally safe seat, although there appears to be quiet optimism in
senior Labour circles that the seat can be held.

But the Tories, who have yet to select a candidate, know that anything worse
than third place would be portrayed as humiliation.

The date for the election has not yet been set, but top Labour strategists are
pushing for it to be held at the end of the Conservative conference in October
in the hope of undermining any advance Mr Howard makes that week.

Mr Robinson, 55, said he felt he would be able to do a "first-class job for the
town" whatever banner he fought under. "As regards the Conservatives there has
been no approach made to me," he said.

Mr Robinson said he had not had "a lot of contact with the local Conservative
association in Hartlepool or Conservative Central Office". He will wait to see
who the Tories pick before deciding whether to stand as an independent.

Labour, the Lib Dems and the UK Independence Party selected their candidates two
weeks ago.

However, a Conservative Central Office spokesman said: "We are still
interviewing.

We have not selected our candidate yet."


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               33 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 18, 2004

Iraq given a low priority by voters

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words


The average voter does not share the keen interest in Iraq of the political and
media classes, according to the results of this month's Guardian/ ICM opinion
poll.

The survey shows that voters, including Labour supporters, rank Iraq last out of
a list of 10 issues that they consider to be most important when deciding how
they will cast their vote in the next general election. Only 12% say it is a
crucial issue for them in deciding who to support.

Equally, the voters do not appear to share Westminster's preoccupation with the
European Union, and rank it only eighth out of 10

Conservative voters do regard the future of the EU as a more important question
to them than Labour voters, but it does not dominate their thinking about
politics and they still rank it only sixth in their list of concerns.

The finding may give a jolt to those senior figures in the Tory party who regard
a major crusade over changes to the EU constitution as the issue on which they
can make the most progress at the next election.

Instead, the average voter overwhelmingly regards the state of the health
service as the most influential factor in his or her decision, followed by
education and law and order.

The polling evidence that Iraq fails to excite the voters may explain why
Labour's poll position has remained buoyant over the past year despite the
sharply divisive disputes within the cabinet and party over conduct of the war.

This month's figures on voting intentions continue that trend, with Labour - on
36% - recovering from the hammering it took in the June European elections, but
its overall lead reduced from five points to three points as the Tories enjoy a
slightly better month.

The August poll shows the Conservatives up three points to 33%, mainly at the
expense of the Liberal Democrats and the minor parties who have faded from
public view after the European elections and subsequent byelections.

The share of the vote for the "other parties" has fallen from 13% in June to 9%
this month, with Ukip the biggest casualties. Its share of the vote is down from
4% in the June Guardian/ICM poll to less than 1% this month.

When voters are asked what they consider to be the most important issues when
deciding their party preference, their answers reveal an inter esting profile of
concerns. They were asked by ICM to name "two or three" that they considered the
most important, so the percentages add up to far more than 100.

For all voters the health ser vice - at 59% - dominates their concerns followed
some way behind by education, on 42%, and then law and order on 35%.

The indication is that if the parties want to motivate peo ple to vote in the
next election they should concentrate on talking about public services and
crime.

The traditional issues of the economy and government taxation and spending
policies come next in their concerns, followed by the issue of asylum seekers,
named by 20% of all voters.

Labour voters appear to be more interested in jobs than Tories or Liberal
Democrats and they rank asylum, the EU and Iraq as the least important of their
concerns.

Liberal Democrat voters rank the EU higher than other voters, but other polling
data shows that this does not necessarily mean they share the party's
pro-European outlook. They also rank Iraq higher than other voters in their
concerns.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,005 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between August 13 - 15. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               34 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 17, 2004, Tuesday

Any Tories for Hartlepool?

BYLINE: By CELIA WALDEN

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 130 words

On Saturday I reported that Conservative conference organisers were panicking
about the prospect of Labour calling the Hartlepool by-election to coincide with
the annual gathering of the Tory faithful in Bournemouth. However, Spy hears
that the impending contest - caused by Peter Mandelson's appointment as a
European Commissioner - is not being taken as seriously as it should be by the
Tory machine.

"The Lib Dems, Labour and even UKIP have already selected candidates," says one
Conservative activist, "but we don't have anyone in place. It's as if we've
decided not to bother after the recent disasters in Birmingham and Leicester.
Before those by-elections, we were bombarded with demands to go and campaign.
But no one's heard a squeak from anyone about Hartlepool."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               35 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                August 15, 2004

Tough on crime? You should hear Robocop, MrBlair

BYLINE: HARRY BLACKWOOD

SECTION: NE2; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 942 words


WHEN Tory leaders speak out on crime and punishment they are more often than not
condemned by the lily-livered do-gooders in the Labour Party and their friends
in the Leftwing-Press.

But Michael Howard's blistering speech in Middlesbrough this week seemed to go
down quite well.

That's because the Tory leader chose to share his platform with the town's
mayor, Ray Mallon.

The canny Howard knew that no matter how tough his message, it would be nothing
compared with what the former Robocop would have to say.

Mallon didn't disappoint.

While Howard was pledging an end to needless police paperwork, Mallon was urging
officers to kick down villains' doors and drag them screaming from their beds.

As Howard promised to flood the streets with more police officers, Mallon was
calling on the ones we already have to do whatever it takes to arrest people.
Forget human rights, forget civil liberties, just nick as many criminals as you
can fit in the back of your police van was his animated tirade against political
correctness and Home Office guidelines.

Mallon's tough speech may not have gone down well with everyone-but Howard was
beaming.

Despite pledges of draconian policies to deal with crime, an end to the
early-release scheme and a promise to build more jails and fill them with more
prisoners, his message seemed measured and statesmanlike compared with Mallon's
uncompromising rant.

And that, of course, is just what he wanted.

As civil liberty groups condemned Mallon's speech and the Chief Constable of
Cleveland and chairman of the Police Authority swiftly backtracked from the
mayor's vision of zerotolerance policing, the Leader of the Opposition came up
smelling of roses.

Mallon got the flak. Howard got the political brownie points and the public
support.

ut I sense the fun is only just beginning. With an election looming, Labour will
be desperate to get across a tough message on crime.

The question is: How tough? As tough as Howard?

As tough as Mallon?

Unthinkable? Maybe not.

THERE is a national shortage of nurses, so why is it essential for a cancer
nurse to have a degree? An advert for a Macmillan nurse in this region insists:
'Possession of, or working towards, a degree is essential'.

I'd have thought the right experience, a compassionate and caring nature and the
ability to do a demanding and almost thankless job were far more important than
a piece of paper that allegedly defines academic excellence.

UNEMPLOYMENT in the North East rose by more than five per cent from April to
June. It's just another example of how the region is getting a raw deal from
this Government.

As the figures were published, Blyth Valley Labour MP Ronnie Campbell was
rallying the troops over suggestions that a newly formed independent party could
take seats from Labour should we have a regional assembly.

He tells us: 'Labour has always had the people of the North East at heart.'

Does anyone still believe such patronising drivel?

CALL me a cynic if you like, but I'm very suspicious of an announcement that the
date of the Electoral Commission report on postal voting has been brought
forward from September 13 to August 27.

Postal voting was, of course, a disaster in the North East and many people are
expecting the Government to be hammered in the report. Could that be why the
release date has been changed from a rather ordinary Monday to the Friday before
a bank holiday weekend?

Over-sexed,over-eagerand over 40

A RECENT survey shows a shocking rise in the number of people being treated for
sexually transmitted diseases.

Figures in the North East rose by twice the national average. But the most
worrying statistic is that most of those being treated in our region are not
carefree, sexually active teenagers but middle-aged people. Experts say the rise
is because more adults are dating again after the break-up of marriages and
long-term relationships. They reckon the over-40s are not as aware of the need
for condoms as teenagers.

What rubbish. Isn't it just a case of men and women behaving badly?

VOTERS in the forthcoming Hartlepool by-election may wonder, as I do, what the
UK Independence Party candidate Stephen Allison actually stands for. I ask
because of the 44-year-old management consultant's somewhat chequered political
past.

Until recently he was an independent local councillor.

At the last election he acted as agent for Tory candidate Gus Robinson.

Before that he was, for many years, a member of the Labour Party. But that's not
all. I hear that Mr Allison's UKIP pedigree is flimsy and somewhat recent . . .
he only joined the party last Friday.

Now show us there's no place like home, lads

BUBBLY TV stars Ant and Dec were back in their native North East last week to
perform the official opening of Newcastle Airport's Pounds 7million terminal
extension.

The extension has been built to cater for the huge increase in passenger
numbers. I'm told you can travel almost anywhere in the world from Newcastle ...
including London.

I mention this because the Declan Donnelly half of the comedy duo told the 200
guests at the opening how he misses the North East.

'I miss everything the social life, going out on the town,' said Dec.

'Nothing will ever come close to your hometown. London is great but it's never
my home.' If Mr Donnelly and his mate miss the North East so much why don't they
move back up here? With a cracking new airport extension and plenty of flights
to whisk them to London in less than an hour, there is no excuse. So lads, what
are you waiting for?

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               36 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                August 15, 2004

MEPS TO QUIZ EX-MINISTER ABOUT HIS FINANCES AND FITNESS FOR OFFICE; MANDELSON
FACES A TOUGH GRILLING OVER HIS NEW EURO POST

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 682 words


PETER Mandelson will face a tough investigation by MEPs before he can take up
his controversial new post as Euro Commissioner next month.

The disgraced former Cabinet Minister will face a barrage of difficult questions
about his financial affairs and his fitness for office from Tory and UK
Independence Party MEPs when the European Parliament meets to approve the new
Commission.

Mr Mandelson and the other 23 Euro Commissioners will have to answer searching
questions from MEPs during hearings in Brussels.

The MP, who has languished on the backbenches since he was forced to resign for
a second time from the Government in 2001, was appointed as the new European
Trade Commissioner last Thursday.

But concerns over Mr Mandelson's poor judgment and involvement in two
parliamentary scandals, have aroused much criticism over the Prime Minister's
decision to nominate his close friend and confidant as Britain's representative
in Europe.

If Euro MPs decide that he is not fit to take on the GBP 163,000-a-year post,
they can vote to dismiss the entire Commission before they take up their jobs in
November.

Although this is unlikely, Mr Mandelson will face some embarrassing questions
about the reasons why he was forced to resign as both Trade and Industry
Secretary and Northern Ireland Secretary.

Jonathan Evans, leader of the Tory MEPs in Brussels, said: "We will be
questioning Peter Mandelson very carefully over his appointment and putting him
under a lot of scrutiny.

"He has already resigned twice from the British government, so why is he
considered fit to hold a post in Europe? Peter Mandelson is not the right man
for this job. He doesn't care about British interest, his only interest is in
himself and his career."

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said: "We shall certainly be there in force at the
hearings next month but it's a pity that we can't pick and choose our
commissioners individually.

"As it is, there will be a lot of questions about Mandelson's suitability for
office." Mr Farage, who is a member of the European Parliament's international
trade committee which will scrutinise Mr Mandelson's work during his term in
office, added: "This is the most powerful job that Peter Mandelson could have
got in the EU.

"National governments have no say over trade negotiations, such as those with
the World Trade Organisation, while Mandelson will be there representing the
entire EU.

"Although he was Trade and Industry Secretary, what does he know about world
trade? Does he have any relevant business experience? The answer is 'no'."

Although the appointment was hailed last week as a remarkable comeback for the
Hartlepool MP, many critics, including some in the Cabinet, have argued that Mr
Mandelson is not fit for public office following his involvement in two
parliamentary scandals. Mr Mandelson first resigned from the Cabinet in December
1998 after revelations that he had taken an undeclared loan of GBP 373,000 from
millionaire Labour donor and MP Geoffrey Robinson to buy his house in London's
Notting Hill.

The debt was not disclosed even when the Department for Trade and Industry
conducted an investigation into Mr Robinson's business affairs.

Just over two years later, after being brought back into the Cabinet as Northern
Ireland Secretary, he was forced out again over claims that he intervened in a
wrangle over a passport for a billionaire Indian businessman, although an
inquiry subsequently cleared him of any wrongdoing.

Mr Mandelson will be one of 24 EU commissioners working for a fixed five-year
term with new Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso.

He will give up his parliamentary seat and move to Brussels in the autumn and
serve as the EU's chief negotiator in stalled talks at the World Trade
Organisation to free up trade with developing nations.

Mr Mandelson, whose role will also put him at the centre of the euro debate,
will be rewarded with a GBP 75,000 chauffeur-driven car, a GBP 24,000a-year
housekeeping allowance and a GBP 7,000 entertaining budget, on top of his
salary.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               37 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 15, 2004, Sunday

Silk cut

BYLINE: By Tim Walker

SECTION: News; Mandrake; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 125 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK never had any problems silencing people he considered boring
on his eponymous BBC1 show. Oh that it were as easy with his lesser known UK
Independence Party colleagues in the European Parliament. The latest complaint
from UKIP's moaning minnies is that while other candidates were asked to
underwrite the costs of the recent European election campaign, Kilroy was not.

"I made absolutely clear when I joined the party that I did not want to give
them any money, as I didn't want it to look like I was trying to buy a seat,"
Kilroy tells Mandrake from his pounds 2 million bolthole near Marbella. "I am
sorry, but I am different. Those were the terms on which I joined the party and
no one has ever disputed them to my face."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               38 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 14, 2004

Dame Wells

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 971 words


Greetings all, and the warmest of Somerset welcomes this fine morning from your
whilom companion Dame Wells, whose recipe for Somerset frumenty, given in one of
Smallweed's absences two years ago, is still spoken of by Guardian readers -
mainly, I'm told, to their doctors. Down here in Huish Episcopi, folk still talk
of the day. . .

Concerned (Evercreech) writes : What have you done with Smallweed?

Dame Wells replies with a benevolent leer : Why, Lor' bless you and keep you and
spare you from any inconvenience, such as, heaven forfend, the sudden appearance
of Jeremy Clarkson bowling along in a sports car as you make your way down the
A303. Smallweed is lying down. He was seen this very morn by a warlock from
Porlock, who says he is suffering from post-traumatic trauma, a beast of which
simple old dames like me know neither the hair nor the hide. It seems this was
brought on by all the letters the postie brought him after he set out his plans
for his London Isn't Britain party, foretelling that one day soon it would win
such a large congregation that its meetings would have to be held at the Albert
Hall, a fine great building in London. Why (readers wrote), that's ridiculous. A
London Isn't Britain party, holding its meetings in London? Smallweed has asked
me to say that this was what old stagers like him and me call a

joke.

In the meantime, he has given space for a column written among our rolling
English acres down here in Cheddon Fitzpaine, and among the rolling English
over-imbibers of cider who nestle in every valley, chine, chasm, crevice,
crevasse, dune and minor declivity hereabouts.

* I shall start with our famous Somerset pixies, whose sudden appearances in the
lanes around Nempnett Thrubwell always prompt me to wonder whether Tony Blair's
grip on his party might not now be in serious jeopardy if only Robin Cook looked
like Bill Murray. What we can't understand round here is why, when he has the
likes of Minehead and Weston to choose from, he goes and decides to take his
holiday in some God-forsaken village called Italy. As a chap from Knapp said to
me over a spritzer in the Sven and Chickens on Wednesday night: I can just about
see why Blair wanted to go into Iraq, and I don't deny there's a case to be made
for foundation hospitals and even at a pinch for the PFI, but what I can't
understand is why any man with the tiniest tinge of good taste should choose of
his own accord to spend his spare time with a man like Berlusconi. Down here in
Farrington Gurney, my interlocutor added, we have a term for people like that.
Putting his mouth unpleasantly close to my head, he muttered the word in my ear.
It brought a maidenly blush to my russet cheeks, I can tell you.

* And now for a cure for warts. Rub them with the inside of a broad bean pod -
you'll find plenty in the Tesco at Chard - which you then must bury deep in your
garden; as the pod rots, they say, so will the wart. If you get a thorn in your
finger, slap on a slice of snake skin. Cramp is treated by rubbing the skins of
eels round the arms, sprains are healed with comfrey, and rickets may be
corrected by rubbing them with a snail. A good cure for piles is to carry a
conker around in your pocket. But do nothing about an itching bottom: it's
merely a sign that the price of butter will shortly rise. We have many such
sayings in Somerset. Dang me if they baint included in a book called The
Folklore of Somerset, by Kingsley Palmer, published in 1976 by Batsford, from
which you will also learn not to cut your nails on a Friday.

* Should you ride all day from Clevedon to Cricket St Thomas, or perchance from
Shepton Beauchamp to Street, you will no doubt glimpse the odd rustic with a
scythe and a crook and a champflower between his teeth gazing hopefully up the
road. Such folk are even sometimes sighted, they say, between junctions 20 and
26 along the M4. Do not ask them why there are there; they will never tell you.
But down here in Edington Burtle we know their secret. They are waiting for the
Duke of Monmouth to claim his throne. The stuffy old history books on the shelf
of Hillfarrance library will tell you that Monmouth died at the hands of the
executioner after his rebellion in 1685. But it's long been believed in Somerset
that the man who had his head chopped off by Jack Ketch (at the sixth or seventh
attempt, according to Lord Macaulay) was not Monmouth at all, but one who
closely resembled him and who was ready to give his life for his master. These
folk on the sides of our roads believe he lives even now and will shortly appear
among us, at which point they will doff their caps, take the champflowers out of
their mouths, and cry with one voice: "About bloody time, too."

Which reminds me that it's high time for Dame Wells to treat you to the secrets
of her recipe, famed countywide, for Wincanton tortellini. Take one faded Ukip
poster, bearing a lithographic impression of the face of R Kilroy-Silk, and
marinate it for a day and a half in a bucket of Benger's Food. Stir lightly with
the inside of a bean pod . . .

Sam Wedell (Meadswell) writes : I have to protest at this travesty. I do not
believe this person with her remedies for piles and her beanpods and her
passages from Macaulay is a country woman at all. Behind the soi-disant russet
cheeks of Dame Wells there lurks, I assert, the pasty-faced spectre of
Smallweed, of whom Dame Wells, I further aver, is a shameless anagram.

Dame Wells protests, the colour rising erotically to her cheeks and making them
an eerie shade of vermilion : Aver away, you flea-ridden varmint. You shall only
bring shame on yourself. Why, the whole world knows we're honest folk down here
in Somerset. You must surely have heard the famous expression: "Somerset
levels".

damewells@aol.com


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 14, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Dame Wells

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 971 words


Greetings all, and the warmest of Somerset welcomes this fine morning from your
whilom companion Dame Wells, whose recipe for Somerset frumenty, given in one of
Smallweed's absences two years ago, is still spoken of by Guardian readers -
mainly, I'm told, to their doctors. Down here in Huish Episcopi, folk still talk
of the day. . .

Concerned (Evercreech) writes : What have you done with Smallweed?

Dame Wells replies with a benevolent leer : Why, Lor' bless you and keep you and
spare you from any inconvenience, such as, heaven forfend, the sudden appearance
of Jeremy Clarkson bowling along in a sports car as you make your way down the
A303. Smallweed is lying down. He was seen this very morn by a warlock from
Porlock, who says he is suffering from post-traumatic trauma, a beast of which
simple old dames like me know neither the hair nor the hide. It seems this was
brought on by all the letters the postie brought him after he set out his plans
for his London Isn't Britain party, foretelling that one day soon it would win
such a large congregation that its meetings would have to be held at the Albert
Hall, a fine great building in London. Why (readers wrote), that's ridiculous. A
London Isn't Britain party, holding its meetings in London? Smallweed has asked
me to say that this was what old stagers like him and me call a

joke.

In the meantime, he has given space for a column written among our rolling
English acres down here in Cheddon Fitzpaine, and among the rolling English
over-imbibers of cider who nestle in every valley, chine, chasm, crevice,
crevasse, dune and minor declivity hereabouts.

* I shall start with our famous Somerset pixies, whose sudden appearances in the
lanes around Nempnett Thrubwell always prompt me to wonder whether Tony Blair's
grip on his party might not now be in serious jeopardy if only Robin Cook looked
like Bill Murray. What we can't understand round here is why, when he has the
likes of Minehead and Weston to choose from, he goes and decides to take his
holiday in some God-forsaken village called Italy. As a chap from Knapp said to
me over a spritzer in the Sven and Chickens on Wednesday night: I can just about
see why Blair wanted to go into Iraq, and I don't deny there's a case to be made
for foundation hospitals and even at a pinch for the PFI, but what I can't
understand is why any man with the tiniest tinge of good taste should choose of
his own accord to spend his spare time with a man like Berlusconi. Down here in
Farrington Gurney, my interlocutor added, we have a term for people like that.
Putting his mouth unpleasantly close to my head, he muttered the word in my ear.
It brought a maidenly blush to my russet cheeks, I can tell you.

* And now for a cure for warts. Rub them with the inside of a broad bean pod -
you'll find plenty in the Tesco at Chard - which you then must bury deep in your
garden; as the pod rots, they say, so will the wart. If you get a thorn in your
finger, slap on a slice of snake skin. Cramp is treated by rubbing the skins of
eels round the arms, sprains are healed with comfrey, and rickets may be
corrected by rubbing them with a snail. A good cure for piles is to carry a
conker around in your pocket. But do nothing about an itching bottom: it's
merely a sign that the price of butter will shortly rise. We have many such
sayings in Somerset. Dang me if they baint included in a book called The
Folklore of Somerset, by Kingsley Palmer, published in 1976 by Batsford, from
which you will also learn not to cut your nails on a Friday.

* Should you ride all day from Clevedon to Cricket St Thomas, or perchance from
Shepton Beauchamp to Street, you will no doubt glimpse the odd rustic with a
scythe and a crook and a champflower between his teeth gazing hopefully up the
road. Such folk are even sometimes sighted, they say, between junctions 20 and
26 along the M4. Do not ask them why there are there; they will never tell you.
But down here in Edington Burtle we know their secret. They are waiting for the
Duke of Monmouth to claim his throne. The stuffy old history books on the shelf
of Hillfarrance library will tell you that Monmouth died at the hands of the
executioner after his rebellion in 1685. But it's long been believed in Somerset
that the man who had his head chopped off by Jack Ketch (at the sixth or seventh
attempt, according to Lord Macaulay) was not Monmouth at all, but one who
closely resembled him and who was ready to give his life for his master. These
folk on the sides of our roads believe he lives even now and will shortly appear
among us, at which point they will doff their caps, take the champflowers out of
their mouths, and cry with one voice: "About bloody time, too."

Which reminds me that it's high time for Dame Wells to treat you to the secrets
of her recipe, famed countywide, for Wincanton tortellini. Take one faded Ukip
poster, bearing a lithographic impression of the face of R Kilroy-Silk, and
marinate it for a day and a half in a bucket of Benger's Food. Stir lightly with
the inside of a bean pod . . .

Sam Wedell (Meadswell) writes : I have to protest at this travesty. I do not
believe this person with her remedies for piles and her beanpods and her
passages from Macaulay is a country woman at all. Behind the soi-disant russet
cheeks of Dame Wells there lurks, I assert, the pasty-faced spectre of
Smallweed, of whom Dame Wells, I further aver, is a shameless anagram.

Dame Wells protests, the colour rising erotically to her cheeks and making them
an eerie shade of vermilion : Aver away, you flea-ridden varmint. You shall only
bring shame on yourself. Why, the whole world knows we're honest folk down here
in Somerset. You must surely have heard the famous expression: "Somerset
levels".

damewells@aol.com


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               40 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 14, 2004, Saturday

Mrs Bloom comes clean on her fridge

BYLINE: Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 1208 words


Andrew Norfolk reveals home truths of MEP who criticised sexual equality

There is no escaping the fridge. It may seek anonymity behind a wood-veneer
panel in Katie Bloom's country-style fitted kitchen, but for Britain's most
famous domestic appliance there is no hiding place.

During the past month, to its mistress's intense frustration, her elderly Neff
refrigerator has somehow become a pan-European symbol of women's inequality at
home and in the workplace. And it is all her husband's fault.

As a new UK Independence Party MEP, Godfrey Bloom triggered howls of outrage on
July 20 when, after his appointment to the European Parliament's women's rights
committee, he voiced his opinion that the fairer sex "just don't clean behind
the fridge enough".

His mission, the 54-year-old former fund manager said, was "to represent
Yorkshire women, who always have dinner on the table when you get home".

In her first interview since the sexism storm erupted, Mrs Bloom readily
acknowledged this week that no one in their right mind would ever bother to
clean the back of their refrigerator.

Which is not to say that The Times did not seek a full inspection of the
tantalising gap behind the Bloom appliance.

It took quite a bit of shifting to manoeuvre the white, German-made contraption
out of its snug home but, eventually, in a dazzling coup for investigative
journalism, the promised land was glimpsed.

It proved something of an anti-climax. One small cobweb was visible, plus a few
pieces of fluff. Otherwise it was, well, pretty unremarkable.

Under harsh questioning, Mrs Bloom confessed: after July 20, for the first time
in years, she got down on her hands and knees and cleaned behind her fridge. She
would like it to be known that she has no intention of repeating the ghastly
exercise. She also admitted that she did it only in case a journalist came
calling.

The sneaky cleaning project was not the only attempt at disguise during our
visit to the Blooms' ivy-clad cottage in the tiny East Yorkshire village of
Wressle.

Elegant in a white blouse and beige skirt, the lady of the house initially came
across as the epitome of a domestic goddess, the working woman -she is one of
Britain's leading equine physiotherapists -who maintains a spotless home and a
table overflowing with home-cooked delights.

Appearances, it soon became clear, were a tad deceptive. The first clue was the
milk that Mrs Bloom heated on the hob to accompany a cafetiere of coffee. She
spilt it liberally when she tried to pour it from the pan into a pretty silver
jug, then again when she poured from the jug into delicate china cups, which, it
turned out, did not match the saucers.

A few minutes later, the hostess's claim that she often cooks "cakes and buns"
prompted a disbelieving explosion of mirth from her friend, Jane Collins,
forcing the sheepish Mrs Bloom to confess that although she did once make a
Christmas cake, it was a bit of a disaster, while last year's mince pies "could
have been used as bullets".

The definitive proof that all was not as it seemed was provided by Classic
Collection, a magnificent five-year-old dark bay show hunter, for which Mrs
Bloom cares in her job. He was clearly unnerved at the sight of Mrs Bloom in the
stables, which seemed odd until Mrs Collins, who manages the yard, helpfully
suggested that it may have been the first time he had seen his owner in a skirt.

When the conversation relaxed, the truth became clear. Yes, the kitchen appears
clean, but please don't look too closely. The Blooms' cleaner retired at Easter
and, as a tentative experiment, the couple are trying to manage without one.

As for the cooking, Mrs Bloom's friends snorted with derision when they heard
Godfrey's paean to the Yorkshire lasses who always have a hearty meal ready for
the man of the house.

They know that in the Bloom household it is the wife who tends to arrive late
from a hard day's labour to find an apron-clad hubby ready to dish up the food.
His roast beef and Yorkshire pudding has legions of admirers.

Mr Bloom's Strasbourg comments -he insists that they were a joke -about women
and fridges had been swiftly followed by his bald declaration that "no self-
respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a
lady of child-bearing age". This was no joke, but back in Yorkshire Mrs Bloom
and her fridge had spent the fateful day in blissful ignorance of the storm
erupting over her husband's words.

After work she visited her mother in hospital before returning home to find
journalists camped in the driveway and an answering machine jammed with phone
messages from reporters requesting an interview.

The story made headlines across Europe. Mr Bloom was castigated by Allessandra
Mussolini, the dictator's grand-daughter, branded "a terrify-ing neanderthal" by
Glenys Kinnock and condemned by British commentators as a "desperate dinosaur",
a "sexist monster" and a dangerous, bowler-hatted buffoon.

Unnerved to discover that her marriage had suddenly been declared a suitable
subject for the pity and ridicule of complete strangers, Mrs Bloom initially
went to ground. She pretended to be the cleaner whenever she went to the door
and was uncontactable by phone for several days, even by the chastened Mr Bloom,
who admitted that "Mrs B", as he always refers to his wife, was "rather cross
that I've involved her in all this fuss".

When she bravely raised her head above the parapet this week, Mrs Bloom was less
than convincing as a domestic superwoman. There was no denying, however, that
she works extremely hard running a successful private practice as a
physiotherapist treating humans and horses.

She has treated some of the country's equine superstars, from racehorses to
four- footed members of the British showjumping team, and when she is not
working with horses, Mrs Bloom relaxes by riding or showing them. She has won
hundreds of awards.

She is a keen huntswoman and, last season, embarked on a daredevil sporting tour
of Britain's hunts, riding and jumping side-saddle. This is the world of a woman
who does not have a great deal of spare time for what she considers to be life's
trivialities, among which she includes domestic chores and the entire concept of
political correctness.

Two stuffed foxes, one dressed in full hunting regalia, are on prominent display
in the house and a visitor to the downstairs lavatory is greeted by -among other
unprintable sights -a cartoon poking fun at "poofs".

When it comes to her husband's infamous comments, Mrs Bloom wants the world to
appreciate that some journalists and politicians do not have a sense of humour
and that Godfrey was deadly serious and absolutely correct in his views about
the undesirability for any small business of employing a woman who might be
about to fall pregnant.

Her huband, to whom she has been married for 18 years, may come fifth in her
list of priorities behind Bill, the family collie, and her three favourite
horses, but Mrs Bloom firmly believes that -when he is not making naive jokes
-Godfrey's is the voice of old-fashioned common sense.

www.timesonline.co.uk/foodandwine Gordon Ramsay's recipes


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               41 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 13, 2004

I vow to thee my country - but not without question

BYLINE: David Ward

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 404 words


Thaxted is a wonderful tune written by Gustav Holst, but a Manchester bishop has
denounced the words that go with it.

The second verse of I Vow To Thee My Country, with its emphasis on the kingdom
of heaven, is probably acceptable. But the first verse appeared to call for
"unquestioning allegiance to what a country does, whether right or wrong", the
Right Rev Stephen Lowe, the suffragan Bishop of Hulme in Manchester, said
yesterday. He said the unquestioning patriotism was "heretical" and no longer
welcome.

It was even more unacceptable at a time when many people were opposed to the
Iraq war.

I vow to thee, my country - all earthly things above -

Entire and whole and perfect, the service of my love;

The love that asks no question, the love that stands the test,

That lays upon the altar the dearest and the best;

The love that never falters, the love that pays the price,

The love that makes undaunted the final sacrifice

The lyrics were written by Cecil Spring Rice in 1918, the year the first world
war ended.

Bishop Lowe accepts that the hymn dates from a significant period in history but
will not sing it, despite the fine melody.

In Crux, the magazine of the Manchester diocese, he says: "A Christian's
ultimate responsibility and accountability is to God as revealed by Jesus and
the Holy Spirit."

He writes of his unease about the "new passion for Engerland (sic)" that emerged
on St George's day and during football's Euro 2004. He attacks US imperialism
and warns of the rise of the UK Independence party, before going on to reject
narrow nationalism and embrace the world. "I want 'Engerland' to win again one
day and to celebrate the victory for a couple of days maybe, even by waving a
flag.

"But any notion of national superiority or fierce independence while pouring
scorn on our neighbours is profoundly unchristian and wrong."

He is suspicious of "a white dominated simple world of Englishness where pounds
and not euros, gallons and not litres, reign supreme".

The hymn is not the only open to revisionist movements. The tone of the
Sal-vation Army favourite Onward Christian Soldiers is found embarrassingly
militaristic:

Like a mighty army moves the church of God;

Brothers, we are treading where the saints have trod.

We are not divided, all one body we,

One in hope and doctrine, one in charity .

Leader comment, page 25


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               42 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 13, 2004, Friday

LOVE OF COUNTRY CAN BE A FORCE FOR EVIL;
 WHEN POLITICIANS INVOKE PATRIOTISM, IT IS RARELY IN THE CONTEXT OF

BYLINE: TERENCE BLACKER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 879 words


There may well come a moment over the next 15 days when British hearts will
swell with pride and tears will prick the eyes as one of our representatives in
Greece stands victorious on a podium, the Union Jack fluttering high above. The
experts say that there is little chance of gold this time, but the rest of us
know that all it needs is for a few foreigners to under-perform and for Paula,
or Kelly, or some shooter or eventer to raise their game, and suddenly, briefly,
the Olympics will be a glorious celebration of our own patriotism.

Under these circumstances, it was tactless and ill-timed of a clergyman from
Manchester to have a pop at nationalism and even to compare it to the rise of
Nazism. The Bishop of Hulme, one of those C of E small-timers who jump up from
the substitute's bench and draw attention to themselves while the first-team
bishops are on holiday, has told his parishioners that the much-loved and
venerable hymn "I Vow to Thee, My Country" should be banned from churches.

The second verse, which saw heaven as another country whose fortress is a
faithful heart and so on, was fine, he said; it was the first verse that posed
the problem. Those who sang it were professing that their love for their own
country was not only "all earthly things above, entire and whole and perfect"
but was, more significantly, "the love that asks no questions, the love that
stands the test".

According to the bishop, a patriotism that puts an unquestioning national
loyalty before all other religious or moral considerations is not only heretical
but panders to a new mood of nationalism and xenophobia. For a nation to suggest
that its culture was somehow superior to others was dangerous, he said.

It is tempting to dismiss these remarks, and the fuss that has surrounded them,
as little more than silly-season nonsense. Hymns, after all, are not there to be
taken seriously; anyone who has attempted to obviate the dreariness of a church
service by actually paying attention to what is being droned by the rest of the
congregation will know that all sorts of imperialist tosh and sonorous gibberish
are to be found in Hymns Ancient and Modern. For most people, singing "I Vow to
Thee, My Country" to a rather good tune by Holst is an Anglican version of
meditation: it purifies the mind by emptying it of any kind of thought or
analysis.

But in fact the bishop is making a sensible and apposite point. If a state
religion seriously proposes that love of country is more important than faith,
love, forgiveness or any other spiritual virtue, and that furthermore it should
ask no questions, it sacrifices any kind of moral or intellectual authority. It
is placing a rather unnerving form of blinkered nationalism at the heart of
religious faith.

The nature of patriotism has changed since 1918 when Sir Cecil Spring- Rice
wrote the words to the famous hymn. When, a decade or so ago, football fans
adopted the flag of St George, the love of country that they represented was
based on an ignorant distrust of foreigners, on aggression, on a leering,
truculent yet fearful sense of the English national character.

It is no coincidence that this rise of patriotic pride, the St George effect,
has become associated with the nasty intolerance of the British National Party,
the little-England paranoia of UKIP. These days, when politicians invoke
patriotism, it is rarely in the context of generosity or inclusiveness, almost
always an indicator that another small loss of liberty is on its way.

Our allies in the Coalition of the Willing have led the way in politicising love
of country and annexing it to the cause of intolerance. It is the US Patriot Act
which has allowed the arrest and detention of citizens without recourse to a
lawyer, given the state the right to scrutinise an individual's book-buying or
library-borrowing habits, and banned any kind of open protest at political
rallies.

In the same spirit, our own Home Secretary can boast that he is not deporting
detainees out of concern that they will be tortured abroad while, on the same
day, welcoming the Court of Appeal ruling that evidence acquired by foreign
torturers will now be acceptable in a British court.

When patriotism is invoked to justify this kind of behaviour, then it has
acquired layers of secondary meaning which are mostly to do with an over-zealous
and defensive intolerance of foreigners. Inevitably, it will continue to play a
part in our political lives and elsewhere - sport would be exceedingly dull
without it.

But anyone dealing with larger matters of morality, particularly if they are
speaking on behalf of an established religion, should see patriotism, in its
modern guise at least, as a force for evil, not good. Instead of leaning on the
outmoded words of Victorian and Edwardian poets, they might usefully remember
Henry David Thoreau's conclusion to his book Walden:

"Some can be patriotic who have no self-respect, and sacrifice the greater to
the less. They love the soil which makes their graves, but have no sympathy with
the spirit which may still animate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in their
heads."

Put those words to a tune by Holst, and I shall happily sing along to them.

terblacker@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               43 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 12, 2004

Bishop bans the patriots' hymn for being racist

BYLINE: DUNCAN GARDHAM

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 584 words


IT HAS been a stirring and popular anthem ever since our soldiers sang it on
their return from the trenches after the First World War.

But a Church of England bishop has declared that the hymn I Vow To Thee My
Country is racist and banned it from his services.

The Right Reverend Stephen Lowe, Bishop of Hulme, Manchester, says the hymn
which was one of Princess Diana's favourites is 'heretical'.

The emotional words, written by Cecil Spring Rice in 1918, emphasise love of
country above material things.

In 1921, it was set to soaring music by Gustav Holst, originally composed for
the Planet Suite.

But, in a newsletter for the Manchester diocese, Bishop Lowe said the hymn
symbolises a ' frightening' aspect of nationalism.

He wrote: 'I will not sing the hymn, "I vow to thee my country all earthly
things above", despite the good tune.

'I think it is heretical because a Christian's ultimate responsibility and
accountability is to God. And this is where my unease is focused.' He added: 'I
see all humankind as my brothers and sisters. I want to enjoy and celebrate the
kaleidoscope of the world in which I live, not cut myself off from it 'Any
notion of national superiority or fierce independence, while pouring scorn on
our neighbours, is profoundly unChristian and wrong.'

Launching into a political tirade against the U. S . and British nationalism,
the bishop criticised Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's, and America's
'arrogance'.

His newsletter message went on to dismiss the UK Independence Party and added:
'The belief that we can survive economically and politically on our own, and
indeed that it is something to be proud of, is frankly foolish myth.

'Undergirding it, I suspect is a deep- seated fear of difference, a wish for a
white-dominated simple world of Englishness.' His attack on English nationalism,
he says, was prompted by the flags that swept the country for St George's Day
and Euro 2004 and by the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of D-Day.

But his dismissal of I Vow To Thee My Country will upset many who see it as an
important part of our heritage.

It is popularly sung as the second hymn after the marriage ceremony, because it
celebrates the gentleness of a faithful heart.

When it was sung at Princess Diana's wedding, she said it had 'always been a
favourite since her schooldays'. It was also played at her funeral.

The tune was adopted as the rugby anthem World In Union. And its patriotic
sentiments have led supporters of the war in Iraq to rewrite it in support of
the invasion.

Bishop Lowe said yesterday that he believes the hymn is 'dangerous'.

He added: 'My country, right or wrong, is not an appropriate sentiment for
Christians to uphold.' d.gardham@dailymail.co.uk

I Vow to Thee My Country

I vow to thee, my country, all earthly things above, Entire and whole and
perfect, the service of my love: The love that asks no question, the love that
stands the test, That lays upon the altar the dearest and the best; The love
that never falters, the love that pays the price, The love that makes undaunted
the final sacrifice.

And there's another country, I've heard of long ago, Most dear to them that love
her, most great to them that know; We may not count her armies, we may not see
her King; Her fortress is a faithful heart, her pride is suffering; And soul by
soul and silently her shining bounds increase, And her ways are ways of
gentleness and all her paths are peace.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               44 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 12, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 421 words


JOAN COLLINS, below, was unveiled as the latest celebrity supporter of the UK
Independence Party earlier this summer but Hickey learns the well-preserved
actress is already anxious to distance herself from the political rat race.
Joan, 71, appeared alongside Robert KilroySilk at a Ukip photocall in May and
was tipped to play an active role in campaigns, bullishly announcing that she
was "violently against adopting the European constitution".

However, it seems that party bosses will be disappointed, for Hickey learns the
ex-Dynasty star plans to steer clear of future Ukip events. "She gave her name
to their campaign but has no plans to take an active future role, " confirms a
well-placed source.

CHARLES KENNEDY'S Liberal Democrats are going to desperate lengths to persuade
the media to go to their annual conference in Bournemouth next month. They have
sent a letter to hacks informing them how they could save GBP 105 at the event,
the week before the Tory jamboree at the same venue. They urge the media to
pre-book phone lines and computer points for both events.

Their plaintive message is: "It would be cheaper to book a phone line/number for
two consecutive weeks. In a unique move, the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives
have set aside party rivalries to save journalists attending both conferences
the cost of booking telephone lines twice and paying double."

DESPERATE times at BBC Four. Presenter Kirsty Wark, below, has been using a
daily e-mail sent out by BBC2's Newsnight to viewers to plug a show she has made
for the littlewatched digital channel.

The Newsnight anchorwoman adds a quaint PS to the e-mail.

"I have just made a documentary series journeying North from Slovenia in the
Adriatic to Estonia in the Baltic for BBC Four, " reveals Wark. "In Tales From
Europe, I learned about their different cultures, history and rivalries." She
signs off with:

"It broadcasts in September."

The channel's handful of viewers will doubtless be grateful for the advance
notice.

WHEN Adam Guettel's "ethereal" songs are performed at Trafalgar Studios in
London's West End next month, audiences will witness one of the musical world's
greatest legacies.

For Guettel, whose numbers will be sung by Rebecca Thornhill in the Notes From
New York series, is grandson of Richard Rodgers, who co-wrote such classic
musicals as The Sound Of Music, Carousel and The King And I.

But Guettel, 39, is reluctant to encourage comparisons. "Our work is very
different, " he demurs.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               45 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 12, 2004

Where fortunes have changed

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 136 words


Now a safe Labour seat, Hartlepool's political history tracks Conservative
collapse. In 1959 the town elected a Tory MP and as late as 1983 the
Conservatives lost by only 3,000 votes. In 1992 the party took more than a third
of the vote; in 2001 just a fifth. Labour won easily with 22,506 votes - 59.1%
of the total, despite speculation that Peter Mandelson might struggle.

In the current byelection the Liberal Democrats - who came third in 2001 with
just 15% - have positioned themselves as challengers. They need a 22% swing to
take the seat from Labour, similar to their results in the recent Leicester and
Birmingham byelections. Ukip did well in the European elections, but without a
high-profile candidate will find it hard to compete against aggressive campaigns
from Labour and the Lib Dems.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               46 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 12, 2004

Hartlepool gears up for a bitter battle: Lib Dem byelection hopes are high in a
town accustomed to electoral upsets

BYLINE: Kirsty Scott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words


It has been something of a landmark week for Derek Malcolm. His first grandson
was born four days ago, and just before his beloved Hartlepool play Tranmere
Rovers he has come into town to see about changing his political allegiance.

The 47-year-old GMB shop steward is in the offices of Respect: The Unity
Coalition in Hartlepool, trying to establish whether its candidate John Bloom
offers an alternative to the Labour party Mr Malcolm says he can no longer vote
for.

Like the rest of Hartlepool, Mr Malcolm does not know when he will be going to
the polls, only that he will, after the sitting MP Peter Mandelson was
resurrected as a European commissioner.

Mr Mandelson leaves behind a 14,571 majority but enough lingering resentment
about New Labour to ensure that the coming byelection will be one of the hardest
fought and most bitter of recent years. The town is not unused to electoral
shocks, having chosen the 'Pool's monkey mascot, Stuart Drummond, as mayor in
2002.

"I think there is a sense of relief (Mandelson) is going," says Mr Malcolm. "He
was Tony's friend put into a nice safe seat. He was never from the town. He
doesn't know people in the town. He had his own interests at heart, not the
local interests, like the hospital closure."

Indeed, it is the threat hanging over the University Hospital of Hartlepool,
whose services are under review, that has already formed the centrepiece to a
campaign shaping up to be determinedly local. If it is not the hospital people
are talking about, it is the recent closure of four local post offices, the rise
in violent crime, or the implications of plans to scrap US navy "ghost ships" in
the town.

A few doors down, at the Liberal Democrat campaign offices, these are priority
issues for the candidate, Jody Dunn, the 35-year-old multilingual and
multi-tasking barrister and mother of four charged with trying to pull off
another byelection upset.

Even with no date set for the poll, there is a palpable sense of urgency in the
old bank building that has become the Lib Dems' HQ. Volunteers man long tables,
feverishly stuffing envelopes. Away from public view, a brightly coloured poster
celebrating Ms Dunn's prowess at judo has been stuck to a pillar: "We need an MP
who's a brown belt not a brown nose."

Dramatic

Party activist Ed Fordham first came to Hartlepool three days after the Brent
East byelection last year, "when the whispers were starting that Peter Mandelson
would go". He bristles at suggestions that the fact that Ms Dunn comes from the
far side of Darlington could count against her. She works in the local courts,
he says, and two days after selection she took a flat in the centre of
Hartlepool. "Her commitment to Hartlepool is total. She wasn't born here but 48%
of the town wasn't either."

And he thinks she can pull it off. "Hartlepool has voted against the Labour
party . . . there is no evidence that Hartlepool is a dominant Labour town."

In a back room the party's former health spokesman Evan Harris is more
circumspect," he says. "This is going to be extremely difficult but it is quite
clearly between the two of us. The Tories are out of it. There is no sign of the
Tories and there's no sign of Ukip . . . For Labour it is a pride thing and it
is going to be extremely close. If we win this it will be most dramatic."

Labour knows the stakes are high. Within hours of his selection, the party's new
candidate, Iain Wright, an affable 32-year-old local councillor, was out
campaigning. He could not be more different from his predecessor, a point
acknowledged by Mr Mandelson, who has called him a "genuine Hartlepool person".
Born and raised in the town, Mr Wright lives in with his wife Tiffiny and their
three children the Rift House ward he represents. Their fourth child is due in
November.

"I am not complacent at all," he said in a brief break from canvassing. "I'm
going to make sure that I convince people that voting Labour is the only
possible choice . . . I think Peter had done a lot for the town both as a local
MP and as a minister but I'm going to focus very much on local issues because
I'm a local lad."

He greatly resents the fact that his opponents are using the hospital issue.
"They're frightening local people," he said. "All my children have been born
there. My son was treated for meningitis there. I'm going to make sure it isn't
downgraded or moved out of town."

His ire is directed at the Lib Dems. The Tories have yet to pick a candidate.
Last night Ukip selected management consultant Stephen Allison, 44, as its
candidate.

Tony Rowsell, who runs a local music club, thinks Labour will hold the seat.
Just.

"I think it is going to be more of a fight than they have ever had in
Hartlepool," he said.

But at the offices of Respectparty workers are trying to persuade Derek Malcolm
that nothing can be taken for granted. "This is Hartlepool," activist Pauline
Cassim tells him. "We elected a monkey. Miracles do happen in this town."

guardian.co.uk/ politics


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               47 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 11, 2004, Wednesday

Euro-scepticism isn't the same as xenophobia

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 454 words

Denis MacShane is the minister of state for Europe at the Foreign Office. As
such, he is responsible for persuading the British public to vote in referendums
for the EU Constitution and for adoption of the euro as our national currency.
All the opinion polls suggest that the task is Herculean. Neither the turgid
ambivalence of the constitution nor the sluggish economic record of the euro
zone is calculated to impress an already wary electorate. So daunted by his
responsibilities does the minister appear that he has resorted to desperate
measures. In an interview with this newspaper, he tried to tax with xenophobia
those who query the wisdom of closer integration with the European Union.

It would be easy to dismiss this smear out of hand. However, there is enough
evidence of xenophobic attitudes towards the EU, whether hysteria over the
imminent invasion of Poles and Roma after enlargement or in some of the UK
Independence Party propaganda, to persuade people that Mr MacShane is right.
Those so inclined should look at our letter columns this week, where readers
have made eloquently clear the distinction between the political goal of
extending European authority over this country and hatred of foreigners. The
blanket phrase "anti-Europe" used by the minister on the BBC's Today programme
yesterday attempts to confuse one with the other.

In the broadcast, Mr MacShane accused "our anti-Europe press" of spreading myths
and lies and of demeaning discussion of an important issue. That is an
impertinent charge from a government that has sought to brush off the new
constitution by likening it to the rules of golf club (Jack Straw, Mr MacShane's
boss) or describing it as a tidying-up exercise (Peter Hain, when Downing
Street's envoy to the body that drafted the document). Labour in power has
followed its Conservative predecessors in seeking to conceal the true impact of
what it has approved in Brussels. As this newspaper has frequently pointed out,
the constitution agreed at the June summit and now awaiting ratification is a
major step towards deeper integration. It provides for an EU foreign minister,
criminal court, prosecutor and police force, removes the national veto in many
areas and gives treaty sanction to an outdated, over-regulated economic model.

Mr MacShane said yesterday that he wanted a "political ding-dong" on the basis
of facts. That we would welcome. However, it will not be possible as long as the
Government unfairly smears opponents of its ambitions in Europe as xenophobes,
while continuing to underplay the significance of what is at stake over the
constitution and membership of the euro zone. Such deviousness is an insult to
the electorate's intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               48 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 11, 2004

SHUNNING EU SUPERSTATE DOESN'T MAKE BRITS RACIST

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 651 words


EUROPE Minister Denis MacShane branded 29million Britons who oppose a European
superstate as racist. He said: "Euroscepticism is a misnomer. What we are
talking about is hatred of Europe. We have got a dark streak of xenophobia and
racism in our mentality." Most readers were outraged by his claims.

I AM one of the 29million Eurosceptics that Denis MacShane brands racist.

It's not that we don't trust foreigners -we don't trust anyone who has the same
single-minded beliefs as MacShane.

This jumped-up politician expects us to put total power into his hands and other
authority-mad politicians whether they are British or not.

However, he is now realising that the British public are not the pushovers he
would like us to be.

TERENCE ROBINSON Burnley

I THOUGHT we'd eradicated foot and mouth disease in this country but Denis
MacShane shows it's well and truly alive.

I object to being called a racist. The reason most people are against the
superstate has nothing to do with being racist.

It's about not wanting our country being run by faceless bureaucrats in corrupt
Brussels and having no say about it.

JOHN McCAFFERTY Glasgow

DENIS MACSHANE needs to get his facts right.

Being proud of our country's heritage, traditions and history does not make us
all racists.

We are just happy to be "British through and through" and that's the way we
would like things to stay.

GRAHAM DIXON Preston, Lancs

SO, Denis MacShane has played the race card because many Britons refuse to
support his idea of a European superstate.

Has he ever thought that the corruption endemic to the EU may have something to
do with this?

Not racism, simply common sense.

GAVIN UPEX Peterborough

WHAT tree did Denis MacShane fall out of? Just because we may be against the
European Constitution doesn't mean we hate foreigners.

This guy needs to get his act together.

ANGELA BOLTON Leeds

HOW dare Denis MacShane brand me racist and xenophobic because I am one of the
29million Brits who don't want to belong to a European superstate.

As a Christian, I worship alongside nationals from many countries. I object to a
superstate because the state of the EU economy would drag Britain down.

Our economy could not survive. I'll vote UKIP unless he resigns.

PETER O'SULLIVAN Darlington

THIS man should be forced to resign. I am a Labour voter who is very much
against the constitution, but I am by no means racist or hate European people.

I take all he says as an insult.

Sack him now because he is not doing the argument for the constitution any good
at all.

ANDY CLARK Crawley, West Sussex

HOW dare Denis MacShane make such a sweeping generalisation. All we're guilty of
is having pride in our own country and opposition to taking orders from
Brussels.

That's hardly racism!

Mr MacShane should remember he was put in his position to represent us, not
insult us.

LES WHITE York

THE Europe Minister is a typical politician who can only see one point of view.

His attacks on people who do not want to become part of a federal Europe are
unreasonable.

Over the last few years we have been Europe's boom country, why mend something
that is not broken.

BILL CLARKE Sholing, Hants

DENIS MACSHANE is a fool. We simply want to elect a government to make our laws
on crime, immigration and education without having to answer to Europe.

He should be mature enough to listen to different opinions and not react with
childish insults.

SHARON SAWYER Catford, SE London

HOW dare MacShane condemn us as racist.

Sweeping generalisations like this should not be made by someone in his
position.

The fact he has made them shows just how much contempt he has for voters in this
country.

We don't all agree with New Labour but that doesn't automatically make them
right -or us racists.

AUDREY PEASE Paignton, Devon


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               49 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 10, 2004

KILROY'S NOT HERE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 48 words


FORMER chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk has ruled out being an MP.

Now a Euro MP for the anti-Brussels UK Independence Party, he had been tipped to
stand in this autumn's Hartelpool by-election.

But yesterday Mr Kilroy-Silk said he wanted to concentrate on his European role.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                               50 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

Kilroy-Silk will not stand in Hartlepool

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 06

LENGTH: 225 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk, the UK Independence Party Euro-MP, confirmed yesterday that
he would not stand as the party's candidate in the Hartlepool by-election.

The former television presenter said if he won the contest, triggered by Peter
Mandelson's appointment as a European commissioner, he would have to resign as
an East Midlands MEP. "Having only just been elected, I thought that was a
totally inappropriate thing to do," he said on BBC radio.

He dismissed as "fiction" reports that he had been blocked from standing by UKIP
forces who thought he was upstaging Roger Knapman, the party's leader.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he had no ambition and no intention to be the leader of the
UKIP. He was happy being an MEP.

Two weeks ago, after Mr Mandelson's appointment was announced, Mr Kilroy-Silk
said he was coming under "considerable pressure" from his party to stand.

But although an existing MP could be elected as an MEP on a dual mandate, an MEP
could not become an MP without resigning first.

"Therefore, reluctantly, I said I was not going to stand."

Labour has selected Iain Wright, a local ward councillor, as its candidate to
defend the seat won by Mr Mandelson with a 14,571 majority in the 2001 general
election.

Jody Dunn, a barrister, is standing for the Liberal Democrats. The Tories and
UKIP have yet to select candidates.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               51 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

Tories on edge

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 245 words

Michael Howard may have decreed that the Conservatives will not do deals with
the UK Independence Party, but Spy learns that prospective Tory candidates are
getting increasingly concerned about the threat it poses to their electoral
chances.

A letter - leaked to Spy - was recently circulated among Conservative candidates
by Rob Wilson, who will fight Reading East next year.

He proposed that, in order to regain support lost to UKIP, Howard should offer
voters a referendum on withdrawal from the European Union if the European
Constitution is rejected in a similar exercise.

"This is clearly what a sizeable proportion of the electorate want," Wilson
wrote, "and we should let them have their chance. The [Conservative] Party would
make clear we will campaign to remain in the EU, but this will shoot UKIP's fox
and leave us taking the middle ground."

By all accounts, support for such a policy shift is growing.

"I've discussed it with several dozen candidates and the general mood is that it
seems like a reasonable idea," says Adam Afriyie, prospective candidate in the
safe seat of Windsor.

"It would enable us to bring in the UKIP vote, but stop us from falling into the
trap of creating a withdrawal mentality for the Conservative Party," he adds.

"This was a private note to colleagues," said Wilson when I contacted him
yesterday.

"However, it is opening an important debate within the Conservative Party about
how best to deal with UKIP."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               52 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 10, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Only half a revolution: The rigid divide between work and
family life since the industrial revolution is in the interests of employers -
but not the rest of us

BYLINE: Isabel Hilton

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1021 words


Dr Carol Black's prognosis for the medical profession - that it risked a
possibly terminal loss of status because the majority of medical students are
now female - began quite promisingly. It would be hard to argue with her that
female-dominated professions - with the possible exception of opera divas -
suffer from low public esteem and poor pay. Her prescription, though, was a
disappointment. The hope for a cure, she said, lay in an equal balance of men
and women. More men must urgently be drafted, a rapid reaction force deployed to
guard the profession's status from the otherwise inevitable attrition.

I am sure Dr Black, only the second woman in 500 years to be president of the
Royal College of Physicians, could do better. She complains that women do not
reach the higher ranks of the profession or enter the more demanding sectors of
it in sufficient numbers. There is, she points out, no female dean of a medical
school, head of a department of surgery or of medicine. Yet, while she complains
that women don't get to the top, she also laments that if they did, the
profession as whole would suffer.

It is not surprising that a profession which operated explicit quotas to limit
the number of women it recruited should suffer adjustment problems when the
effects of lifting those quotas work through. The panic in the British Medical
Association about the effects of feminisation is, in part, a measure of progress
in what was one of the country's more chauvinistic lines of work. But the
anxiety is also a sign of how the attitudes that underlay the quotas have been
disguised rather than changed in the past quarter of a century. Dr Black's
solution - more male doctors - implies fewer female doctors. What is that, if
not a return to quotas?

There is nothing wrong with the competence or commitment of the female medical
graduates. But they apparently fail to thrive in the profession in a way that
doctors seem unable to diagnose, despite the fact that the same phenomenon is
present in almost every workplace in the country: they do not make it on to
committees, they find the demands of advancement incompatible with family life,
they opt in larger numbers for part-time and flexible working.

The bottom line of what is being said here is still why can't women be more like
men? However, the problem is not that the workplace has been over-feminised but
that it has not been feminised enough. If we wish families to continue to exist,
to bring up children, to treat their elderly and sick with a modicum of
humanity, we have to accept that the burden and costs of work that is now
largely the unpaid labour of women have to be shared. We have had half a
revolution - the one that lowers the formal barriers to paid employment. The
other half - the one that shares the burden, is still a long way off.

At present, it is still women who pay. They pay in an impressive variety of
ways. Today 67% of women are employed, but they are still underpaid and under
promoted. Women in full-time work take home an average of 18% less per hour than
men. Women in part-time work (and more women than men are in part-time work)
take home an average of 40% less an hour. Women have been entering the law,
journalism, business, architecture and the civil service in ever-larger numbers
for three decades now, yet the senior ranks of all these professions remain
overwhelmingly male.

And what about the women who do make it? They pay an even higher price. In the
boardroom, for instance, according to a recent survey by NatWest and Director
magazine of 470 company directors, only one woman makes it to boardroom for
every 10 men - and those who do are far more likely than the men to be single
(33% single women against 8% single men). Twelve per cent of the women were
likely to be divorced compared with 5% of the men. What the survey suggests is
that 30 years on from the legislation that was supposed to fix this problem,
women continue to work harder for less and pay a disproportionate emotional and
social cost for their efforts.

Women have entered the workplace, but the price of advancement continues to be
an absolute divide between work and family life, a pattern laid down in the
industrial revolution for the convenience of factory owners, and remarkably
little changed since. The solution offered by the Vatican and Ukip is to send
women back to the home to indulge their better natures and clean behind the
fridge. It's a solution that is unlikely to prosper in the 21st century - women
would not put up with it and the British economy, like the Italian, could not
survive if they did. Italy and the UK have ageing populations and falling birth
rates. Of the estimated 2m new jobs that a growing economy is expected to create
over the next decade, some 80% are likely to be filled by women. Turning the
clock back is not an option.

The way forward, though, requires more energy and imagination in the workplace
than we have seen so far. If we want family life to survive, then men and women
must insist on ways of working that allow them the space and time family life
demands.

We no longer live in Victorian Britain but we live in something that is, in some
ways, worse - in an over-sexualised, atomised and frivolous culture in which the
dominant images that surround us derive from the need to keep us consuming.
Empowerment, the message is, means having the power to shop; liberation is
confined to sexual liberty; self knowledge to the mushy repetition of
pseudo-psycho cliches.

The workplace insists on the primacy of the shareholders' interest and on its
power to define itself as an institution devoid of reciprocal social
responsibility. The rights of women have become confused with the right of young
women to indulge the most self destructive aspects of male behaviour - to drink
to excess or behave as sexual predators. To establish the right of men and women
to live in balance between family and work demands a redistribution of the
social and economic burden - one reason why it continues to be so heavily
resisted.

isabel.hilton@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               53 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 10, 2004

Kilroy gives up battle to be a Ukip MP

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 283 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday abandoned a quest to return to Westminster as the
UK Independence party's MP for Hartlepool after losing a fierce internal battle.

A backlash against the former television presenter persuaded him to stick with
his lot as a Ukip MEP for the East Midlands.

Mr Kilroy-Silk attempted to put a positive gloss on his decision, saying he
would have had to resign as an MEP if he had won the forthcoming byelection. No
date has been set for the byelection which has been caused by the appointment of
Peter Mandelson as Britain's next European commissioner.

"Having only just been elected I thought that was a totally inappropriate thing
to do," Mr Kilroy-Silk told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

Mr Kilroy-Silk denied that he had been the victim of an internal feud. This was
sparked by his comment, in a GMTV interview with Joan Bakewell on the eve of the
European elections, that he might consider standing for the leadership of Ukip.
Many saw this as an insensitive attempt to upstage Roger Knapman, the former
Tory whip, who is Ukip leader.

"There is no fierce infighting," Mr Kilroy-Silk told Today. "Roger Knapman I
like and I get on with and we have a very straightforward, honest relationship.
I have no ambitions, I have no intentions. I have no desire to be the leader of
Ukip.

"I do not know one single person in the party who did not want me to stand and I
wanted to stand. I thought that I could represent my East Midlands constituents
effectively as well as the people of Hartlepool."

Mr Kilroy-Silk stood down 18 years ago as Labour MP for Knowsley North at the
height of the battle with Militant.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               54 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 10, 2004

News roundup: Politics: Kilroy-Silk renounces bid for seat

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 123 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday abandoned a quest to return to Westminster as the
UK Independence party's MP for Hartlepool after losing a fierce internal battle.

A backlash against the former TV presenter persuaded him to stay as a Ukip MEP
for the East Midlands.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he would have had to resign as an MEP had he won the
forthcoming byelection. "Having only just been elected I thought that was a
totally inappropriate thing to do," Mr Kilroy-Silk told the BBC Radio 4 Today
programme.

Mr Kilroy-Silk denied he had been the victim of an internal feud.This was
sparked by his comment, in a TV interview on the eve of the European elections,
that he might consider standing for the leadership of Ukip.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               55 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

PEOPLE: KILROY WILL NOT STAND FOR MANDELSON'S SEAT

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 54 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk said yesterday he would not stand as the UK Independence
Party's candidate in the Hartlepool by-election. The former television presenter
said if he won the by-election he would have to resign as an East Midlands MEP,
something he thought would be "inappropriate" given he had only just been
elected.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               56 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

Kilroy-Silk rejects MP bid

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 99 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk declared yesterday that he would not be standing for the UK
Independence Party in the Hartlepool by-election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who became an East Midlands MEP for the UKIP in June, thought
seriously about contesting the seat left vacant by Peter Mandelson's appointment
as a European commissioner, but he said: "Having only just been elected I
thought that was a totally inappropriate thing to do."

The UKIP candidate will be selected tomorrow. Among the hopefuls are Piers
Merchant, the former Tory MP for Newcastle South and the new UKIP chief
executive.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               57 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 09, 2004, Monday

Sceptics 'weakening Britain in Brussels'

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 236 words

DENIS MacShane, the Europe minister, has claimed that Britain is dangerously
under-represented in Brussels because it has only one European commissioner and
too many of its Euro MPs are hard-line Eurosceptics.

Dr MacShane's admission that pro-European British voices will now struggle to be
heard in the newly expanded European Union underlines the extent of Labour's
failure to build a pro-European consensus.

Tony Blair came to power promising that Britain would "lead in Europe" and
insisting that the British people would see that his positive attitude to the EU
was good for them and the country.

But in a letter to Philip Whitehead, chairman of the European Parliamentary
Labour Party, Dr MacShane said June's European election results had left
pro-Europeans at risk of being outnumbered.

The number of Labour MEPs dropped from 29 to 19, while the anti-Europe UK
Independence Party quadrupled its total from three to 12.

"Because of the political positions of other parties, the UK now has a
representative deficit in the European Parliament," Dr MacShane wrote.

He suggests that, in order to make up for the lack of representation, committees
of MPs should visit Brussels to scrutinise legislative proposals.

In addition, the new president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Baroso,
and others in his team should appear before the Commons Liaison Committee to
strengthen democratic checks.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               58 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 9, 2004, Monday

WHY WE SHOULD WORRY THAT THE YOUNG ARE SIMPLY NO LONGER INTERESTED IN POLITICS;
 THEY MAY WELL CONCLUDE THAT, AS THEY NEVER GAVE THEIR CONSENT, THE

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1186 words


For many years, I have tried to develop a visual memory, without success. I
could not tell you how many Bellinis there are in the National Gallery or
describe more than two of them, and even then with a pitiful lack of detail.
This may be due to the fact that my brain cells are clogged up with lesser
information, such as electoral statistics or lists of government ministers. On
the latter topic, I used to enjoy competitive exchanges with the late Roy
Jenkins, although he almost always won. Roy knew even more about the arcana of
British politics than he did about claret.

Until recently, there seemed to be an advantage in using one's memory as a
political lumber-room. I could have claimed that it had helped me to understand
British politics. Now, I am not so sure. I suspect that the political class -
broadly defined as politicians, senior activists and commentators - has never
been less qualified to interpret the politics of the street.

Last week, I had two conversations which made me wonder what is going on. One
was with a group of bright youngsters in the City; the other with some equally
clever young television journalists. A few years ago, their responses would have
been predictable. Though there might have been an exception in each group, the
City people would have been Tories; the television ones, on the left. Now, there
was no pattern, and none was even certain to vote at the next election. No one
retained much faith in Tony Blair; no one had discovered an alternative creed.

The only individuals with strong views were a couple of Eurosceptics, including
one of the television crowd. Both of them would have preferred to support a
Eurosceptic party that was left of centre. I tried to persuade them to vote
Tory; they were unconvinced. As the threat from Europe was receding and the
Tories were not going to win, what was wrong with wasting a vote on UKIP?

In both cases, I sensed that my interlocutors did not often discuss politics.
When I was their age - apart from believing that anyone who started a sentence
with "When I was your age"' must be gaga - I and my friends devoted a lot of
conversational energy to our political views. Though we were not monoglot
politicians, we would otherwise have felt intellectually naked. We would all
have agreed with Aristotle that the man without political opinions was an
inferior creature.

The 20-somethings I spoke to were anything but inferior. Yet none of them saw
the necessity of devoting much thought to politics, let alone to an allegiance.
Indeed, they were curious to meet someone who had. It was as if I had just come
back from an obscure and remote country, Politicia. They had vaguely heard of it
and thought that they might visit it some day, but from what they had read, its
natural beauties were not overwhelming. On the scale of seriousness, they would
all have regarded politics as superior to train-spotting or Morris dancing, but
some way below the Venetian Renaissance.

This has one healthy aspect. It does indicate that Britain is a more stable
country. When I was their age, EP Thompson was writing that we might all wake up
one morning to find that we were living in a socialist society. Even those of us
who found that prospect repugnant could not be certain that he was wrong. Benn
versus Thatcher: the entire future of the country seemed to be in question.

That is no longer true. Perhaps it might have been, if Mr Blair had displayed
the courage of his euro-convictions and used the moral authority, which he once
possessed, to try to abolish the pound and merge Britain into Europe. As he has
failed, we can safely roll up that map of Europe.

Without Europe, there seem to be no great, polarising issues in play. None of
the youngsters felt that the next Government would have more than a marginal
effect on the way that they lived. It would appear that this is not only true of
talented kids in the City or television, who might reasonably assume that they
were able to control their own destinies. At the Leicester South by-election,
despite maximum publicity and the likelihood of the seat changing hands, the
turnout was one eighth lower than it had been at the general election. In modern
Britain, Aristotle would appear to be preaching to a deaf audience.

It could be argued that the widespread lack of interest in elections is a sign
of political maturity. Over the millennia - it started in late 5th-century
Athens - demagogues have been claiming that they could use political mechanisms
to transform the lives of their electorate. If the voters have at last realised
that politicians cannot make them rich and happy, that might be a rare instance
of the current age actually making some intellectual progress.

Yet there is also a problem. We need government. Deep underground, well below
the modern architecture of politics, we could still discover that the whole
system rests on Hobbesian foundations. Government exists to protect us from the
dangers that would arise in its absence.

But as society becomes more prosperous and civilised, fear recedes. The citizens
of advanced societies increasingly expect their governments to act in their
name, with their consent. This creates an insuperable problem. Governments have
to take decisions. If they were always easy ones which displeased no-one, there
would be no need for government. They are not, and there is.

Difficult decisions bring discord. We can see that in the US. Whichever party
loses narrowly this November, many of its partisans will promptly go into
internal exile, refusing to accept the outcome as legitimate. The longer-term
consequences of this bitter division are hard to foresee, but the United States
is now less united than at any time since the Civil War.

In Britain, the fault lines are more dispersed. But in recent years, over issues
as diverse as foxhunting and the Iraq War, millions of British citizens have in
effect expressed their wish to withdraw their consent from the operations of
government. If Mr Blair were to win the next election with 36 per cent of the
vote, which is possible, while only 52 per cent of the electorate had voted -
equally possible - he would be governing with the endorsement of fewer than one
in five voters. If he started to become seriously unpopular while taking
unpopular measures, this could lead to trouble.

Aristotle assumed that those who absented themselves from the political process
had only themselves to blame if it went against them. A lot of the British
public may disagree. They may well conclude that, as they never gave their
consent, the Government has no right to act on their behalf and they have no
duty to obey it. Much of the street may have withdrawn from politics. When and
if it returns, it may wish to take politics onto the street.

The youngsters I was chatting to had no desire to bring about a crisis in the
governance of Britain. Over a drink on a hot August evening, nothing could have
been further from their minds. But that could be the unintended consequence of
theirs' and others' political apathy.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               59 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 9, 2004, Monday

WE'RE BECOMING AN AWFUL PLACE TO VISIT;
 HIGH PRICES IN THEMSELVES MAY NOT KEEP PEOPLE AWAY BUT THAT, COMBINED

BYLINE: YASMIN ALIBHAI-BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1255 words


Today I fly off to Toronto, one of the most delightful cities in North America,
and I know that we will have a great time and that we won't be resented or
fleeced. The people are charming and polite to visitors; they love children; the
food is adventurous and reflective of the diverse population; hotels are
perfectly run; public transport is cheap and efficient; and disability access is
more or less guaranteed. We are taking my frail mother in her wheelchair so that
is important.

Canadians visiting us this summer will not get any of the above and will, in all
probability, be fleeced and resented. It is that time of the year when too many
pesky tourists with huge feet and no sense of direction crash their rucksacks
into your nose and then offer smiley apologies, or gather in obstructive clumps
on streets and tubes, a menace to our way of life - at least that is how crabby
Britons see it.

Woody Allen, filming in London, has proclaimed that he loves our overcast skies,
and also the catering we provide his cast and crew. Prominent Americans just
love to flatter us and we just love to bathe in the Bill Bryson effect. But we
don't have to believe the guff.

For all the maddening problems and spiralling costs, I can see why so many of us
still choose to live in the United Kingdom. True, thousands are leaving or
yearning to leave to start new, "perfect" lives in Italy, France, South Africa
and Spain, but most of us are sticking with the old country. All around this
island are citizens proud to be living in trying yet irresistible places -
appealing English villages, great old cities like York, Cambridge and Edinburgh,
the beautiful landscapes of Cornwell, port and seaside towns, and (for me)
London.

I love the mess and the mix and the audacity of the city, the way it defies
order and will not belong to any indigenous claimants. The Romans, by 55BC, had
already snatched the area from the tribes who were settled there. A hundred
years later the project was completed and the rulers made London their capital.
My city is a useful reminder that this country was indeed occupied once and
forced into civilisation by a foreign power. Thereafter the wash has brought in
endless newcomers to unsettle the capital and settle themselves. It all adds to
the energy of what Andrew Marr, the BBC's political editor, describes as "this
greatest and most horrible of cities".

I fear that, for visitors, the greatness is being swamped today by the
horribleness. I have been to four countries this past year. In every single one
of them, I met dozens of people who once used to love travelling to Britain for
business or pleasure. Now, they say they hate coming over and try to avoid it if
possible. Folk in Dublin and Geneva were put off by our scandalous prices. (Did
you know that condoms cost three times as much in Britain as they do in most
European countries?) Mind you, rip-off Britain is not new. In 1750, visitors to
Kent noticed the loveliness of the countryside and the appalling prices charged
by the inns. London is now the second most expensive city in the world, 19 per
cent more expensive than New York.

High prices in themselves may not keep people away but that, combined with a
decline in civility, will. The corrosion of geniality in our society is
demonstrable. In Spain, young Spaniards were still excited by London they said.
The popular culture and buzz was unmatched by any other European city. But they
were sick of the insults and unpleasantness which they encountered all the time.
One of them, a language student from Madrid explained: "If we are asking the
English people something, or we say hello, they are very impolite. I don't want
sic go London now'.

Do this test. Go to the newspaper kiosks in Leicester Square, Sloane Square and
Knightsbridge. Ask for directions in broken English. Most of the time, if you
are lucky, you get humiliating silence. The unfortunate have to stand there
while they get filthy abuse. Can there be another nation where this has become
the norm?

Middle-class Indians can't see why they should pay vast amounts of money for
"shit" service and racism. One, a rich portrait painter, is boycotting Britain:
"They still treat us as if we are baboos, idiots from the Raj. Better to go to
Hong Kong or Singapore. Best hotels, great food and the people want you not just
your cash."

The problem is deeper than we think and could corrupt what we are aspiring to
become as a nation. If tourism begins to give up on us, if foreign students
follow suit, and if migrants and refugees decide this country stinks, they may
well find better options but our country will become a feeble, self-absorbed
onanist whom nobody loves.

Phillip Dodd, the erstwhile director of the Institute of Contemporary Arts, is
one of the few influential Britons to understand this. The ICA was once a
pretentious joint only for the avant garde crowd - mostly pale, thin smokers in
polo-necks speaking in peculiar tongues only to each other. Dodd turned it into
a dynamic, multifarious world street which connected with other nations,
particularly in the east. His parting remarks were salutary. Britain is, he
believes, perilously insular, inward looking and conceited.

Too many natives still believe they are specially blessed, and glorious, always
better than the rest of Europe (hence the popularity of UKIP), the ex-communist
countries, the whole of the east and the south. I have just read an asinine film
"review" of a popular Hindi film by one pugnacious Adam Smith in this week's
Radio Times. He has never seen a Bollywood film and nor have (he says) a number
of film critics. But they all know these movies are worthless because if they
were any good we would, by now, have an Indian Gerard Depardieu in Hollywood.

Oi, Smith, listen: billions of enthusiasts don't need your colonialist approval
for anything they do. And watch, son of Britain, as the subcontinent overtakes
us in business, inventive industries and creativity. Such awesome ignorance is
making us deeply unpopular. Swedes and Canadians have an enviable quality of
life and don't give a toss that Britons think of their countries as "boring".
Poland, the Czech Republic, and other new EU countries are shooting ahead in
spite of our miserable attitudes to their lands and peoples. And so on.

Great Britain has never properly confronted the detrimental effects of the
Empire on its own national psyche. Native Britons still think they own the world
and can do as they wish when they go abroad. And that they can behave as badly
as they want towards "outsiders" because that is how it was a long time ago, a
right bestowed on them by history. In a new book by Lucy Moore on the Maharanis,
you learn how Indian royalty was routinely humbled by English snobbery and
outrageous control. When they were allowed to visit here, they had to show due
inferiority. This expectation survives in our institutions and people.

Inherited, senseless hubris has only been encouraged by the rhetoric of the
neo-imperialists now in government. And so we are increasingly held in contempt
by the globalised, diasporic, heaving world with a fast developing meritocracy
which is not enchanted by myths of British glory. People know their worth today,
even the poorest. If they are treated with disrespect and they have the choice,
they will go elsewhere. Then perhaps the sun will finally set on the wretched,
stubborn Empire and we can start again.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               60 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 8, 2004

Observer Food Monthly: Drink: Baby, you can try my Cava: Tim Atkin's essential
guide to wine: If an astronaut in space toasts the New Year with sparkling wine,
it's got to be big business

BYLINE: Tim Atkin

SECTION: Observer Food Monthly, Pg. 52

LENGTH: 560 words


If you write about wine for a living, watching a promotional video can provide a
welcome diversion from the business of traipsing around vineyards and cellars.
Producers are keen to show it, having paid some D-list television presenter a
lot of loot to do the voiceover, and journalists are more than happy to sit in a
dark auditorium and laugh at the idealised image of itself the company is
desperate to present. 'Family values are as important today as they were in the
1920s,' intones a film about a dysfunctional bunch who clearly hate one
another's guts.

I was certainly expecting a few laughs when I visited the sparkling wine
producer Freixenet in Spain recently. Freixenet, whose Cordon Negro is the
best-selling sparkling wine in the UK, is the Disneyland of the Spanish wine
industry, complete with train rides, a corporate mission statement and a very
expensively produced corporate video.

Watching the film in a plush theatre, it was clear that the company had
persuaded a lot of famous people to drink its product, from Penelope Cruz and
Raquel Welch to Jose Carreras and Pilar Lopez de Ayala (a Spanish actress,
apparently). But my favourite moment was a shot of a female Russian cosmonaut
called Helena Kondakova seeing in the New Year with a glass of Cordon Negro.
Even in space, there's no escaping Freixenet. . .

As well as introducing me to Helena, the video contained some remarkable
figures. Or distressing ones, depending on your point of view. Freixenet makes
120 million bottles of Cava a year and claims to be responsible for 75 per cent
of Cava's exports. The fact that Cordon Negro is one of the least appealing
sparkling wines on the market doesn't seem to stop people buying it. I've given
up telling people to drink Codorniu or the Freixenet-owned but infinitely
preferable Segura Viudas instead because the famous black bottle (only slightly
naffer than a mullet) is a huge selling point.

Excluding champagne, more than half of the sparkling wine we drink in the UK is
Cava. There are a few decent ones, but it generally sells on price (as low as
£2.97 in one supermarket last year). But whatever its shortcomings, Cava is
driving the sparkling wine category very nicely, thank you, at the moment. We
can't get enough fizz, whether from Spain, Italy, France, New Zealand,
Australia, South Africa or the United States. And it doesn't stop us drinking
huge amounts of champagne, too.

The number two UK sparkling wine brand, Martini Asti, isn't much better than
Cordon Negro, unless you like something that tastes like partially fermented,
sherbet flavoured grape juice. But after that the picture gets a lot more
interesting, especially in the New World, where the top sparkling wines are
every bit as good as most non-vintage champagne and usually considerably
cheaper. New Zealand in particular is producing some fantastic wines these days.

You might not want to be seen drinking the preferred tipple of Ukip MEPs, but
the same is true of the UK. English fizz is a home-produced wine that you can
drink without wincing or blushing. The top cuvees from the likes of Nyetimber
and Ridgeview are often mistaken for something much posher from Reims or
Epernay. They're not as cheap as Cava (few wines are), but they're considerably
more sophisticated. Perhaps someone should tell Penelope Cruz.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               61 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 8, 2004

MANDY'S JOB NOT FORKILROY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 88 words


SUNDAY EXPRESS columnist and UKIP MEP Robert KilroySilk will not stand in the
forthcoming byelection for Peter Mandelson's Hartlepool seat.

The former Labour MP said: "A lot of people wanted me to stand but it would be
inappropriate, given that I have just been elected as an MEP.

I've still a big job to do for the people of the East Midlands."

He confirmed that the UK Independence Party would be fielding a candidate in the
by-election which - despite Labour's 15,000 majority - is set to be closely
fought.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               62 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 8, 2004

LEADER CROSS BENCHER; MAN FOR THE JOB

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 92 words


THE appointment of Peter Mandelson, below left, as Britain's next European
Commissioner has been given a glowing welcome by the UK Independence Party's MEP
Nigel Farage, who insists that Mandy is the "ideal man for the job".

"Mandelson is used to squandering millions of pounds of taxpayers' money, " he
explained.

"The EU is just like the Dome, only bigger and more expensive. Anyway, Mandy
will like Brussels - the property prices are much lower than in London so there
will be no need to borrow money from anyone to buy a nice flat."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               63 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 08, 2004, Sunday

UKIP leadership blocks Kilroy's Westminster bid

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: News; Pg. 02

LENGTH: 423 words

THE UK Independence Party was in disarray last night after its members turned on
Robert Kilroy-Silk, its brightest star, and attempted to block him from standing
for Parliament.

Less than two months after its triumphant performance in the European elections,
the UKIP's honeymoon period came to an abrupt end with fierce infighting over
the selection of a candidate for the Hartlepool by-election in autumn. Mr
Kilroy-Silk, a former television presenter, had voiced his intention to stand in
the seat made vacant by the appointment of Peter Mandelson as EU commissioner.

Senior party members, however, have moved to block him after claims that he
openly flaunted his leadership ambitions.

At a selection meeting in Hartlepool last week, UKIP members agreed to choose
another candidate from a list of 20 alternatives hurriedly assembled. They
decided that nominations would close today and that the winning candidate would
be announced on Thursday.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is on holiday at his Spanish villa and has told friends that he
will not challenge the decision. His apparent withdrawal from the contest has
split the party.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP for the South East, said: "I think people would like
him to stand. It would be a tremendously good idea." Many people believe that
the former Labour MP is the only candidate capable of mounting a campaign that
can challenge Labour.

Those close to Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, think otherwise. One party member
said: "Keeping Kilroy down has become more important than getting an MP." The
winning candidate is likely to be a relatively unknown local activist.

A UKIP spokesman insisted that Mr Kilroy-Silk could still apply for the seat
although he put the chance of that happening at just 50-50. Asked whether there
was any truth in Mr Kilroy-Silk having ambitions to lead the party, he said:
"Roger was elected to be our leader for a term of four years and he will be
leader for four years."

Mr Kilroy-Silk was unavailable for comment. He is said to be dismayed by the
party's lack of ambition after its success in the European elections.

Many veteran UKIP members, however, are bitter that Mr Kilroy-Silk has stolen
the limelight since he was elected for the East Midlands in June. Although Mr
Knapman, the former Tory MP for Stroud, has led the party since 2002, Mr
Kilroy-Silk has been the star of the show since the elections.

Allies of Mr Knapman fear that if the "housewives' choice" succeeds in becoming
an MP it would make his leadership aims unstoppable.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               64 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 07, 2004, Saturday

Reviews music

BYLINE: By Craig McLean

SECTION: Arts Pg. 10

LENGTH: 193 words

The Rasmus

Dead Letters

Island, pounds 13.99

Robert Kilroy-Silk and his UKIP cronies should take heart: herein lies proof of
the dangers inherent in a federalist superstate. Finland's Rasmus peddle a windy
Continental metal not endured on these shores since 1986, when Sweden's
cannily-named Europe sang The Final Countdown.

The Rasmus swept across Europe's singles charts this spring with In the Shadows.
Viewers of any music channel will recall it as the bouncing anthem with the
chorus that goes "oh-oh oh-oh", sung by an evil-eyed berk with feathers in his
hair. It also wins the pan-Euro prize for most gratuitous use of "cancer" in a
rhyming couplet (previous holder, Germany's Snap: "Rhythm is a dancer, I'm
serious as cancer").

On the band's fifth album, things only get worse. Like an even-more-humourless
Evanescence, they sing of teen alienation over crashing, goth/metal epics. The
best bit? The first line of the press notes that introduce the album: "Alienated
and withdrawn, a Victorian-era servant girl's life of drudgery is beset with
visions." Pull up the drawbridge! Protect Britain's rock fans from this foreign
menace!

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               65 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 07, 2004, Saturday

Anti-Europe video tears apart Conservatives in prize marginal

BYLINE: By Richard Savill

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 453 words

IT SHOULD be one of the prize marginal seats for the Tories at the next
election. But rather than fighting Labour, the Tories are fighting themselves in
Falmouth and Camborne, Lord Coe's former seat in Cornwall.

The row follows the suspension by Central Office of the constituency's
leadership for allegedly promoting an anti-European video, distributed by the UK
Independence Party. The eight suspended members will put their case to an appeal
next month.

The suspensions were ordered after a trainee agent allegedly informed Central
Office about the videos, but was then dismissed by the local management team.

There have been suggestions that Central Office is using the videos as an excuse
to get rid of the management because of an alleged conflict with Ashley
Crossley, 31, a barrister, who hopes to fight the seat for the Tories at the
next election. One of the allegations against the eight is that they failed to
check or censure "homophobic comments" by a member of the management team at an
executive meeting. Mr Crossley angered some of the suspended members by issuing
a statement backing Central Office in the dispute.

This prompted Michael Varney, 51, a local councillor and a member of the
suspended team, to make a bitter personal attack on Mr Crossley in the Falmouth
Packet newspaper.

He denounced Mr Crossley as a "sanctimonious shit". He added that Mr Crossley
had not lived up to expectations, and was "self opinionated and dictatorial and
not what we believed he was in the first place".

Yesterday Mr Varney, a former Army bandsman, security supervisor and guest house
owner, stood by his remarks. "I am one of those who speaks as he finds and we
have been treated like second-class citizens," he said. "I have not even seen
the video." Another suspended member, John Stanley, a retired solicitor, denied
promoting the video. It was "purely to stimulate some debate so if people were
concerned they could take up their concerns with Central Office," he said.

Mr Crossley, who was selected as the candidate in October last year, declined to
comment yesterday and referred all calls to Central Office.

One of his supporters, who declined to be named, said: "If you become a party
officer the least you can do is operate as a Conservative. This has nothing to
do with Ashley Crossley. He has support from the vast majority of the
association."

Michael Carter, 69, former deputy chairman of the Tory association, who joined
Ukip following the ousting of Iain Duncan Smith, said he thought the Tories had
"gone bananas nationally". He said: "It is not a Ukip video. I think the Tories
are afraid. The eight who are suspended are stalwarts of the party with many
years of service."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               66 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 07, 2004, Saturday

Euroscepticism encourages Britain's dark streak of racism, says minister

BYLINE: By Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 712 words

RIGHT-WING Eurosceptics are latent xenophobes whose views stem from a historical
distrust of the French and Germans dating back to the Second World War,
according to Denis MacShane, the Europe minister.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Mr MacShane said Eurosceptics were
giving "overt encouragement" to xenophobia which is damaging Britain's interests
in the wider world.

"A hundred years ago Lord Salisbury said 'you would no more give the vote to the
Irish than you would to a Hottentot'. I'm afraid we have got a dark streak of
xenophobia and racism in our mentality. Anti-Europeanism allows it to get a lot
closer to the surface."

Although he said he was not opposed to rational scepticism about Brussels, he
insisted: "Euroscepticism is a misnomer. What we are actually taking about is
hatred of Europe and a sense of superiority which has always been the Achilles
heel of Britain through the ages.

"In the Thirties, the Daily Mail was xenophobic and isolationist and it's
xenophobic and isolationist today."

The minister argued that hostility to the European Union is based on anti-French
and anti-German feelings that date back to the Second World War.

"I love history, I love war movies, I was moved to tears watching the veterans
from World War One lay their wreaths at the Cenotaph this week. But when a
healthy pride in winning the war in 1945 becomes offensive xenophobic hatred
against the Germans or the French in 2004, I don't think that shows the best
side of Britain."

He pointed to the anti-German chants made by English football fans during the
recent European championship. "There's a direct link between the lurid headlines
propagating myths about Europe, the language of contempt for Europe from the
Tory isolationists and the unbroadcastable xenophobic chants of some of our
football fans.

"The endless Tory and tabloid isolationism is the tip of the iceberg. It
validates a kind of Orwellian hate language against other European countries
that diminishes Britain's greatness."

The Conservative Party would not be in power unless it abandoned its
Euroscepticism, he said. "When the Tories become pro-European, then Labour will
face real opposition."

Mr MacShane, the son of a Polish immigrant, speaks four languages (French,
German and Spanish in addition to English) and carries Le Monde and El Pais in
his red box. He recently translated a poem by Bertolt Brecht for inclusion in
the Government's European Poems on the Underground scheme.

In private, however, the hyperactive MP for Rotherham, a former football
reporter, is a sports addict. He has run two marathons, skis at breakneck speed
down black slopes and jogs around Hyde Park at 6am every day before cycling in
to work.

In the final stages of the Hutton inquiry, he was to be found, halfway up a
glacier in Switzerland, with a pickaxe and a pair of crampons, tied by a rope to
his friend Jonathan Powell, the Prime Minister's chief of staff.

"I like to push myself," says Mr MacShane. "I adore mountains, it's sheer drama,
you're in another world."

Like many politicians, he is an incorrigible risk-taker. As a young man, he was
arrested for smuggling money into Warsaw and ate the piece of paper on which his
destination was written before he could be questioned by the police. As a
minister, he is a spin doctor's nightmare, far too willing to speak his mind.

When his daughter Clare died in a sky-diving accident earlier this year, his
friends said that she had inherited his fearlessness.

The Europe minister, who is acting Foreign Secretary this week while Jack Straw
is away, is a curious combination - part new man charm, part new lad brute
force. Perhaps that is what his job requires.

In the next two years, Mr MacShane will need gallons of both. He is the minister
responsible for selling the EU to a sceptical British public in the run-up to a
referendum on the constitution. Unlike the UK Independence Party, which spent
pounds 2 million on its recent campaign, he has a budget of pounds 200,000.

"Of course we've got a mountain to climb but that's better than being
complacent. There are more myths about Europe than you can find in Harry Potter,
the Lord of the Rings and The Da Vinci Code put together. My job is to explain
the facts."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               67 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 7, 2004

I've only £200,000 to make case for Europe - minister

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour: Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


Denis MacShane, the minister charged with preparing the referendum campaign on
the European constitution, has admitted he is being outgunned by the
Eurosceptics, who command a war chest far in excess of his government funds.

Mr MacShane is equipped by the Foreign Office with an annual budget of only
£200,000, out of which he has to pay for all information and campaigning to make
the pro-European case.

That equates to just 4% of the £5m provided by government for the deputy prime
minister, John Prescott, to disseminate information for the now largely
postponed referendums on regional assemblies in the north of England.

It also represents only a fifth of the £1m cash given to the home secretary,
David Blunkett, for advertising to clarify the government position on the
declassification of cannabis.

Questioning the government's priorities, Mr Mac Shane said last night: "Compare
the £200,000 available to me with the £2m that Paul Sykes chipped into the Ukip
campaign for the European elections. Compare it, too, with the £1m worth of
anti-European propaganda poured out daily by the rabid anti-European tabloids.

"In recent years, the British people have been fed a diet of lies and
distortions about anything ranging from replacing our monarch with an EU
president, the loss of our seat on the United Nations security council, or that
we will not be able to run a British army. The British people are longing for
facts and to put that case we need more resources."

Mr MacShane's public call for extra cash is unusual, and probably reflects
anxiety that the government needs to start making the case soon for the European
constitution agreed two months ago. Polls show a small majority against the
constitution, but many undecided.

Eleven members of the 25-strong EU plan to hold referendums, including most of
the big states apart from Germany. Tony Blair has insisted he will hold a
referendum in the UK even if another country votes no before a British vote.

There have been promises of roadshows by ministers since the decision to hold a
referendum, but there has been little sign of action, apart from propaganda by
the hard-pressed Britain in Europe group.

Cabinet Office guidance says government advertising campaigns should be
objective and explanatory, not tendentious, polemical or party political.

The government was second only to Procter & Gamble in the amount it spent on
advertising in 2003, up by nearly 15% to £138m. The average growth for Britain's
top advertisers was 6.4%. In the year to April 1998, the first year after
Labour's return to power, the Central Office of Information spent just £59m.

Many Labour MPs think the first year of a third-term Labour government would be
dominated by the referendum issue.

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               68 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 6, 2004

The gravy train starts here

BYLINE: DANIEL HANNAN

SECTION: ES MAG; Pg. 27; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1482 words


Bad news from Brussels.

The Euro MPs really are raking it in at our expense, says Daniel Hannan, and he
should know he's one of them. Welcome to the land of champagne and gravy It is a
myth that we MEPs fiddle our expenses. We don't need to. All our allowances are
handed over unconditionally, without any need for invoices or receipts. There
is, as it were, nothing to fiddle.

'Ah, so you're one of those, are you?' people say. 'We know all about you lot:
gravy train, first-class travel, champagne lifestyle.' But they are missing the
point. An MEP who travels Ryanair from Stansted and sleeps in the specially
provided bed in his office is arguably behaving more shabbily than one who flies
business class.

Let me explain.

Whenever you travel from your constituency to Brussels or Strasbourg, you are
reimbursed on the basis of the most expensive fare plus a 'kilometrage'
allowance regardless of how you actually make the journey. If you travel full
fare, you end up a couple of hundred pounds ahead.

But if you are prepared to take the cheapest possible route, you can easily make
Pounds 700 to Pounds 800 a week tax-free, since it counts as expenses rather
than income. And the longer the distance, the greater the profit: someone flying
from, say, Naples or Riga could end up trousering well over Pounds 1,000 per
trip. One lucky Euro MP lives in the Canary Islands.

Then there is the daily attendance allowance: E262 (around Pounds 173) per day,
Monday to Friday.

In theory, this is to pay for meals and accommodation. But the clever thing to
do is to buy an apartment, and then sublet a room to your researcher. With luck,
this will cover your mortgage, allowing you to take home nearly Pounds 1,000 a
week in clear profit tax-free, again. Forget about paying for your meals, by the
way.

Whenever you're hungry, just stretch out your arm and hail a passing lobbyist.

You don't actually have to turn up at any meetings to qualify for your
attendance allowance. Just before the European election, an Austrian MEP called
Hans-Peter Martin revealed that several of his socialist colleagues had been
signing the register and then immediately flying home. He quickly became the
most hated man in Brussels. A British Labour MEP, Gordon Adam, knocked him down
as he tried to film people signing in to, it must be said, general applause.

It's the same deal when it comes to your staff allowance, now nearly Pounds
9,000 a month.

This awesome sum is quite enough to employ a genuine secretary, as well as a
researcher and possibly a stagiaire, while still having a good fifty or sixty
grand left over for the missus, provided you describe her as your second
secretary. I wish I could tell you that this practice was confined to wily
Continentals but, as far as I have been able to establish, a clear majority of
British MEPs employ immediate members of their families. In fact, we're rather
famous for it. 'What is it about you English?' a French colleague once asked.

'You employ your wives, and you sleep with your staff.' I suspect it's the shock
of being catapulted into a glamorous world. We are trailed in the corridors by
pretty interns; our speeches, however banal, are translated into 20 languages;
we have a special passport to whisk us through airports without queueing;
lobbyists fight for the right to feed us. The better Brussels restaurants, La
Maison du Cygne overlooking the Grand Place, and Comme Chez Soi, which is
counted among the best in the world, treat Eurocrats and lobbyists as their core
custom. Crocodile in Strasbourg receives so much indirect subsidy from the
European Parliament that it really deserves its own paragraph in the EU budget.

The champagne receptions in the parliament's salons seem a long way away from
our previous lives as polytechnic lecturers. Add in the temptation of being away
from home all week and it is perhaps not surprising that some MEPs begin to tire
of the wives they acquired at an earlier stage in their social evolution.

Let me say at once that many MEPs behave impeccably; and that their wives often
work harder than any secretary, organising diaries on Sunday afternoons,
fielding telephone calls while waiting at the school gates. But the point is
that they don't need to. No one ever checks.

The system is based on sums of money being handed over for you to spend as you
please. For example, we get just over Pounds 2,300 a month in the aptly named
'general expenses' allowance. In theory, this is to cover costs connected with
our parliamentary work, such as office rent, postage and petrol. In practice, it
is never audited, and many MEPs have it paid directly into their current
accounts.

No one ever asks you to supply receipts. In fact, virtually the only way to get
found out is to alienate your staff. A few years ago, a Labour MEP called Glyn
Ford made the mistake of falling out with his secretary. It then emerged that he
was spending his Euro allowances on, among other things, gardening and laundry
bills. The parliamentary authorities mounted an investigation which, without
exactly contradicting the secretary, nonetheless cleared Mr Ford.

I suspect the 'investigation' went something along these lines. 'Ah, hello,
Glyn, fees office here. So sorry about this beastly business in the press. Look,
we have to ask this: have you done anything to be ashamed of?'

'No fear!' 'Good man. Thanks for being so honest.' The truth is that the
European Parliament operates a tacit double standard. If you are a goody-goody
federalist, you can get away with a great deal. But woe betide you if you are a
Eurosceptic. During the last session, two UKIP MEPs, Nigel Farage and Jeffrey
Titford, published accounts showing that they had contributed several thousand
pounds from their excess allowances to Euro-sceptic causes.

The parliament instantly demanded that they repay the money. When I asked the
authorities why they were acting in this case but in no others, I was told that
it was because they had admitted in writing to running an excess rather than, it
was implied, quietly pocketing it.

By writing this article, I am more or less guaranteeing that I will be accused
of some infraction or other. So why am I doing it? It certainly won't make me
any friends. The last time I touched on this subject publicly, I was sent to
Coventry or 'sent to Limoges', as amused French MEPs called it. A German
colleague, with whom I had previously been rather friendly, sent me the
following email: 'Dear Daniel Hannan, I can only assume that you were drunk
before writing about your colleagues in this way.' A fellow Conservative, a peer
of the realm no less, swayed sweatily toward me at a drinks reception.

'Hannan, you're a c**, a c***, a er, a c***,' he bellowed.

'A c***,' he added, just to ram home his point.

Nonetheless, I want you to contemplate the reality of the Brussels system.

Under the proposed constitution, we would hand substantial new powers to the EU.
Before doing so, it is surely sensible to look at how it is exercising the
powers it already has. MEPs seem unable to tackle the gargantuan fraud in the EU
spending programmes. They have repeatedly refused even to put their own house in
order. Yet it is now proposed that these same people be put in charge of our
legal system, our borders, our taxes and our policing. My masters, are you mad?

It is not even as though MEPs have simply failed to get around to hosing out
their stable.

On the contrary, every year the budget contains an amendment linking allowances
to actual costs incurred; and every year it is voted down.

It is true that the parliament indicated last year that it would reform the
expenses regime, but only in return for a substantial pay rise. Give us more
over the counter, MEPs effectively said, and we'll be prepared to take less
under it.

An elaborate game is played whenever a cleanup is suggested. MEPs declare
themselves in favour until the last minute, then find a technical reason to vote
against. Sometimes, they miscalculate. During the last session, there was a
proposal to extend the free health insurance enjoyed by all Members to ex-MEPs,
too. Across the chamber, you could see people looking intently at the declared
positions of the main parties. They were trying to work out whether the proposal
was sure to get majority backing, thus enabling them, personally, to vote 'no'
without actually stopping it. Hilariously, too many of them made the same
calculation, and the proposal fell by a handful of votes. I have never seen the
hemicycle so glum.

Not that they need worry. The idea is almost certain to come back and, sooner or
later, it will be approved. For all the earnest rhetoric, you can be sure that
the income of Eurocrats will move only in one direction. That's enough gravy:
bring on the champagne!

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               69 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 6, 2004, Friday

Fair play and common sense crash on the Rock

BYLINE: Felipe Fernandez-Armesto

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 971 words


The truth about Gibraltar is shrouded in British ignorance and prejudice.

GIBRALTAR is more than a rock: it is a hard place to understand. The British
delude themselves into thinking that it is simple by masking the truth. It is
almost impossible to find anyone in Britain who can recount Gibraltar's past or
foresee its future. Indeed, almost everything British people commonly believe
about Gibraltar is false: they think that Gibraltar is British sovereign
territory by treaty (it isn't); that Spain wants to circumvent Gibraltarians'
wishes (it doesn't); that Spanish policy is vitiated by "hypocrisy" or
"inconsistency" (there is none of either); that Gibraltar can remain prosperous
and happy without decolonisation (it probably can't).

The British public does not want to know the facts. The Government is unwilling
to publish them. This raises a deeper problem: why, in a democracy hungry for
information, where media and voters scour every other kind of spin, is Gibraltar
one of the few topics exempt from rational and impartial scrutiny?

Spaniards in Britain know the answer in their hearts, from their own bitter
experience. Britain still does not treat Spain on terms of equality. Some
British minds remain cluttered by the detritus of past conflict. Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the UK Independence Party MEP, tells us that he "likes Spaniards
but does not trust them". Outside the ranks of the professional intelligentsia
and the arts, where Spain enjoys remarkable prestige, the same patronising,
complacent spite is all too common. Geoff Hoon claims to "respect Spaniards
but..." The kick is in the "but". Many thousands of Britons now take advantage
of cheap Spanish language courses; most of the students, however, want only
tourist trivia and hardly get beyond the imperative forms of the verbs.
Yesterday I heard a young Spaniard on a London bus, regaling a Sloaney fellow
student with stories of affected British superiority. "But when you get back to
Spain," she replied, "you'll have the advantage of a British degree, which will
be so much better than a Spanish one."

Despite the accretions of prejudice, if the British knew the truth about
Gibraltar, they would want to put the historic injustices right. Gibraltar is
part of the sovereign territory of Spain and has been ever since the Spanish
state began to take shape in the late 15th century. The Treaty of Utrecht
-commonly cited by people who have not read it -did not alter that status. The
treaty conferred perpetual property rights over part of the present territory of
Gibraltar to the British monarch, but explicitly reserved sovereignty to Spain.

Subsequently, Britain infringed the terms of the treaty in numerous ways,
especially by occupying extra territory, introducing colonists and arrogating
sovereignty. It is also true that Spain, with only mild and sporadic protest,
has tolerated this situation. Britain's rights, such as they are, rest on
Spanish acquiescence, not on the treaty.

I have no doubt, moreover, that most readers of this piece think Spain's
position on Gibraltar is "hypocritical" because of a supposed parallel between
Gibraltar and the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla on the far side of the
strait. Geoff Hoon's confession that he does not understand the difference
leaves him self-disqualified by ignorance. Ceuta and Melilla are not colonies,
but parts of Spain, with the same status and rights as other Spanish cities.
That they are separated from the rest of Spain by a stretch of water does not
make them any less Spanish than the Balearic or Canary Islands. They have never
formed part of what is now the Moroccan state. Gibraltar, by contrast, is, by
any normal understanding of the word, a colonial territory, where international
law on decolonisation applies. Strictly speaking, the juridical position is
clear: the territory should be returned to the country from which the territory
was seized by the occupying power.

These facts should inform debate about Gibraltar, not stifle it or prejudge the
outcome. Between friends such as Britain and Spain, justice should count for
more than law, and prospects for the future should count alongside facts about
the past. For a democratic country such as Spain, Gibraltarians' right to choose
their own future is paramount. That is why Spain seeks a status for the Rock
that acknowledges Britain's special place in Gibraltarian traditions, and
Gibraltarians' distinct identity as an historic community in their own right. No
solution that fails to respect these aims would be sought by the Spanish state,
or accepted by the Spanish people.

Now that the bunting has come down after the celebrations of the third centenary
of Britain's first occupation of the Rock, there is, perhaps, a chance to start
a rational discussion about crafting a future consistent with historic facts and
present needs. Gibraltar is an historical anomaly. That is fine. Europe is full
of such anomalies: the Channel Islands, the Faroes, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino,
the sovereign Holy See. Like the rest, Gibraltar can and should have a peculiar
status, suited to its own historical profile, circumstances, traditions and
interests.

In the long term, Gibraltar needs a modernised constitution and prosperity
strong enough to survive British defence cuts. A just and workable consensus is
possible, reflecting the facts and their inescapable conclusion: Gibraltar is,
in different senses, both Spanish and British. It could have a status which
embodies that truth and satisfies its people. While the British persist in
ignorance of the facts, and their Government in indifference to them, the
injustice will fester, and the frustrations will mount.

The author is Professor of Global Environmental History at Queen Mary,
University of London


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               70 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 5, 2004

G2: JennyColgan: Ukip hooray on Gibraltar's birthday

BYLINE: Jenny Colgan

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 100 words


Happy birthday, Gibraltar, where the smell of monkeys, tax-free fags and all-day
breakfasts is never far away. How nice to celebrate it with a show of military
might through the centre of town, marching up and down, sticking their tongues
out at our fellow Europeans.

This sits well with the fact that the government of Gibraltar has refused to
show its accounts to Britain for more than three years. Oh, and two of its seven
MEPs are Ukip, which seems entirely fitting given the fondness that party's
leadership already shows for Spain. God Save the Queen.

Catherine Bennett is away


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               71 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 5, 2004, Thursday

DON'T BE FOOLED BY THE RISE OF THESE SMALL PARTIES WITH THEIR SIMPLISTIC
SOLUTIONS

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1205 words


Nervy Labour and Conservative strategists are becoming increasingly alarmed by
the rise of smaller political parties. They are almost more worried about this
than they are about each other. After all they are used to fighting each other.
The relatively strong showing of the United Kingdom Independence Party, the
British National Party, the Greens and the anti-war Respect forces the bigger
parties on to new terrain. They are not entirely sure what to do about it or
what the longer-term electoral consequences will be.

As far as Labour is concerned, Frank Dobson, a former health secretary, is
already keeping an eye on the BNP, especially in the north of England. When Mr
Dobson is not watching Tony Blair with a wary despair he heads northwards in a
semi-official capacity, making discreet visits to Burnley, Oldham and other
nearby towns. In the south of England, the minister Lord Bassam of Brighton is
working on a strategy to counter the rise of the Greens. The Greens performed
well enough in the local and European elections to suggest that they could
deprive Labour of some seats in a general election. Meanwhile the Conservatives
are sweatily anxious about the threat posed by UKIP. A decent showing from the
anti-European party at the general election could lead to a further calamitous
loss of seats.

The impact of the smaller parties and the frailty of the big two can be seen in
the neurotic anguish over the looming by-election in Hartlepool. Labour fears it
cannot keep what should be a safe seat. Young aspiring candidates are being
advised to keep well clear. As usual in by-elections the Tories are working on
the assumption that they do not have a hope of winning and would probably raise
a glass if they came a decent third. This means Charles Kennedy should be
rubbing his hands in gleeful anticipation, but even the Liberal Democrats are
not immune from the rise of smaller parties. They worry that UKIP will cause an
unpredictable stir.

The rise of the smaller parties is partly to do with the failure of the bigger
two. The Conservatives have had an identity crisis for more than a decade now.
Since the fall of Margaret Thatcher they try out different identities most days
of the week: "We are still a Thatcherite party ... No we are not, we are
compassionate Conservatives with leaders who wear baseball caps ... We are
passionately Eurosceptic ... Oh no, we don't talk about Europe because when we
do we tend to give the impression that we are deranged ... We talk about Europe
quite a lot, and have a moderately sceptical approach."

Such traumatic, unresolved introspection is a gift for parties with simplistic
right-wing messages. How easy it is for voters on the right to turn away from a
party tortured by self-doubt to ones with seemingly passionate convictions on
Europe, asylum and crime.

Labour also has an identity crisis, in some ways deeper than the one
overwhelming the Conservative Party. At least Conservatives, from Ken Clarke to
Iain Duncan Smith, place themselves on the right of the political spectrum.
Under the leadership of Tony Blair, Labour has moved far enough to the right to
make it far from clear where the party stands on the political spectrum. Mr
Blair has made competence the main dividing line with the Conservatives. Indeed
he recently declared that the big idea behind New Labour was economic competence
and social justice. As no political party advocates policies based on economic
incompetence and social injustice there are ideological limits to Mr Blair's
political philosophy. His tame defensiveness has left large amounts of political
space on the centre- left.

This is mainly occupied by the Liberal Democrats, although they have contrived
an identity crisis too. They are to the left of Mr Blair but cannot admit it
because they seek votes from the right. The performance of the Liberal Democrats
at the next election is one of the more unpredictable factors in the political
equation. In the last two elections they have been part of an anti-Conservative
force, explicitly so under the leadership of Paddy Ashdown and by implication
under Charles Kennedy. But over the past year they have won by-elections in
Labour territory and have clearly benefited from the disillusionment of former
Labour supporters who opposed the war. If these Labour voters do not return to
the fold by the time of a general election, Mr Blair will limp to a third
victory at best.

With the Greens also making some inroads, the relatively modest level of votes
New Labour secured in 1997 and 2001, fewer than the Conservatives won in 1992,
will prove to have been a peak.

Smaller parties have flourished fleetingly in the past, enjoying a moment or two
in the limelight before imploding pathetically, swept aside by the Labour and
Conservative giants. In the 1970s the National Front was making similar waves to
the BNP. The Greens soared in the 1988 European elections, forcing even Mrs
Thatcher to affect a brief interest in environmental matters. Like other smaller
parties they failed to build on their success.

There is, though, a big and understated difference now. Nearly all elections in
Britain are conducted on the basis of proportional voting systems, which give
greater sustained opportunities to smaller parties. It is only in general
elections for the Westminster Parliament that voters put a cross against a
single candidate in a straightforward, first-past-the- post contest. This has
been a stealthy constitutional revolution. One of Mr Blair's early concessions
to Paddy Ashdown was the introduction of a new voting procedure for European
elections. The Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly are elected on the basis
of limited proportional representation. For the mayoral contest in London and
the London Assembly, convoluted proportional systems come into play.

Indeed so complex are these various voting procedures that I continue to meet
highly intelligent people in London who claim to have found the task of voting
last June almost impossible. The ballot papers baffled them. Whatever the
logistical problems, these voting systems breathe life into smaller parties,
making it much less likely that they will fade away.

There are some who will regard this new development as an example of a robust
new pluralism, arguing that voters have real choice as more parties thrive. They
are being naively optimistic. Most of the smaller parties present glib solutions
that rarely stand up to scrutiny. Quite often they are poorly and eccentrically
led. Of course the generalisations do not apply in every case. There are
important differences between the smaller parties. Some have noble aspirations.
Others are brutally ugly. But in most cases voters are not being astute
political consumers in opting for these parties. Instead they are accepting the
cliches that most mainstream politicians are up to no good.

The rise of small parties is a depressing sign of decay in the bigger ones and a
refusal on the part of voters to face complicated choices. When small parties
flourish in Britain, democracy is weaker. Yet under the new voting systems,
smaller parties are here to stay.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               72 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 4, 2004
                              Correction Appended

Model village that is forever England: Bekonscot at 75 is thriving in the age of
video games

BYLINE: Maev Kennedy Arts and heritage correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 648 words


There is still a Britain where every train runs on time from pristine stations,
happy neighbours stand gossiping in spotless streets, the youths hanging around
the market square are sharing a celebration cake instead of torching the
bunting, and - a sight to cheer any Ukip politician - a woman is down on her
knees scrubbing her doorstep.

True, the barmaid at the Barley Mow looks to have had a tankard of cider too
many and is about to topple backwards through the door of the public bar, and a
burglar is sprinting across the racetrack, though a nice community copper is in
hot pursuit.

Unfortunately the happy citizens are only four inches tall. Some of them have
been hanging around their street corners every summer for 75 years.

Today, three tiny cheers will ring out around the world, from the 20 other
members of the International Association of Miniature Parks, from Canada to
Australia, as a rich man's toy in Buckinghamshire officially becomes the oldest
model village in the world.

Bekonscot, in the Buckinghamshire market town of Beaconsfield, admitted the
first members of the paying public on August 4 1929, and is still thriving.

All the profits went to charities from the start - the owner, London accountant
Roland Callingham, certainly did not need the money - and to date it has raised
more than £4m. Visitor numbers have fallen, but in the age of video games and
white-knuckle theme parks ticket sales are still brisk.

Last year the village attracted 200,000 people, and more than 20,000 came last
month. In the steamy heat this week it has been packed.

Tim Dunn, who has written the official guidebook to the village - he is only 23,
visited first as a toddler, and has been intermittently running the train system
since he was 13 - says the charm is the illusion of an unchanged world: "Like
most of us, Bekonscot has never really grown up . . . It has remained virtually
unchanged.

"Model steam trains chug around the railway and the Bekonscot fire brigade has
never gone on strike. Bekonscot is truly a little piece of history that is for
ever England."

The authorities spotted this aspect of the village and in the second world war
Bekonscot was used for propaganda photographs, showing the gardener as air raid
warden and tin-hatted fire crews standing by the castle.

In the lean aftermath of the war there was something comforting about the safe
little streets: most of Europe's model villages date from this time. The formula
was copied all over the country, down to the awful puns - the baker is Ivan
Huven, the greengrocer Chris P Lettis.

Bekonscot itself has gone back in time. The railway station is now an elaborate
glass-roofed Edwardian vision, but was originally art deco, and other buildings
originally in contemporary style have been remodelled to look more quaintly
old-fashioned.

The real love of the village's creator was model railways. When Callingham's
train set outgrew the house he moved it to the garden, and then the adjoining
paddock. He and his head gardener, Tom Berry - who was to work on the village
for another half a century - built the houses as landscaping around the train .

The track was laid out beside the swimming pool, but when Callingham realised
the guests at his bathing parties were more interested in the trains and houses,
it became the village lake, complete with pleasure boats, beach and pier.

The children's author Enid Blyton was a near neighbour, and wrote a
teeth-rottingly sweet booklet, The Enchanted Village: "Mary cries out in joy 'It
might be Fairyland! It's just as small anyway!'"

Green Gables, where she wrote most of her books, survives as a model in
Bekonscot, built to mark the centenary of her birth in 1997, complete with the
author sitting on a garden bench.

guardian.co.uk/arts

Links

www.Bekonscot.co.uk Bekonscot model village


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2004

CORRECTION:  We mistakenly said that Enid Blyton lived in Green Gables (Model
village that is forever England, page 8, August 4). Her house in Beaconsfield
was called Green Hedges. Lucy Maud Montgomery created Anne of Green Gables,
which is set on Prince Edward Island, Canada.

It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant errors as soon as
possible. Please quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the office
of the readers' editor by telephoning 0845 451 9589 (UK only, calls charged at
local rate) or +44 (0)20 7713 4736 between 11am and 5pm UK time Monday to Friday
excluding UK bank holidays. Mail to Readers' editor, The Guardian, 119
Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, UK. Fax +44 (0)20 7239 9997. Email:
reader@guardian.co.uk

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               73 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 4, 2004, Wednesday

Tory 'locked out'

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 148 words


A Conservative candidate yesterday accused the leaders of his association, who
were all suspended after showing an anti-EU video, of locking him out of the
office.

Last week The Times reported that the entire hierachy of the Falmouth and
Camborne Conservative Association had been suspended after they showed a video
directed by a man elected as MEP for the UK Independence Party. Yesterday,
Ashley Crossley, the parliamentary candidate for the seat, said that his agent,
Philip Williams, was sacked after finding that the leadership had shown copies
of a video espousing UKIP views. The association then changed the locks, he
said. Eight of the association's leaders have now been suspended.

"We will no longer tolerate those in our party who act against our interests,"
said Mr Crossley, adding that the accused members "stand in the way of
Conservative victory".


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               74 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 03, 2004, Tuesday

Tories suspend local chiefs over UKIP video

BYLINE: By Richard Savill and Toby Helm

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 476 words

THE leadership of a Tory constituency association has lodged an appeal after it
was suspended by Central Office over allegations that it promoted an
anti-European Union video distributed by the UK Independence Party.

Eight members of the association in Falmouth and Camborne, Lord Coe's former
seat in Cornwall, have been suspended, including the chairman, Quentin Peck. The
investigation followed a claim that the constituency management team promoted
the 30-minute video in contravention of party rules.

The pounds 4.50 video, called Shockwaves, claims to reveal "the facts they don't
want you to know about the European Union".

It was produced by the Subjects Against the Nice Treaty (Sanity), which was
founded by Ashley Mote, who became a UKIP Euro MP for the South East region in
the June elections. Mr Mote has had the UKIP whip withdrawn after failing to
tell party managers that he faced trial over allegations of housing benefit
fraud.

The Falmouth and Camborne Party is alleged to have produced a leaflet urging
members to purchase copies of the video, which supports UKIP's stance of pulling
Britain out of the EU. The appeals against their suspension will be heard in
London by a Central Office panel expected to comprise former Cabinet ministers
and to be chaired by a QC.

The association has been put on "supported status", meaning its functions are,
in large part, being run under the supervision of Central Office. The party
headquarters has sent Richard Stephens, the deputy area director for Devon and
Cornwall, and Ernest Lister, the Tories' Somerset county chairman, to run the
association.

A Central Office spokesman said last night: "There is an investigation under way
but we cannot go into details. The association has been put into supported
status which means it is being partially run by central Office."

A member of the association has claimed that a UKIP "cell" has been operating
within the branch. However, officials said the claim was "over-dramatic".

Conservative Central Office is also investigating an allegation that a speaker
from UKIP was invited to address an official association dinner.

UKIP organisers in the South West said the suspension showed the Conservatives
were in a "state of panic" as it was a "non-party political video".

The Conservatives were severely rattled when their vote in the European
elections slumped from 36 per cent in 1999 to 27 per cent, largely as a result
of UKIP's surge.

The anti-EU party quadrupled its seats in the European Parliament to 12 in the
biggest breakthrough for a minor party in 25 years.

Mr Peck yesterday declined to comment, dismissing the matter as a storm in a
teacup.

A UKIP spokesman said the party was not proposing to take any further action
until the case involving Mr Mote, which is due to come to court in November, had
been completed.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               75 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 03, 2004, Tuesday

Sanity offends the Tories

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 19

LENGTH: 202 words

A bead of sweat trickles down the collar of a middle-aged man as he sits
watching a banned video with like-minded punters behind drawn curtains in the
summer swelter. As a local politician, his career could be in jeopardy if this
got out. What are these taboo images flickering on the screen? Some filth from a
paedophile ring or secret footage of badger-baiting? No, just a 30-minute
compilation of statistics about the European Union, produced by an organisation
called Subjects Against the Nice Treaty (Sanity).

As soon as Central Office discovered that members of the Falmouth and Camborne
Conservative Association had watched the video, the entire local leadership was
suspended. Their sin was to screen a video that, before the closing credits,
promotes the UK Independence Party.

The Falmouth association has been given "supported status"; in other words its
administration has been taken over directly by Central Office. With support like
that, who needs political opponents?

The resolution of the case awaits a hearing, with QCs, top brass and full-volume
publicity. UKIP may be "cranks and gadflies", but they are hardly Militant. Is
it not possible that Central Office has over-reacted?

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               76 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 3, 2004, Tuesday

Tory voters expect election defeat

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 584 words


FEWER than half of all Tory voters expect the party to win the next election, a
Populus poll for The Times has found.

The poll undertaken over the weekend, shows that, by a three to one margin, the
public expects a Labour rather than a Conservative government after the
election, even though the two parties are now level-pegging.

Liam Fox, the Tories' joint party chairman, yesterday promised a new policy and
communications offensive next month with "new language" and "fresh voices". This
followed a warning by Tim Yeo, a member of the Shadow Cabinet, over the weekend
that the party had reached a "plateau" and had "to raise its game".

Nearly three fifths of voters (59 per cent) expect Labour to win an overall
Commons majority at the next election. But some 47 per cent think the current
Labour margin of 159 will be cut to less than 100. Just 11 per cent expect a
Labour majority in three figures. Over four fifths of Labour supporters (85 per
cent) expect Labour to win again.

By contrast, just 19 per cent of voters think there will be a Tory government.

This includes a mere 45 per cent of Conservative supporters, a third of whom (34
per cent) believe that there will be a Labour majority government.

Men (64 per cent) and middle-class groups (62 per cent) are more likely than
women ( 53 per cent) and the working classes (54 per cent) to think Labour will
win the next election. These expectations are despite a limited Tory recovery
this month after the UK Independence Party ate into the Conservatives' support
in the June European elections. The Tories are now on 32 per cent, up three
points on early July. This is the same level as Labour, down one point over the
month. The Liberal Democrats are unchanged on 24 per cent. Other parties are
down two points at 12 per cent. The UKIP is now on 5 per cent. Support for both
the main parties has slipped since the June elections: Labour down from 35 to 33
per cent on average in published polls, and the Tories down from 35 to 31 per
cent.

Nevertheless, while Labour support is roughly ten points below its 2001 election
level, the Tory share is not nearly high enough yet to achieve a breakthrough.

This is partly because tactical voting by Labour and Lib Dem supporters and the
higher Tory turnout -even where they have no chance of winning -mean that Labour
is likely to have many more MPs than the Tories even if their share of the vote
is the same.

The main recent gainers have been the Lib Dems, up two points on average since
the June 10 elections, and eight to nine points higher than at this stage of the
last Parliament. Their advance is a challenge to Labour in some urban areas and,
by splitting the anti-Labour vote, may prevent the Tories winning other seats.

Charles Kennedy, the Lib Dem leader, will visit Hartlepool today to campaign
before the by-election this autumn caused by the appointment of Peter Mandelson
as a European commissioner.

The latest Populus poll also shows that the leader ratings of both Tony Blair
and, particularly, Michael Howard have slipped since April, while Mr Kennedy
enjoys the highest rating among the public. Mr Blair has, however, maintained a
consistently high rating among Labour voters.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults across the country by
telephone between July 30 and August 1. Results have been weighted to be
representative of all adults.

Poll details, page 2 Andrew Cooper, page 16 Leading article, page 17


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               77 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 3, 2004, Tuesday

Howard may be snared by Labour poll trap

BYLINE: David Charter, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 288 words


SENIOR Labour figures are considering a plan to undermine Michael Howard's big
day at the Tory party conference by calling the by-election to replace Peter
Mandelson on the same day.

Mr Howard makes his crucial leader's speech on October 7 but a bravura
performance could be eclipsed in the next day's coverage by a poor by-election
result in Hartlepool later that night.

The Conservative campaign has been slow to start while the Liberal Democrats
have already selected their candidate. Charles Kennedy, the party leader, will
visit the North-East town today.

With the UK Independence Party likely to pick up votes based on its strong
showing in the European and local elections, Mr Howard's headlines could be
spoiled by coming third or even fourth in the by-election caused by Mr
Mandelson's appointment as an EU commissioner.

Labour is determined not to make the same mistake in choosing a day for the
contest as it made last year over calling the Brent East by-election just before
the conference season. It handed the Lib Dems a boost on the eve of their annual
gathering when the by-election was won by Sarah Teather. Labour activists
insisted yesterday that they were concentrating on fighting the by-election on
the concerns of local voters.

They attacked the Lib Dem selection process, claiming that a local figure had
been blocked from the final shortlist. The Lib Dems dismissed the claim. Labour
will draw up a list of candidates tomorrow and is expected to choose its
contender on Friday from a field which includes Patrick Diamond, a Downing
Street adviser, and David Bowe, a former Yorkshire MEP. Local party figures have
made clear their preference for a local candidate, however.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               78 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 2, 2004

MANDELSON CASHES IN

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 626 words


THE row over the appointment of Peter Mandelson to Europe re-ignited yesterday
over speculation that his boyfriend could be in line for thousands of pounds of
public money as compensation for going to Brussels.

Mr Mandelson may be able to apply for a "household allowance" in respect of
longterm partner Reinaldo da Silva when he becomes Britain's EU Commissioner on
November 1, it emerged.

The allowance is on offer to established, live-in partners of people who go to
work in Brussels. It is designed to acknowledge that the person may have left
employment to travel with their partner.

A spokesman for the EU Commission was last night unable to confirm whether the
allowance would be payable to a gay partner.

However, it is thought likely it would apply to Mandelson and his boyfriend
given the longstanding liberal traditions of other EU countries towards
homosexuality and the fact that the allowance is payable to unmarried couples.

One report suggested Mr Mandelson and Mr da Silva may have to "formalise" their
union - perhaps in the form of one of the new civil partnerships for gay couples
- to claim the allowance. But the Commission spokesman said:

"Couples don't have to be married to claim the allowance. But they have to prove
they have a household relationship with each other.

"The allowance is also means-tested according to the partner's income."

The allowance is thought to be a flat sum of around GBP 350 a month, or GBP
4,200 a year. Some estimates yesterday suggested that, with other living and
"settling in" allowances, Mr Mandelson's GBP 145,000-a-year salary could be
boosted by as must as GBP 2,400 a month - or nearly GBP 30,000 per year.

Mr Mandelson and 31-yearold Brazilian Mr da Silva - who speaks seven languages -
have been together for five years.

When Mr Mandelson, 50, was Northern Ireland Secretary they shared his official
accommodation at Hillsborough Castle, and it is assumed they will live together
in Brussels.

News of the household allowance added to outrage over the "gravy train" pay and
perks on offer to EU officials.

The basic salary for an EU Commissioner is just over GBP 12,000 a month, rising
to almost GBP 13,500 if he becomes vice-president.

Other benefits available include round-the-clock access to chauffeur-driven
limos, expenses for staying out of town, a sizeable staff and a GBP
1,300-a-month entertainment allowance.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party's MEPs in the European
Parliament, said last night: "As a European Commissioner you get allowances for
virtually everything. The advertised salary of GBP 145,000 would appear to be
just the tip of the iceberg.

"There is a chauffeur, a living allowance, allowances if you have children in
full-time education, and a very special tax deal where you certainly don't pay
40 per cent tax and 10 per cent National Insurance.

"Whichever way you look at it the Commission is a great rest home for failed
domestic politicians.

"It's extremely lucrative and it's just yet another example of the financial
excess of the EU."

But Mr Farage also claimed that the appointment of the colourful Mr Mandelson
would boost Ukip's campaign for Britain to leave the EU.

Mr Mandelson was twice forced to quit Government, first due to his undisclosed
home loan from fellow minister Geoffrey Robinson, and later over allegations
concerning the Hinduja passport affair, in which Mr Mandelson was later cleared
of wrongdoing.

"For the euro-sceptic cause it's the best appointment ever so we're thrilled, "
said Mr Farage.

Last week Mr Mandelson said he had been forced out of Government for "unfair and
bogus reasons" and he urged people to "give me a break and be fair-minded".

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               79 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

MEPs are shown how to help themselves to £300,000 a year

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 722 words


BRITAIN'S newly elected MEPs could boost their earnings to £300,000 a year,
according to a leaflet aimed at helping them to maximise their expenses.

An MEP's basic salary is £56,000 a year -the same as a Westminster MP but by
making full use of travel, attendance, staff and office allowances, it can be
increased more than fivefold. The pamphlet advises MEPs that they can have some
allowances paid directly into their bank accounts without having to provide any
receipts to show how the money was spent. It also advises putting a member of
the family on the payroll, so you can keep all the staff allowances.

The leaflet, How to Maximise Your Expenses: Advice to New Members of the
European Parliament, was produced by the Social Affairs Unit, the Eurosceptic
think tank.

It is based on interviews with existing MEPs and their staff, and written as a
satirical letter from an old-timer in the Parliament making sure that new comers
uphold its traditions.

The 732 MEPs cost an average of £1 million a year to maintain, about 2 times as
much as an MP at Westminster, and 13 times as much as a member of the House of
Lords.

One of the most popular allowances is the travel allowance, which is supposed to
pay for weekly trips from home to Brussels or Strasbourg, the two seats of the
European Parliament. "The great merit of the travel allowance is that it
prevents the submission of claims on the basis of actual air fares. You simply
hand in your boarding pass and receive a sum calculated on the basis of
kilometrage. In nearly all instances this amounts to a sum in excess of business
class," says the leaflet, adding that it can earn an MEP up to Pounds 600 a
week, or about £30,000 a year. Some reform-minded MEPs have tried to claim only
the actual amount they spend on travel, but the parliamentary authorities have
rejected that saying there is no mechanism in place to make such payments.

MEPs can also claim a Euro 262 (£180) daily attendance allowance, nicknamed the
"siso" fee, short for "sign in and sod off". The pamphlet advises: "In order to
claim this it is merely necessary to sign in before 10am on any or all of the
155 days on which the European Parliament sits; there is no need to speak in a
debate or even to stay."

MEPs can also claim a staff allowance of £8,500 a month, but they can use it to
pay whoever they want. "The important thing to remember about the staff
allowance is that it is entirely up to you how you spend it. No receipts are
necessary and there is no audit. Around 70 per cent of MEPs demonstrate their
commitment to the family by employing a wife, husband or other member of their
family as a secretary or assistant," the leaflet says.

MEPs get two free offices supplied by the Parliament -including bathrooms and
beds -but they also get general office expenses of £2,540 for supplies and
equipment. "This system is not subject to audit and you may, if you wish, have
this paid directly into your account," the leaflet says.

MEPs can claim a £35-a-week taxi allowance for when the chauffeur limousine
service closes at 10pm. However, the drawback of this allowance is you do
actually have to spend the money before you can claim it.

Many MEPs openly claim as much as they are legally allowed to on expenses. The
UK Independence Party has an official policy of claiming the maximum and then
using the money to promote its cause.

The advice given, although written by a Eurosceptic think-tank, is similar to
that collected by the BBC in drawing up tips for new MEPs from old ones.

Elmar Brok, a leading German MEP, told the BBC: "The very first thing you should
do when you arrive in the European Parliament is sign the attendance register
(this is necessary to receive the allowance for attending sessions). Don't miss
out on the lovely twelfth-floor restaurant in the Paul-Henri Spaak building (one
of the Parliament buildings in Brussels)."

EASY MONEY:

* An MEP's basic salary is £56,000 a year

* The travel allowance is based on distance, not air fares. MEPs can receive up
to £600 a week from it

* They can claim a staff allowance of £8,500 a month. Most MEPs employ a member
of their family

* MEPs can claim £180 for every day that they sign in at Parliament. They can
claim up to £35 a week for taxis


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               80 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

For the Lib Dems, victory could also be disaster

BYLINE: Oliver Kamm

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1339 words


THIS GENERATION of Liberal Democrats believes it has a rendezvous with destiny.

After the party's by-election successes last month, Charles Kennedy declared
that the rules of engagement for the next election had been overturned; the
Liberal Democrats were poised to overtake the Conservatives. His senior adviser,
Lord Razzall, publicly spoke of a Liberal Democrat government by the end of the
decade.

These comments are a calculated risk. The Liberal-SDP Alliance of the early
1980s suffered lasting damage from David Steel's call for Liberal activists to
"go back to your constituencies and prepare for government". Labour's regional
concentration of support ensured that even under the leadership of Michael Foot
the party was able to retain more than 200 seats. By the mid-1990s, the
historians of the SDP, Ivor Crewe and Anthony King, were reflecting on the
Alliance's "total failure" to overcome the resilience of the party system.

Mr Kennedy reasons that the Conservatives are more vulnerable now than Labour
was then. the scale of anti-Conservative tactical voting in successive elections
has begun to make the electoral system work in the Liberal Democrats' favour,
creating a bedrock of safe seats, while protecting the more marginal ones (in
almost all of which the Tories are the main challenger). Meanwhile, the threat
from the UK Independence Party prevents the Tories from arriving at a workable
compromise on the European question, let alone a pragmatic centrist programme

A realistic minimum expectation of 70-80 seats is a remarkable position for a
party that for much of the postwar period held no more than half a dozen. The
Liberal Democrats hope that this will represent a tipping point, unlike any
other augury of Liberal revival for 75 years, where not only tactical votes but
also underlying loyalties shift decisively. Finally, after all these years, a
Liberal government will be on the way.

This is a seductive prospect for the Liberal Democrats, and it has only one
flaw: unless the party changes fundamentally, power will remain a fantasy.

The reason for this is simple. The emergence of the Liberals as a serious force
changes the way politics is reported and conducted. The greater the plausibility
of the Liberal claim to be a government in waiting, the more intense will be the
scrutiny of its programme and record. That examination will reveal a party
divided. The very act of becoming a contender for power would force a political
realignment that might even split the party altogether.

Charles Kennedy has unquestionably done much to enhance his party's claims to be
taken seriously. He has rectified the most glaring deficiency, a weak Treasury
team expounding an incredible economic programme, by appointing the former Shell
chief economist Vincent Cable to the brief, with David Laws as his deputy. The
most obvious change that Cable has brought to the party's official policy has
been to wean it off a corporatism that could have been fashioned in the 1970s -
"the begging-bowl culture of an industrial, or agricultural, welfare state", as
he has described it.

But the difference between Cable's economic liberalism and his colleagues'
instinctive populism runs much deeper. Under Cable's immediate predecessors,
Malcolm Bruce and Matthew Taylor, the party condemned the Government's fiscal
stance of the late 1990s - when the economy was several years into its post ERM
expansion - as "fiscal flagellation", identifying a supposed "windfall of the
extra funds" that it urged the Chancellor to spend. The old approach is still
deeply embedded in party thinking.

The contrast between the current Treasury team's approach and the instincts of
the party was illustrated at last year's Liberal Democrat assembly. David Laws
used the occasion to challenge party activists. He asked them to consider
whether scrapping user charges for services was the best way to use scarce
financial resources. Meanwhile, the assembly voted to abolish all NHS
prescription charges, and charges for dental checks - a spending commitment of
£900 million - and confirmed its opposition to tuition fees.

The policy on prescription charges was revealing in another way. The party's
then health spokesman, Evan Harris, maintained that scrapping charges would in
part be self-financing, as there would be efficiency savings from scrapping also
the costs of collecting the charges. Yet the party proposes increased income tax
and intends to spend all the revenues. It assumes, in other words, that removing
health charges will dispose of a "deadweight loss" associated with collection,
while increasing tax rates - and therefore collecting the extra revenues - will
be costless. Too much Liberal Democrat policy remains incompatible in this way.

On foreign policy, the party has clearly benefited from its opposition to the
Iraq war. But Charles Kennedy - in Boston last week to observe the Democrat
convention - should be aware that his party's arguments will not be welcome in
any US Administration. President Bush's doctrine of pre-emption is not an
idiosyncrasy of hardline unilateralists - "throwing a lighted match into a
barrel of oil", as Baroness Williams of Crosby, the Lib Dem leader in the Lords,
has put it - but a widespread recognition that threats to the security of the
Western democracies require a more decisive response than international
institutions are likely to provide.

Mr Kennedy's insistence that the role of a British government is to be a "candid
friend" to the US, providing a cautionary "tap on the shoulder", is liable to be
taken in Washington for the undiplomatic presumption that it is. A more serious
commitment to advance the values of liberal democratic internationalism will, as
a matter of course, require greater openness to American arguments for choking
off support for terrorism by confronting the autocracies that foment it.

In economic, social and foreign policy, the Liberal Democrats are, in varying
degrees, confronting the dilemma of a third party presenting itself as more than
a repository of protest votes. Yet where the Liberal Democrats have made most
progress in providing a distinctive and coherent liberal position, they has done
so on a narrow base.

Dissent is usually vocalised by those on the fringes of the party. Lord Greaves,
the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman in the Lords, has castigated Cable,
Laws and the Home Affairs spokesman Mark Oaten as "pseudo-Blairites with little
following in the wider party". But no one at a senior level seriously believes
that real dissent is confined to these fringe people.

This was demonstrated clearly during the recent Iraq conflict. The party's
opposition to the war was articulated lucidly by its foreign affairs spokesman,
Menzies Campbell. Other MPs demonstrated a disconcerting extremism. One
frontbencher even began deploying comparisons between Britain and America and
the Axis powers in the Second World War.

To the extent that the Liberal Democrats improve their electoral standing, these
fissures will become more obvious. If the party is to make the transition to an
alternative party of government it will have to confront them.

Yet even if such boldness is displayed, there will be a problem. For the
exertions will not have a unifying effect. Former Lib Dem leader Paddy Ashdown
wrote to Tony Blair in 1998 to urge a "reshaping of the Centre Left as the first
step in a more general reshaping of politics in Britain". He omitted to mention,
though surely must have anticipated, that as well as isolating the extremes of
Left and Right, such a venture would necessarily detach him and his senior
parliamentarians from the party they led.

The irony of the party's long campaign for the realignment of British politics
is that it may rent the Liberal Democrats asunder. For years the Liberals have
dreamt of being taken seriously. Now that their moment may be arriving, being
taken seriously may prove to be the last thing they want.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               81 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 August 1, 2004

KERRY SERVES UP A CAUSE FOR BLAIR'S LABOUR REBELS

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 764 words


Harvard sQUARE this weekend features a lot of Labour Party faces who just happen
to be on holiday in Massachusetts during the same week as their political
soulmates met at the Democratic National Convention in Boston.Not that anyone
would defy Tony Blair's clear orders and head to the event. They wouldn't want
to be seen discussing the downfall of George W Bush. It's just that the East
Coast of America is so blissful this time of year.The normal Labour drill is to
cross the pond, steal all the good ideas, and apply them in Britain. But the
current Democrat project is rather less useful to Tony Blair: How to Depose a
Leader Who Misled the Public about Weapons of Mass Destruction.John Kerry has a
problem. He supported the war, but nonetheless needs to tap the huge groundswell
of anti-war fervour which is rising in the US with every addition to its death
toll. He faces a common struggle with the Conservative Party.How to play both
cards? Last week, the Democrats forged an answer: drape yourself in patriotic
clothes and pledge that you would defend the country, but never mislead the
public about war. Accuse the government of lying.Its an exercise in rhetoric,
but in America - like in Britain - so many millions feel deceived over the war
and will take any old excuse to vote against the government. The Democrats are
being disingenuous, but their ploy may work. If it does, they will have devised
a weapon which can be used by the Conservatives at the general election next
year. So now they must walk the same delicate tightrope, is it time for a
Tory-Democrat alliance? It would not be the first time. Winston Churchill's
friendship with Franklin D Roosevelt shaped history: Harold Macmillan and John F
Kennedy were also close. Even now, the Democrats propose a far lower tax burden
than the Tories do.Links between the Tories and the Republicans have been
strained by their dismay at President Bush's profligate public spending, his
tariffs over steel and textiles and his relaxed attitude to Mexican migration.So
which senior Tory is here to consolidate this growing harmonisation of
interests? The Conservatives seem to have sent none of their high-fliers to this
hugely instructive convention, missing all the good tricks.Not so Robin Cook.
The former Labour Foreign Secretary has also been darting around Harvard Square
- mindful that, if Mr Bush loses the White House over Iraq, it would do the
morale of his fellow Labour rebels no harm at all. Indeed, if John Kerry wins
the presidency, the Prime Minister would be almost alone in believing that the
prospectus for war was entirely honest. Even the White House would call him a
liar. Mr Kerry has practically started already. When he told Democrats that he
would not "mislead the nation into war", it is hard to argue that this charge
does not apply to Mr Blair. This is a theme which will only grow in coming
months.With a UK general election due in May next year, the Tories would have
ample time to study the tactics of a Kerry victory. It's easy to see why Mr
Blair is reluctant to send too many of his finest brains to help.Hartlepool
disunitedSO why shouldn't Blair join Mr Bush and bring the UK general election
forward to November? The European Policy Forum last week published 12 reasons
why this is a better option than waiting until next May.By far the most
important factor is house prices. The upwards march of interest rates only
accelerates the day of reckoning: now that Britain is £1 trillion in debt, there
is an almighty hammer to fall. At every disaster Mr Blair has encountered, he
has been saved by prosperity. The combination of cheap money and equity
withdrawal have proven a never ending supply of get-out-of-jail-free cards.It is
practical to for Mr Blair go the country at the same time as Mr Bush: so why
hedge his bets? The logic is seductive, but the machinery simply isn't there -
the manifesto isn't complete and too many people are too far away on holiday now
for this to be an option.The timing debate in the Labour Party is when to call
the Hartlepool by-election to replace Peter Mandelson, who is quitting the House
of Commons to become Britain's sole European Commissioner.The Hartlepool
electorate are capable of surprise, having elected a man in a monkey suit as
their first-ever mayor two years ago. The anti-Euro UK Independence Party is,
therefore, a serious contender.One option is to hold the election on the
Wednesday of the Conservative Party's annual conference in October, serving up a
Tory defeat on the day Mr Howard rises to address his troops.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                               82 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

MANDELSON ALLY TO BE CHOSEN FOR HARTLEPOOL POLL

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 404 words


Patrick Diamond, political adviser to Tony Blair and friend of Peter Mandelson,
is expected to be chosen this week to be Labour's candidate in what could be the
longest and nastiest by-election of the year.

If he emerges as Hartlepool's new MP, it will be a sign that Mr Mandelson's
legacy lives on, though he himself will have moved to Brussels to be a European
Commissioner. Mr Diamond, 29, was employed by Mr Mandelson as his political
adviser in the Northern Ireland Office. He now advises Mr Blair on education.

Labour Party managers are considering holding the Hartlepool by-election on 7
October. That would infuriate the Conservatives, because it would clash with
their annual conference in Bournemouth.

The earliest possible date would be 30 September, but that has been ruled out
because it would clash with the Labour Party conference.

The Liberal Democrats claim that their recent by-election successes in Brent
East and Leicester South show that they can win Hartlepool, despite the 14,571
majority bequeathed by Mr Mandelson.

Privately, Labour organisers admit that there is a high risk they will lose.
They are hoping the UK Independence Party, which did well in Hartlepool in June,
will put up a candidate and split the "protest" vote. The Conservatives are
facing the grim prospect that they might be pushed into fourth place.

The risk of defeat appeared to be preventing high-profile candidates from
putting their names forward last week. Mo O'Toole, former MEP for the
North-east, decided not to run, and it was reported that Mr Diamond had also
pulled out - but by the end of the week, members of the Hartlepool Labour Party
were receiving phone calls from him asking for their support.

This has prompted complaints that somebody must have supplied Mr Diamond with a
list of names and numbers of local party members - information that has not been
made available to other would-be Labour candidates.

Those said to be interested in the seat include the former MEP David Bowe, the
former Hartlepool council leader Russell Hart, and local party members Ian
Wright and Pam Hargreaves.

The Labour leader on Hartlepool council, Steve Wallace, is said to be backing Mr
Diamond, although he has not ruled out being the Labour candidate himself.

One senior party figure said: "In true Peter fashion, it's dripping in
Machiavellian plots here, and nothing is what it seems."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               83 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 August 1, 2004

Surely nobody could be worse than Mandy

BYLINE: HARRY BLACKWOOD

SECTION: NE2; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 883 words


PETER MANDELSON has hardly had time to choose the chintz curtains for his
Brussels lovenest but already his departure has sparked an eruption of
skulduggery in his constituency for which the king of spin himself would happily
take credit.

The Hartlepool by-election is rapidly turning into a circus, with a huge list of
has-beens, wannabes and never-will-bes suggesting they have the credentials to
take over from Mandy. But it's the goings-on in the Labour camp that I find
enthralling.

I hear that Mandy's mate, Downing Street adviser Patrick Diamond, who is being
tipped for the seat, has spent more time in Hartlepool over the past six months
than Mandelson himself. Now it seems the local party could be revolting and may
not be ready to accept an outsider being imposed on them again.

But, while a number of activists are pushing for a local person to get the
nomination, one senior party official admitted last week: 'There is no one of
the right calibre.' It's a shocking admission. Surely after Mandelson anything's
an improvement.

But I've got news for whoever gets the nod for the safe Labour seat you were
really only the second choice.

Behind the scenes all the stops were pulled out the week before last to get
Middlesbrough Mayor Ray Mallon. Ever since Mallon's landslide victory in the
mayoral election, when he humiliated the Labour candidate, the former detective
has been wooed by a succession of Labour bigwigs.

But while Blair and his cohorts would have liked nothing more than to arrange a
membership card of convenience for Mallon, he made it clear last week he is not
available.

So as Labour scratches around to find the right person to win a by-election that
scares the pants off them, the contenders should be aware of the poisoned
chalice that awaits.

The deeply unpopular Mandelson managed to win by a whopping 14,571 last time, so
defeat for Labour is unthinkable. But if the unthinkable happens, the excuses
will have to be: 'Poor calibre local candidate' or ' Southern import parachuted
in'. What a choice to have to make.

Shame on these 'I'm all right Jack' councillors

ALL over Redcar and Cleveland council-owned properties are crying out for
repair.

Years of neglect mean that overall repair bill runs into millions and it's money
the borough council simply doesn't have.

One building desperate for work is the council's own Town Hall at Eston, where
repairs totalling Pounds 850,000 are required. The council proposed last week
that this work should not be carried out. So, will they instead be spending the
money on repairs to council houses or installing central heating in homes that
lack it? Certainly not.

They are planning to replace the tatty Eston Town Hall with a brand new
threestorey office block at Pounds 3.6 million.

Expecting a backlash from residents, the coalition-run council announced the new
building would mean just a few pence extra on council tax bills.

Oh, that's all right then.

I HAVE a shocking confession to make that causes me great embarrassment and has
the potential to ruin my credibility. The UK Independence Party may have set
their hearts on Robert Kilroy-Silk fighting the Hartlepool by-election, but a
few months ago they sounded out ME as their candidate at the General Election.

I agree wholeheartedly with some of UKIP's political aims, but why would anyone
think I'd risk my integrity by being associated with them?

Having attended some of their events I'm afraid they strike me as a rabid bunch
of rightwing loonies who need to be prescribed something to calm them down.

For those who were kind enough to ask, you can take that as a no.

Ladies, you're panty animals

LAST weekend's Tom Jones concert at one of the North's top stately homes was
somewhat spoilt by the lousy weather.

Staff at Castle Howard were left cursing the British climate for not being very
kind to the 6,000 fans who turned up.

But it was the litter pickers employed for the clear-up who had most to complain
about.

The workers expected to be filling their bags with discarded Coke cans, crisp
packets and fag boxes. Instead they spent most of the morning picking up ladies'
knickers that had been thrown at Jones the Voice, pictured above.

A friend who went to the gig tells me that most of the women in the audience
were well over 50. Old enough to know better than to throw their drawers at a
stranger? Obviously not.

THE latest obesity figures show that the North East has more than its fair share
of fat lasses. So spare a thought for the men who will be taking part in the
annual wife-carrying race at Sedgefield racecourse next Friday. While success in
the half-furlong dash would seem to demand a skinny missus, there is an added
dilemma for men taking part . . . the winner gets his wife's weight in beer.

MILLIONS of pounds have been spent promoting Newcastle as a city of culture.

But it seems the attempt to put Newcastle on the map has failed. . . at least
with the Oxford and Cambridge Examination Board. This year's GCSE Geography
paper contained a map which had Newcastle positioned smack bang in the middle of
Yorkshire. Well, these Geordies are getting so sophisticated and cosmopolitan
these days they might as well be down south.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               84 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 1, 2004

Blair's Tory policies have failed: rest assured that ours won't: Former Foreign
Secretary Malcolm Rifkind argues that Michael Howard must exploit Labour's
divisions

BYLINE: Malcolm Rifkind

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 733 words


THE MOST significant political news of the last week was not about Iraq, nor
even about Peter Mandelson overtaking Lazarus for the reincarnation record. It
was the revelation that, in the past few years, membership of the Labour Party
has collapsed. It is now almost half what it was when Tony Blair came to power
and is lower than at any time since records began in 1928.

When Blair became Labour leader 10 years ago, he identified growth in party
membership as crucial to his ambition to make Labour the natural party of
government. Not only has he failed but Michael Howard has seen a growth in Tory
membership of 40,000 since he took over a mere eight months ago.

This is not just a battle about statistics. Political parties need foot
soldiers. It is no surprise that Labour activists have deserted in droves. They
did not campaign for 18 years in the wilderness to see a Labour Prime Minister
as best buddy of the most right-wing Republican President for a generation. They
did not vote for their government to see it reject the UN and take the country
into war. And they have no intention of working at the next general election for
a leader who imposes upon them PFI and public-private partnerships.

So Howard can be more comfortable with the political mood than his critics
imply. He may have had a bad week, but Tony Blair has had a bad three months.
The next General Election is still wide open.

How should the Conservatives use the time available between now and whenever
Blair goes to the polls? I have no doubt that, with imagination, sensitivity and
political skill, we can turn Blair's supposed strengths to our advantage.

The NHS and our schools are the chosen battlegrounds of the political parties.
Blair has acknowledged that only the involvement of the private sector can
provide the improvements in our hospitals and schools that are essential. He has
admitted that only meaningful choice for patients and parents will transform the
NHS and state education.

What he is, in effect, saying is that the facts of life are Tory. It is
fundamental to Conservative belief that quality will be provided only when the
public has choice; and that choice will be possible only when the massive state
bureaucracies are broken up. But, while Blair may now believe that, the Labour
Party loathes the idea.

The result, as the public can see, is that he cannot deliver the necessary
reforms, except at the margins. On foundation hospitals, top-up fees and PFI,
the Government has to make so many concessions to its own backbenchers that the
policy is emasculated and the public sees little benefit.

That is why the NHS, with around over 30 per cent more resources, has only been
able to improve services to patients by around 5 per cent. A Tory Government
would deliver real reforms in the NHS and education based on public-private
partnership.

On Europe, Blair's strategy had been to try to portray the Tories as extremists
with a secret agenda of taking Britain out of the EU. The allegation was always
absurd but Ukip has sunk Blair's strategy and done the Tories a favour.

On one side are Labour and the Lib Dems, wanting us to abolish the pound, join
the single currency and endorse the new Constitution. On the other side are Ukip
calling for us to leave the EU. The Tory policy of remaining within the EU but
seeking to reform it into a looser union is exactly what the British public
would prefer.

I hope the Tories will also outflank Labour on civic liberties and personal
freedom. Britain has the most intolerant Home Secretary we have had for a
generation. Under Labour we have people imprisoned without trial. We are all to
be required to carry identity cards though that will not have the slightest
effect on any terrorist or serious criminal. We are told what sports we can
enjoy, where we are allowed to smoke tobacco, what discipline we can impose on
our children and a whole host of other petty and serious infringements on our
freedom. The Tory party must be seen in the vanguard of the campaign to protect
traditional British freedoms.

The true and noble purpose of politics is to articulate the concerns, the
aspirations and the anger of the people and then to channel the nation's
energies into the reforms required to improve the quality of life and safeguard
our freedom.

The Conservative Party is needed again.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               85 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

Maternity red tape leaves firms holding the baby

BYLINE: Rachel Bridge

SECTION: Business; Business; 11

LENGTH: 818 words


Most readers agree with UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom about the risks of hiring women
of child-bearing age.

OWNERS of small businesses overwhelmingly agree with the views held by UK
Independent party MEP Godfrey Bloom that maternity-leave legislation has the
potential seriously to damage their business.

No less than 78% of small-business owners who responded to our Sunday Times
business online poll said they agreed with comments made by Bloom, MEP for
Yorkshire and the Humber, that no self- respecting small-business man with a
brain would employ a woman of child bearing age.

The poll showed that most of those who agreed with Bloom's comments were owners
of businesses employing between 5 and 50 people.

John Fennell from Cheltenham reflected the views held by many who responded. He
wrote: "The effect of maternity rights could cripple or even kill many small
businesses.

"Not only does that disproportionately penalise the owners of the business, but
it may also cause loss of income or even loss of employment for other members of
staff.

"This and other aspects of the political-correctness pendulum have swung too far
for the good of UK Ltd and the social good in general."

John Felgate from Hitchin, Hertfordshire, highlighted the difficulties faced by
small businesses in getting reimbursed for maternity benefit.

He wrote: "In a business employing only two or three staff, the problems caused
by losing one of those key members for six months are obvious. But what makes it
even worse for very small firms is that the employer has to carry substantial
extra costs, too, just at the time when the business is already struggling to
adjust.

"Maternity pay is provided by the employer and then reclaimed from the Inland
Revenue. But I am waiting for the Revenue to get round to reimbursing my small
business for maternity pay that has accrued over the past five months. And this
is just at the time when I have too few staff to maintain normal turnover."

Chris Pichon in Watford, who runs one of the largest enterprise agencies in
Britain, said that many of the small businesses he deals with regarded the
system as highly unfair.

"We run a number of start-up training programmes in which we touch on employing
staff," he said. "The subject of maternity rights always gets the most reaction.

People -men and women alike -cannot believe the unfairness for small firms in
coping with maternity issues.

"There is no question that Mr Bloom's comments, while being totally politically
incorrect, highlight a considerable problem for small businesses."

One reader, who preferred not to be named, had first-hand experience of the
difficulties caused by maternity leave.

"Small businesses have been regulated to the point that they would be crazy to
employ any woman between 20 and 40 years old," he wrote. "I discriminated in
favour of women and lost everything when two senior directors got pregnant
simultaneously. Both claimed they would be just as effective pregnant. Both
claimed they would take minimum maternity leave. But it proved physically
impossible.

"With two out of four senior managers gone and no means to replace them,
investors pulled the plug and 20 people lost their jobs. I lost my investment."

Many readers highlighted the need to take a wider look at the impact on a small
business of raising a child by employees of both genders.

Claire James from Ruislip, west London, wrote: "Until fathers have the same
rights as women to choose to be their baby's primary carer in the first year,
parenting will be viewed as women's work and mothers will be discriminated
against."

And Hugh Murray from Newmarket wrote: "We need to find a way of balancing the
needs of business against the child- rearing needs of employees -of both
genders.

"A business needs the freedom to choose whether to hold a job open for an
individual of either sex taking parenting leave. It should be able to replace an
individual who wishes to take such leave if the company judges this to be in the
interests of the remaining stakeholders in the business."

But there were some voices of opposition to Bloom's views, with owners arguing
that the short-term cost of maternity leave is outweighed by the long-term
benefits.

il Thomas from Peterborough wrote: "All five of the employees in my business are
of child-bearing age and we have just sent out an offer letter to another. Good
staff are so hard to come by that we have gone out of our way to exceed expected
benefits in the whole parenthood area.

"Our people are judged on the job that they do, rather than the hours that they
work. This in turn has led to a very loyal team who regularly turn out at
weekends with children and family to help with office moves and sponsorship
events."

* If you would like to contribute to this debate, post your views at
www.timesonline.co.uk/sme


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Small Business

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               86 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

Washed up

BYLINE: Mrs Mills

SECTION: Features; Style; 58

LENGTH: 72 words


I do my utmost to load my dishwasher in an orderly and efficient manner, but my
other half insists on disrupting the load. I wouldn't mind, but she has a
perfectly usable sink of her own. How can I get her to understand?

LLO, Anglesey.

Join the UKIP.

Send problems to: Mrs Mills, The Sunday Times, 1 Pennington Street, London E98
1ST, or mrs.mills@sunday-times.co.uk. No correspondence can be entered into


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Mills solves your problems

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               87 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

Leave the book and get a life, JK

BYLINE: Fiona McCade

SECTION: Features; Ecosse; 4

LENGTH: 609 words


You might not think that any talented, happily married, glowingly pregnant,
best-selling half-billionaire would need me to defend her, but my protective
instincts have been kindled by the mean treatment handed out to poor JK Rowling.

Everybody, back off and leave the girl alone. The moment she announced that
she's having a third baby, the howls and groans came thick and fast. The first
reaction of many devotees was exemplified by one newspaper columnist, whose
children had gasped: "How on earth will she find time to write the next Harry
Potter book?"

You can imagine the talk in the internet chat rooms. "Rowling is pregnant
again," sneered one website, "Potter fans make plans to read final two books in
their nursing homes."

Good grief, has the woman not done enough already? Over just five novels she's
restored the art of reading to a generation that seemed lost to the printed word
and she's conducted herself with a grace rarely seen in public life.

Granted, many fans were decent enough to wish her well, but this pattern always
repeats itself whenever JK dares to live a little, and she knows this, because
she felt the need to tell her pouting adherents not to worry. "I'm sure you're
really happy for me," she ventured, "but I know you really want that book, so
let me reassure you ... I don't foresee any baby-related delays."

Rowling has already disproved Cyril Connolly's assertion that "there is no more
sombre enemy of good art than the pram in the hallway". Being a man of course,
Connolly probably couldn't multi-task in this way, but even though Rowling has
proved (twice) that she can, murmurs persist that her life is getting in the way
of our fun.

Are we turning into a nation of Godfrey Blooms -the UKIP MEP who recently
asserted that "nobody in their right mind would employ a woman of child bearing
age"? Does this grumbling imply that in an ideal world, no woman of child
bearing age should be allowed to write bestselling books in case she selfishly
deprives readers of their next hardback fix?

Maybe we should stick with male authors, to avoid disappointment? Nobody ever
finds themselves drumming their fingers waiting for the next Andy McNab.

Luckily for Rowling, nobody is suggesting she give up the day job and start
cleaning behind the fridge more often. But still she faces this almost
intolerable pressure.

Maybe it's time her fan stopped pulling at her skirts and spared a thought for
her real children, who will no doubt be relieved when the last novel is
finished. Then they will no longer have to share her with millions of spoilt
brats.

oI bow to nobody in my loathing of smoking, but even I can't imagine how a
perfume can induce anybody to take up the filthy habit.

According to the anti-smoking group Ash, an eau-de-cologne called Feuilles de
Tabac -smelling of fresh cigars and on sale at Jenners in Edinburgh for Pounds
48 -is likely to "glamorise smoking" and will cause wearers to "stink".

Not so. Fresh tobacco has an absolutely divine scent. Before and during smoking,
my husband's pipe tobacco smells delicious. It's not until the ash is in the bin
that it starts to reek. Cigarettes are worse, but that's because they're stuffed
with additives.

If you treated pot-pourri with vile chemicals, set fire to it, then sniffed the
remains, I doubt it would smell particularly pleasant either, which is why the
cologne has nothing to do with ash and everything to do with the gorgeously
scented tobacco plant itself.

Ash needs to concentrate on the real villains, the cigarette manufacturers.

Unless, of course, you can die of passive perfume.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               88 of 89 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 1, 2004

KILROY'S ALL TALK

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 159 words


KILROY-SILK no sooner gets to the European parliament than he wants its debates
to last longer! All because he can't persuade his own political group to give
him more than 90 seconds of its allotted time to speak in a debate that lasted
four-and a-half-hours (Kilroy-Silk, July 25).

He could speak at the law-making parliamentary committees where the real work is
done, but they're away from the TV cameras, so I doubt we will see much of him.

Anyway, he would run the risk of learning that the MEPs from 25 nations working
to find shared solutions to the common problems we face may be doing a good job.

If long-winded Italians and Greeks can express their views in less than two
minutes you would have thought that Kilroy-Silk could do the same.

Just how long does it take to put over the UKIP argument - you're foreign.

I don't like you and I'm going to play by myself?

Chris Davies, Leader, British Liberal Democrat MEPs

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               89 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

LETTER: READER'S LETTER

BYLINE: GEORGE BAKER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 113 words


THE furore that followed remarks by Godfrey Bloom of the UKIP regarding the
employment of women of child-bearing age was predictable. Let anyone even hint
that it might be preferable to employ a man rather than a woman, and all manner
of wrath is heaped on them.

The words chosen were unfortunate, but what he was trying to say was that
legislation has swung so far that employing a woman who claims maternity benefit
can mean financial ruin for many small employers. Still, I suppose he deserves
all he gets as anyone who is supposed to be a spokesman for any organisation
should be capable of choosing his words with more care.

George Baker,

Cheltenham, Glos.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.
