
                               1 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 31, 2004, Saturday

A TERRIFYING PROSPECT FOR THE DEPRESSED TORIES;
 THE WEEK IN POLITICS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Michael Howard: Will fight pressure to tack right

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 873 words


"AND THEY said the opinion polls were bad under me," Iain Duncan Smith has been
telling friends lately with a cheeky smile. I suppose we can hardly blame him:
the Great Tory Recovery under Michael Howard appears to have hit the buffers and
his MPs left Westminster for their summer break in a familiar state of
depression.

The rise of the UK Independence Party, third place in two by-elections, policy
launches eclipsed by the Government's five-year plans, a disastrous flip-flop
over Iraq and an unexpectedly strong recovery by Tony Blair all contributed to
Tory gloom.

The real significance of this week's story about the "Notting Hill set" of
rising Tory stars supposedly trying to hijack the party is the fragility it
exposed within the Tory ranks. Much more serious is the YouGov poll in
yesterday's Daily Telegraph suggesting the party is doing worse under Mr Howard
than poor old IDS. "Anybody but the Tories" was how the paper summarised it.

It all looked so different when Mr Howard was crowned party leader last
November. Morale was revived, unity restored. For the first time since Thatcher,
Tory troops had a strong leader they respected and behind whom they would gladly
march.

Mr Blair, twice pitted against Mr Howard when he was a cabinet minister,
recognised that he would be a "good attack machine". He knew the spotlight at
Prime Minister's Questions each Wednesday would now be on him rather than
whether Freddy the Frog popped up in IDS's throat. Since last November, Downing
Street has begun serious preparations for PMQs on Tuesday instead of leaving it
until Wednesday morning.

Mr Howard landed some early punches on Mr Blair, but the Prime Minister believes
he has now got the measure of his opponent. The Blair analysis is that Mr Howard
has missed a chance to modernise his party because he has stuck with the
policies he inherited from IDS. Although the ineptly- named "passports" for
health and education have been tweaked, Labour can still portray them as giving
a state subsidy to patients and pupils who go private.

At least one senior Tory warned the incoming leader that the policies would not
impress voters because of the "privatisation" charge. But Mr Howard kept them.
This gives the impression the Tories have not "moved on" from the party so
roundly rejected in 1997.

The Tories are also in a mess on spending. To try to neutralise the issue of
public services, they have pledged to match Labour on health and education. But
that means a freeze on other budgets, allowing the Government to cut defence
spending but to guarantee it will outspend the Tories. Gordon Brown knows an
open goal when he sees one and his Budget and spending review were shaped by
Tory policy.

Surely, the lesson from New Labour is that to show the voters it has changed, a
party must make a decisive break with the past. Mr Blair did it by abandoning
Clause 4. "We need some seismic shocks," admits one shadow minister. But the
Tories have not shocked the voters yet. Perhaps their equivalent of Clause 4
will be a pre-election pledge of big tax cuts, financed by cutting government
"waste". The shock element might be to target them at poor rather than the rich.

Would it work? I am not so sure. The voters may have "moved on" since 1997; they
backed Mr Brown's hike in national insurance to boost health spending.

Mr Brown believes Tory tax cuts would not convince the voters, as Labour would
shine the spotlight on the spending cuts needed to finance them. He recalls
that, in 1992, Labour thought it could woo people by raising pensions and child
benefit. But the voters - and the media - focused on the taxes needed to pay for
it.

Mr Howard is a big enough man not to be blown off course by "mutterings" against
him. Tory MPs know he is the best man to lead them into the election, whatever
happens next. Some suspect the party needs radical surgery and a younger leader,
not another middle-aged man in a dark suit such as Sir Malcolm Rifkind. Unlike
William Hague and IDS, Mr Howard will not desert the public services battlefield
by tacking to the right. He will certainly speak out on crime, immigration and
Europe but he will continue to fight Labour on the centre ground.

The talk this summer amongst Team Howard is about holding nerves. The party's
private polling suggests that, while the Tories have not wooed the public, they
are not as hated as the recent election results suggest. The unpopularity of Mr
Blair and his government means there is still an opening.

Their problem is another party trying to grab it. The Liberal Democrats are
becoming a serious threat to Labour and the Tories. In the autumn, they will
portray themselves as the "real challengers" to Labour on the grounds the Tories
cannot win the election.

If a resurgent Charles Kennedy succeeds, the Tories might suffer from the same
"can't win" syndrome that has long afflicted the third party in British
politics. After all, it happened in Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill.
Writ large, it is a chilling prospect for the Tories. At the general election,
the voters will probably decide not to change the Government. But they could
start the process of changing the opposition.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 31, 2004, Saturday

Monkey business to fill Mandelson's seat

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 844 words


David Charter reviews the colourful line-up in Hartlepool for what could be the
liveliest political drama of the year.

IT HAS a colourful cast of characters and great plot potential. But the monkey,
the pirate, the martial arts expert and the chat show host is not a remake of
The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.

It is the line-up poised to make the Hartlepool byelection to replace Peter
Mandelson the liveliest political drama this year.

Over the next three months, the proud and insular fishing port will become the
northeast battleground for probably the last test of public opinion at the
ballot box before the next general election.

The three main parties are desperate to avoid the fate of the proverbial
Hartlepool monkey -shipwrecked there during the Napoleonic wars and hanged by
suspicious townsfolk as a French spy.

But in the seat being vacated by the controversial architect of new Labour,
there is a feeling that almost anything could happen. Robert Kilroy-Silk, MEP
for the UK Independence Party and former television presenter, is considering
standing to capitalise on his party's strong showing in Hartlepool in European
and local elections. The fate of the French monkey shows that Euroscepticism
runs deep there.

Phil Berriman, a self-styled pirate whose off-shore offlicence sold alcohol and
cigarettes to anyone who could reach his yacht in the North Sea near Hartlepool,
may throw his hat into the ring. He wants to give free drugs to addicts in the
town to stop them stealing.

Even the Lib Dems have a colourful candidate: Jody Dunn, a 35-year-old
multilingual barrister, mother of four and judo brown belt from nearby
Darlington.

Overseeing it all will be the town's mayor, H'Angus the Monkey, the local
football club mascot whose election two years ago proved Hartlepool's political
independence. His very presence in this election means that the main three
parties can take nothing for granted.

H'Angus, who soon dumped the monkey suit to administer as plain Stuart Drummond,
30, says that Hartlepudlians will take a close look at the personalities behind
party rosettes.

Like him, a lot of voters "just want someone who is going to have the town's
best interests at heart, someone who ideally lives or works in the town, who
knows what the people of Hartlepool are like and can understand the issues. That
could be a Labour, Liberal Democrat or Monster Raving Loony candidate."

Like Mr Drummond, who has turned out to be a rather competent administrator,
Hartlepool defies attempts to be pigeonholed. It has a nuclear power station
near the sea and giant wind turbines in the hills behind. It has rows of
run-down terraced houses overlooked by exclusive developments of executive
homes. It has a depressed fishing industry and a marina full of yachts.

Thanks to its new luxury homes, the town recorded the highest average house
price rise last year -59 per cent -while 1,500 terraced houses are empty or
derelict.

Younger Hartlepudlians work in call centres or commute to jobs in Newcastle upon
Tyne, Middlesbrough or Sunderland.

It is a town in slow transition to a better future but suffering with problems
associated with areas of high unemployment such as diabetes, obesity, teenage
pregnancies and drug abuse. Paul Napier, the editor of the Hartlepool Mail,
said: "Hartlepool is an extremely politicised town. A large number of people
elsewhere probably do not know who their MP or mayor is but you would have to be
pretty daft in Hartlepool not to know that Peter Mandelson is your MP and Stuart
Drummond is the mayor.

"If I were someone who wanted to make a name for myself or bring publicity to a
cause, I would be standing as an independent candidate in Hartlepool because the
whole country is going to be here. I would expect there to be a very wide
field."

The Liberal Democrats have hit the ground running, having monitored Hartlepool
since the first rumours of Mr Mandelson's new job as European commissioner last
November. But they face a tough challenge in gaining the 22 per cent swing
needed to overhaul Labour's 14,571 majority.

Senior Labour figures are pushing for a local candidate, fearing that a party
apparatchik will not succeed. Steve Wallace, Mr Mandelson's agent and head of
the Labour group on Hartlepool council, said: "My own belief is that they will
be looking for someone with connections here.

"They warmed to Peter from the start but he is a unique personality and I am not
certain that other people from outside the region who do not have contacts with
the town could carry it off like Peter did."

Tom Watson, the 37-year-old MP for West Bromwich credited with saving Birmingham
Hodge Hill, is already masterminding the Labour campaign.

Perhaps the Conservative Party has the most to lose, facing the stark prospect
of coming fourth behind Labour, the Lib Dems and the UKIP.

The Tories appear slow off the mark in Hartlepool and their 2001 candidate, who
came second to Mr Mandelson, is likely to stand as an independent.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 30, 2004, Friday

Verdict on the Tories: Out of touch, stuck in the past, lacking leadership and a
sense of direction

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1029 words

CONSERVATIVE supporters have a right to be puzzled. The Conservatives in recent
months have changed their leader and their policies, and, by wide margins,
voters prefer the Tories to Labour on high-profile issues such as Europe,
immigration and law and order.

Yet the Conservatives continue to struggle. They finish third in by-elections.
They trail or, at best, pull just ahead in the opinion polls. Whatever they say
or do, nothing seems to matter. YouGov's latest survey for The Daily Telegraph
goes some way towards providing an explanation. It seems that millions of voters
have simply gone off the Tory party. The Tories are no longer taken seriously or
seen as relevant.

The Conservatives won 32 per cent of the popular vote at the 1997 general
election and 33 per cent in 2001. According to YouGov, they are yet again on 33
per cent. They have made no sustained progress over the past half-decade and are
actually worse off now than when Iain Duncan Smith was leader.

Labour is also struggling - now on only 34 per cent compared with 42 per cent at
the last general election - but the beneficiaries are not the Conservatives but
the Liberal Democrats, up from 19 per cent three years ago to 23 per cent now,
and assorted minor parties, whose combined total is currently 11 per cent, up
three points since 2001. Support for the UK Independence Party stands at six per
cent.

The verdict of millions of unaligned voters is thus unmistakable: "Anybody but
the Tories."

Contrary to fashionable opinion, the present Tory leader is almost certainly not
to blame. It is true that the gap between Michael Howard and Tony Blair has
opened up in recent weeks. The two men were level-pegging in popular esteem only
three months ago but 32 per cent of YouGov's respondents now think Mr Blair
"would make the best Prime Minister" compared with only 24 per cent who think
the same of Mr Howard.

However, Michael Howard's personal standing still eclipses that of William Hague
and Iain Duncan Smith during most of the time they led the party, and Mr
Howard's worst monthly rating so far is still better than Mr Duncan Smith's
best. The fact that the Tories have made no significant progress under four
different leaders in less than a decade suggests - at the very least - that
leadership is not the party's core problem.

With regard to specific issues, last month's YouGov survey showed the
Conservatives well ahead of Labour on Europe, crime, taxation and asylum and
immigration and more or less level-pegging with Labour on education and public
transport. Even on the economy - the Blair Government's strongest suit -
Labour's lead over the Tories is slender. At the moment 34 per cent of voters
reckon Labour would cope best if Britain were in economic difficulties. The
proportion saying the same of the Tories - 30 per cent - is nearly as large.

Against that background, the kind of trouble the Conservatives are in is
probably best captured by a word that is used less often nowadays than it once
was: the party's "image". The Tories' main problem at the moment is simply that
they are the Tories. They fought among themselves and made a mess in the 1990s.
Some two thirds of voters still see them as useless - even as a bit of a joke.

YouGov offered respondents six pairs of contrasting phrases that could apply to
a political party and asked which phrase in each of the pairs struck them as a
fairer description of the Conservative party and then, separately, of Labour.

YouGov's findings - set out in the chart - are bad for Labour but devastating
for the Conservatives. In connection with each of the half-dozen pairs of
phrases, the largest single figure relating to either major party is printed in
bold in the chart. As can be seen, all six of the largest figures are negative -
and five of the six relate to the Tories.

Large proportions - in four cases clear majorities - also take a dim view of the
Labour Party but only once do the Tories beat Labour.

YouGov's findings, taken as a whole, indicate that, while voters have little
confidence in the Blair Government, the Conservatives have so far failed to give
them any reason to think a Tory government under Michael Howard would perform
better.

For example, a majority do not regard Labour as being honest and trustworthy but
a majority also suspect they would not place much trust in the Tories if they
came to power. Asked whether or not they thought the Government had been
"successful in delivering improved standards of living for people like you",
only 28 per cent of YouGov's respondents said they thought it had. However, the
proportion thinking a Tory government would succeed in improving their living
standards was even smaller: 25 per cent.

On the public services, the Tories come out even worse. Only 32 per cent of
voters think the present Government has been "successful on balance in
delivering improved public services in fields such as health and education", but
the proportion thinking the Conservatives would succeed in this area is even
smaller at 23 per cent.

YouGov's findings also testify to a widespread public sense that there is not
much to choose between the two major parties and that in the end it is not of
overwhelming importance which party is in power. As the figures in the chart
headed "The stakes" indicate, more than half of voters (55 per cent) reckon
Conservative and Labour policies are "much of a muchness" at the moment and only
a third (32 per cent) see them as being "very different".

Similarly, those voters believing "it matters a great deal" which party is in
power constitute only 28 per cent of the electorate - a somewhat smaller
proportion than the 30 per cent who reckon that, on the contrary, it "does not
matter very much".

The combination of two major parties both of which are held in low esteem by
voters plus widespread indifference between the two main parties points to a
lacklustre election campaign next time and another low turnout. The
Conservatives' poor image also suggests that Michael Howard is fated to become
the Tories' fourth failed party leader in a row.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               4 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 30, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Needed: a sharp twist of the neck: The cultural life of
Britain is profoundly insular; instead of navel-gazing, or looking enviously to
the US, we should look east

BYLINE: Philip Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 985 words


I asked my 11-year-old child recently to choose where he wanted to go on holiday
this summer: Shanghai or Florida - he's a privileged boy. He chose Shanghai,
without hesitation, even though he's never been to Disneyland. His decision made
me wonder why an 11-year-old showed the kind of curiosity that is missing from
so much official cultural life in Britain.

When I made public my decision to leave the Institute of Contemporary Arts last
week, I told one journalist what I deeply believe, and what my son's judgment
simply highlighted, that the cultural life of Britain remains profoundly and
debilitatingly insular.

I know that to some people this view of Britain will be strange and even
offensive. After all, we're not blind and deaf like Washington DC. In our big
cities, particularly, we have a diverse population, with many histories. And we
no longer have a prime minister - thank God - as we did in the early 90s who
thinks that England is best imagined in terms of warm beer, the sound of ball on
cricket bat and old maids cycling through the mist. Any speech by the present
prime minister and chancellor stresses how outward-looking Britain is, how
important is Britain-in-the-world. But I have increasingly begun to wonder how
outward-looking is the official cultural life of contemporary Britain. Talk of
outward-looking Britain has to be backed by action.

By insularity I'm not thinking of the antics of Ukip, or even the painful
arguments over migration, or the war in Iraq. Insularity is, too often, the
authorised cultural air we breathe. It's on television - where our love affair
with our own domestic life is such that we watch endless makeover shows about
the insides of our own or our neighbour's houses. That has been accompanied by
broadcasters' increasing indifference to the rest of the world. A recent survey
showed that some members of the public believed that Palestinians were occupying
Israeli land and were refugees from Afghanistan.

But insularity also has a grip on other cultural institutions. One blessed film
bureaucrat told a colleague of mine that he wasn't interested in supporting
"small' foreign-language films - even though Mohsen Makhmalbaf's film Kandahar,
distributed by the ICA, outperformed Harry Potter on a screen-by-screen basis.
With honourable exceptions, the theatre in Britain ignores much of the world;
and the British are renowned for their reluctance to read new novels in
translation.

Some parts of the world are not out of bounds within the UK. The US and old
Europe, to quote Donald Rums feld, are acceptable. French films, American art (a
Jasper Johns show just opened in Edinburgh), even a 19th-century Russian
landscape painting show (at the National Gallery in London) are currently
stalking the land.

But where is the sustained curiosity about contemporary Russia, India or China?
When we "do" India, it is in terms of safe Bollywood, rather than the
extraordinary and challenging culture of contemporary Delhi. And contemporary
China, the lives of the great cities of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, is
almost invisible in London. Compare France, where the Pompidou Centre staged a
major contemporary China exhibition in 2003.

My view is that the 21st century is likely to belong to China as much as the
20th century belonged to America and the 19th century to Britain. To visit
Beijing now is like what I imagine visiting Manhattan must have felt like in the
1890s - to encounter a place of extraordinary change and possibility. So, to
ignore contemporary Chinese culture, as Britain does, is to damage Britain's
long-term interests, and more importantly to deprive Britain of an opportunity
to renew itself by engaging with the vibrant cultures of the cities.

What is the explanation for our present insularity? Since we have a "blame
culture" at present, with the prime minister nominating the 60s as the source of
our present disorder, and others the 80s, let me propose the 90s as the source
of our insularity. Every so often Britain goes through a period of self-love.
The 1960s was one such period; the 90s another. In the 60s, too many people
believed that we really were, as Allen Ginsberg comically said, the centre of
the world's consciousness. In the 90s, the hype of Cool Britannia led too many
people to forget there was a world beyond Britain's ports. Once again, Britain
was at the centre of the world - or so we were told by Time and Newsweek, and
who were we to disagree?

So what should we do? For all the Brit talk of "owning" risk and challenge, it
is Beijing rather than anywhere in Britain that has commissioned Zaha Hadid to
make a major building. Ask anyone to name a city in the world that feels like
the future and they will nominate Shanghai. Chinese education in design,
communications, intellectual property and the creative industries is being
transformed. If anyone still needs persuasion that China will be the global key
player as we move through this century, look at the Newsweek cover story of June
21 on how China tamed Bill Gates by allowing piracy to continue until he sued
for peace and agreed to charge modest rates for his software.

There are signs of hope. London has the biggest Chinese population of any city
in Europe and the mayor of London, recognising this, is looking east in
imaginative ways. I am leaving the ICA, which has established its own contacts
with Beijing and Delhi over the past few years, to set up an agency to develop
projects between the UK and China and India. I wouldn't do this if I felt
Britain was doomed to insularity. But when Britain has looked outwards, it has
too often gazed enviously west, at the US. It will take more than a sharp twist
of the neck to look east.

Philip Dodd will be leaving the ICA to set up a consultancy that will develop a
series of projects between the UK and China

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 2004, Friday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 751 words


UKIP eye up vacant Tory HQ for their Westminster base

VLess than a week after the Conservative Party upped sticks and moved to swanky
offices near New Scotland Yard, a potential tenant has already been found for
its historic London headquarters in Smith Square.

The UK Independence Party is currently on the look out for a Westminster base
and - with typical cheekiness - intends to enter negotiations to lease the
building from their political rivals.

The former Tory MP Piers Merchant (above, left) who is the new chief executive
of UKIP, plans to approach the Conservative Party chairman Maurice Saatchi
(above, right) in order to arrange a viewing of the office block. Should it meet
with his approval, the party is ready to move in almost immediately.

"I've already looked at half a dozen places, and walked almost every street in
Westminster looking for a suitable property, but nothing has turned up," says
Merchant. "Now, lo and behold, a perfect building in Smith Square is available.

"It's about time that the place was used by a viable and growing party, rather
than an old and declining one. If they the Tories are letting it through an
agent, their agreement may not allow them to stop us leasing it."

A spokesman for Lord Saatchi said last night that it was "too early to
speculate" about the future of Smith Square. "We only moved last week, and still
haven't come to a decision about what to do with the old place."

When Faria was too hot for Sven

VFARIA ALAM, the secretary at the centre of "Sven-gate", has already admitted to
flings with the England manager, the FA's chief executive, and an (unnamed)
senior FA executive.

Her taste in men goes beyond the football fraternity, though. For Pandora learns
that Alam (left) used to step out with the restaurateur Iqbal Wahab, one of the
most prominent Asian entrepreneurs in London.

Wahab is close to several senior Labour politicians (including John Prescott,
Geoffrey Robinson, and John Reid) who dine at his Cinnamon Club restaurant in
Westminster.

"He's a charming guy, and he's always got women chasing after him," says a
friend. "It was nothing long term, but they were seen out together for several
months."

If any of this ends up in the newspapers when Faria sells her story, I'm told:
"It'll be huge news in the Asian community."

Private mourning

VRAISED EYEBROWS at Paul Foot's funeral this week, as mourners searched in vain
for the Private Eye editor Ian Hislop (left).

"Ian was leading the tributes on TV when Paul died, but didn't seem to be in the
crowd at Golders Green Crematorium," says one. "It's a bit odd: I always thought
the two of them were very close."

Hislop's office explains that he was out of the country. "It's very unfortunate,
because obviously Ian was greatly affected. But he wasn't just in France or
somewhere; it was absolutely miles away."

For the immediate future, at least, the satirical magazine will continue with
Foot's "in the back" column. "A team works on it, and they will carry on until
Ian decides what to do in the long term," I'm told.

Snappy riposte

VALUN MICHAEL has no time for the platitudes beloved of most politicians. The
Rural Affairs minister recently received a letter criticising his opposition to
fox hunting.

"There are momentous and huge national and international concerns right now,"
thundered the correspondent. "But what is the mindless obsession paramount in
the minds of our government? A ban on fox hunting! If it wasn't so serious, it
would be laughable."

The minister's response, in full, reads as follows: "Thank you for your letter.
At a time when you say there are huge and momentous national and international
concerns, why are you writing to me about fox hunting?" How flippant!

VThe singer Morrissey - currently touring with his first album in seven years -
has Sir John Betjeman to thank for his recent renaissance.

According to the Betjeman Society's latest newsletter: "The pre-gig tape for
Morrissey's last tour consisted of this intensely moving poem about a sick
child, interspersed with the theme music to a particular Miss Marple
investigation."

Mozza's publicist confirms that he's a fan, and adds that the track in question
was on a recent compilation CD he made for NME magazine.

It's not the first time Betjeman has made inroads on the pop scene: a few years
back, Virgin released a musical CD of his poems, Betjeman's Banana Blush.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 2004, Friday

LETTER: ANOTHER WORLD

BYLINE: STEPHEN EDWARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 64 words


Sir: MEPs are small businesses, are they (letters, 27 July)? I wish my small
business could compete once every few years for a guaranteed multi- year income,
with all expenses paid. I bow to no one in my dislike for Ukip, but if ever they
wanted an example of how disconnected MEPs are from the real world, Diana
Wallis's letter is a belter.

STEPHEN EDWARDS

London SW10

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               7 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 30, 2004, Friday

Ashley Mote

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 34 words


Ashley Mote, MEP (Independent), from whom the UKIP withdrew the whip (report,
July 23), asks us to point out that he did not immediately or at any other time
start talks with Jean-Marie Le Pen.


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 30, 2004, Friday

Tories face discipline over UKIP video party

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 551 words


THE Conservative Party has suspended the entire leadership of a constituency
association in Cornwall for watching an anti-European Union video distributed by
the UK Independence Party.

The Conservative Association in Falmouth and Camborne, Lord Coe's former seat,
is under investigation by Conservative Central Office after the party's high
command received a tip-off about the apparent act of disloyalty.

However several members of the association are said to have resigned in disgust
at what they see as their party's over-reaction to a harmless video evening. The
strict response indicates the Conservatives' anxiety over the UKIP threat,
especially in areas such as Falmouth where the UKIP came a narrow second to the
Conservatives in June's European elections.

Shockwaves, the 30-minute video shown to members of the Falmouth Conservative
Association, promises to reveal "the facts they don't want you to know" about
the European Union: a sensational incantation of statistics about the dangers of
a Brussels-run Britain, endorsing the UKIP stance of withdrawal.

Quentin Peck, the chairman of the Falmouth and Camborne Conservative
Association, confirmed that they were facing the threat of disciplinary action
after the news of the video evening leaked back to London.

"Somebody informed Central Office that we were promoting videos that were not
Conservative videos," said Mr Peck. "So we are now in a supported status, while
we are having to explain one or two points to them."

But Mr Peck said that the whole matter was a misunderstanding, because his
association had not realised the video's political objectives before showing it.

"At the time we became involved with this video we didn't really know what it
contained, so we took a look at it. It really is an innocuous difference of
opinion, and we hope the matter will be dealt with very, very quickly," he said.

"All we have to do is assure Central Office that this is something we acquired
by mistake."

However, Conservative Central Office were treating the matter more seriously.

"There is an investigation going on into the Falmouth and Cambourne association
by the party board," said a spokeswoman.

"In the meantime it has been given supported status, meaning it is being run by
central office. We cannot say any more for fear of jeapordising the
investigation."

The low-budget video was not produced by the UKIP, but by an organisation called
Subjects Against the Nice Treaty (Sanity), founded by Ashley Mote. Mr Mote
directed the video, which is sold for £4.50 through the UKIP mail order website,
which encourages supporters to "buy now and help us get the message to a million
people within the year!" The video promotes the UKIP before the closing credits.

Last month Mr Mote was elected as one of UKIP's 12 MEPs, but soon after he was
expelled from the party for failing to reveal that he was awaiting trial for
charges of housing benefit fraud.

On the UKIP website the party encourages supporters to hold video parties for
their friends to spread the word.

Malcolm Wood, the UKIP's South West organiser, said that the reaction of the
Conservatives was paranoid. "Since this was a non-party political video, it
shows quite what a state of panic the Conservatives are in."


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 29, 2004

Comment & Analysis: A woman's right to choose if, how and when she works: A
government drive on flexible working could close the pay gap

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1125 words


At last. At long last. In terms of sheer numbers of people there is no single
equality issue facing Labour as great as the gap in power and money between men
and women. Now, after years of campaigning, it looks as if the government may
finally be grasping the scale of the issue. Tony Blair's weekend announcement of
a women and work commission gives this generation its best chance so far of the
great cultural shift millions of women so desperately need.

The commission was sold in the press as something rather less dramatic - a blow
against the "sexism and the City" culture of the finance houses, which has led
to large payouts after court cases about groping, and a sexist culture
generally. Tackling that is worthwhile, though it is somehow no great surprise
that the macho culture of the City is as bad, or even worse than, in the
Football Association.

Nor should we underestimate the power of these stories to affect lower-octane,
less highly paid jobs. Every designer-suited woman who fights for her rights
with the Porsche-driving, transatlantic big boys of the Square Mile, and wins,
is being observed by millions of ordinary female office workers, quietly
applying the same logic to their own situation. But simply to focus more
attention on a handful of premier league cases would be a terrible failure of
nerve. It is very easy for a government to crossly point the finger at a few
high- profile cases. The real politics of women and work is much more important,
and much tougher too.

The pay gap remains a monstrous injustice, but it is an injustice that has
become structural and embedded right across the economy. Tackling pay, and the
childcare issues around it, will provoke a major protest from the very same
business interests New Labour has been so careful to woo for so long. Even women
working full-time earn on average 18% less than their male counterparts. For
women working part-time the gap is an astonishing 40%. It has narrowed since
Labour came to power, partly because of the minimum wage. But the narrowing has
been, frankly, pathetic in scale.

With far more women working than 30 years ago - the female employment rate is
now 70% against 42% in 1971 - Labour has come nowhere near achieving wage
equality. And this failure has nothing to do with education, since girls are
doing far better than boys at almost every level where it counts.

The commission will have to look both at the politics of the workplace, and at
wider cultural arguments, particularly around childcare and what the good life
really means. There is no doubt that the areas where women work - education,
health, public administration, hotels, catering - tend to be lower paid than,
say, manufacturing or financial services. But women are disproportionately stuck
in certain sectors because the rest of the economy has been so bad at offering
flexible working, and so insensitive about the physical demands of childbearing
and rearing, regarded by too many male managers as some kind of weird personal
hobby.

A stronger governmental drive on flexible working for fathers and mothers,
pushing an agenda that accepts child-rearing as central to any healthy society,
would get women into a wider variety of jobs and would, by that alone, begin to
close the pay gap. It is fundamentally wrong that a limited number of public
sector employees are taking the strain of offering decent maternity and
paternity deals, giving much of the private sector a free ride.

This cultural change is the sort of crusade which could help snuff out growing
female cynicism about New Labour. I only hope that Tony Blair and Gordon Brown,
when accepting Patricia Hewitt's case for the new commission, realised that it
conflicts with their own favoured US economic model of long hours and burn-out
employment.

Forget the odd Ukip Neanderthal who wants women to spend longer cleaning behind
the fridge. The opposition will come from powerful business interests. But it
may also come from some women.

I belong to the generation of women who grew up seeing their mothers frustrated
and bored by domestic drudgery. They were often women who had been well educated
and who had aspirations for more interesting lives but who found the post-war
labour market didn't offer them anything like the opportunities we have today.
They were the women whose lives, and in my case exhortations, formed the
feminism of my generation.

E loquent, often strident, but eventually glib, we thought we'd won the war in
less than a decade. We would "have it all". We would hold down good jobs while
simultaneously raising liberated, thoughtful children in partnership with the
new men who would be happy to work fewer hours but more efficiently, and share
the chores at home. Yes, there was a sex war. But we had won it.

This was, broadly speaking, a lie. We won many battles. We won legislative
battles, battles over abortion and the grosser forms of sexual chauvinism. Many
of us did get through university and did get good jobs. We are inclined to beat
ourselves up over our children, but generally, we did a fair enough job there
too. The trouble was, the labour market did not change enough, and men did not
change enough, and because of that millions of women felt horribly let down. It
was as if we had won the form of the victory without the substance. Our lives
were very different from the myth of terrifying superwomen: a perpetual round of
exhaustion and guilt.

Now the post-feminists are rising in influence, as eloquent as we once were. And
as glib. They proclaim the values of home-making and child-rearing against the
brittle, shallow world of work. Perhaps their misty-eyed view of domesticity, a
Nigella-ish fantasy of freshly baked muffins, developed because they did not see
the deep frustration of postwar mothers. They are revisiting abortion, asking
whether childcare is the answer, and seem readier to accept that boys will be
boys.

This inter-generational feminist argument can become angry and personal. No one
should try to take away a woman's right to choose, to work full-time, part-time,
flexibly or not at all. But without a stronger push towards equality, there
won't be a proper choice.

We need the new commission to push forward because of the millions of women who
need better lives, fairer pay, more interesting job choices and less drudgery.
For my generation it is about keeping faith with our mothers and changing the
culture that treats women as second-class citizens. It is about persuading the
business world, and the post-feminist younger sisters, that life need not be so
tough for working women. A government which tried to do that would be worth
re-electing.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 29, 2004

DEAR SUN

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 33 words


SO Jeremy Clarkson thinks the UKIP is silly. Will he think that when Brussels
makes us change road signs from miles to kilometres and forces us to drive on
the right?

COLIN WADEY Brighton


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              11 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 29, 2004, Thursday

My advice to the Tories -don't panic, do reach out

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 22

LENGTH: 900 words


Howard's party is on a long march and it needs to be patient and persistent

THE POLITICAL market fluctuates and exaggerates trends even more than the stock
market. Just as the holiday mood in 10 Downing Street is of elation mixed with
relief, so it is of renewed gloom, restlessness and backbiting among leading
Tories.

Both reactions are exaggerated. The Blairites have seen off the Butler report
and Brownite leadership moves. But Tony Blair's problems are far from over: a
third term is not yet in the bag.

Similarly, the current Tory woe is overdone. It is an over-reaction to the
excessive rise in expectations after Michael Howard became party leader in the
autumn. His arrival immediately boosted morale. According to Populus polls, the
Tories' rating rose from an average of 32 per cent in the final three months of
Iain Duncan Smith's leadership to 35 per cent in the first three of Mr Howard's.

But none of this meant that the Tories' underlying problems had been solved.

Labour was still level pegging or slightly ahead in most polls. Tory support
slipped back after Easter to under 34 per cent, and under 30 per cent now,
particularly among professionals who were initially most positive about Mr
Howard.

The June 10 elections provided a mixed message, with the Tories doing no better
in the local council contests than under William Hague in 2000, and well below
the levels achieved by Labour in the mid-1990s. The UK Independence Party ate
into core Conservative support in the European elections. The party's third
place in the two recent by-elections was no surprise, and would have made less
impact but for all the noise party leaders made about the scale of their effort.

The sense of let-down was compounded by Mr Howard's mishandling of the Butler
report in the Commons last week, the very arena where he was supposed to shine.

Add in a daft story about metropolitan trendies (at least in Tory terms) trying
to ease out veteran backbenchers and the Conservatives are winning the holiday
headlines for disarray.

Stripping away the silliness, what has happened is a reality check. The Tories
are not doomed, any more than Labour was in the mid-1980s. But the recovery path
will be long, and gradual, requiring at least two more general elections. It is
no good Tory leaders comforting themselves with the hope that Labour's position
is irrecoverable because of its very poor results on June 10 and in the by
elections.

Politics is a matter of choice, and there is no sign of any substantial shift
towards the Tories by either former Labour voters or undecideds. Nearly three in
ten voters think Mr Blair "has not been a good Prime Minister overall", but
still prefer him to Mr Howard.

A contradictory Tory argument is to complain that the electoral system is biased
against them. That is not because of gerrymandering. Population changes since
the last review of constituency boundaries mean that Tory seats are larger than
Labour ones. But this inequality has not increased much recently and will be
partially corrected by the disappearance of a dozen Scottish seats at the next
election and a national boundary review afterwards.

Much more important in giving Labour a big advantage is a combination of
differential turnout (over 6 per cent higher in Tory than Labour-held seats) and
tactical voting and targeting between Labour and Liberal Democrat supporters.
Back in 1987, if both Tories and Labour had won the same 37.4 per cent share of
the vote, the Tories would have won four more MPs. In 2001, on the same share of
the vote, Labour would have won 140 more MPs. As David Butler and Sarah Butt
recently wrote in the journal Representation, "there is an increasing
possibility of a government winning a comfortable majority of seats while being
far behind its main rival in terms of votes".

What can the Tories do? Not panic is the obvious answer. That means ignoring the
calls from the Right for an even more Eurosceptic policy (in effect
quasi-withdrawal from the EU) to win back defectors to the UKIP, or of
campaigning primarily on crime, immigration and tax cuts. The second,
unsuccessful phase of Mr Hague's leadership shows the perils both of repeatedly
changing strategies and of pursuing "a core vote" strategy.

The Tories need to show that they are addressing the worries of Middle England,
of aspiring middle and skilled working-class voters, just as Mr Blair did in the
mid-1990s. Many leading Tories agree and this is what lies behind the "right to
choose" plans for health and schools, and the re-thinking of pensions policy.

These are along promising lines, even if the Tories have to refine their
message, particularly over the boundaries between the public and the private
sectors. Focus groups show that "choice" confuses many voters, and patient or
parental "control" is a more appealing theme.

None of this means that the Tories cannot promise tax cuts. But, first, they
have to win the argument about the size and role of the State. In the late
1970s, Margaret Thatcher's task was straightforward given rising taxes, strikes
and inflation. It is much harder now. Voters still agree with the Government's
aims.

Rather, they question Labour's record in delivering. That means that there is no
alternative for the Tories but patience and persistence. It is the long march,
not the snappy slogan.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 28, 2004

Howard ignores his critics

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 312 words


MICHAEL Howard yesterday dismissed the latest outbreak of Tory infighting as a
'bout of dyspepsia' and made it clear he has no intention of changing his
strategy.

Sources close to the Tory leader said he was focusing on 'winning the election'
and was determined to ignore this 'summer froth'.

The squabbling was fuelled by Conservative figures such as Michael Portillo and
Lord Tebbit, who used the party's recent drubbing in two by-elections and Mr
Howard's ineffectual performance against Tony Blair in the debate on the Butler
report to snipe at their leader.

But Mr Howard's spokesman said he was taking 'no notice of this summer froth'
and concentrating on his campaign.

The party leadership also labelled reports that the Tories cannot win the next
election because of a biased voting system as 'absolute rubbish'.

Research suggests they need a 10 per cent lead over Labour to have any chance of
getting into government because of quirks in the system.

But a leadership source said: 'We are going out to win the next election.

Anyone who says otherwise is simply not in the loop.' The message came as the UK
Independence Party tried to split the Tories yesterday by proposing an electoral
pact with MPs who sign a pledge advocating withdrawal from the EU.

Nigel Farage, who leads UKIP's 12 MEPs, told the BBC the party might offer not
to stand against candidates who pledged to take Britain out of the EU.

It made the same offer in 2001. None accepted then, but Mr Farage said it could
be more successful this time after UKIP's strong showing in June's European
elections.

'I think there may be a handful of people in the Labour Party who will think
very seriously about signing this and perhaps a dozen or more in the
Conservative Party,' he added.

Tory HQ said there was 'no question' of a deal.

The Tories at war

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              13 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 28, 2004

The Bed Blockers v Notting Hill Tories

BYLINE: EDWARD HEATHCOAT AMORY

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1871 words



ONCE again, warring factions divide the Tories. In one corner, the Bed Blockers
- old hands who have been sitting for too long in safe seats, spend too much
time on foreign 'fact-finding' missions in sunny climes and rarely show up at
the Commons.

In the other, ambitious, careerist young Turks - the Notting Hill Tories who
live near each other, sharing the same fashionable West London postcode.

They plot and dine in each other's homes and believe the time has come for the
older generation to make way.

Derek Conway, one of the Bed Blockers, brands them the Notting Hill set who 'sit
around in curious little bistros, drink themselves silly and wish they were
doing what the rest of us are getting on with'.

The tight-knit group - who are described as 'highly ambitious and extremely
successful in other fields' - have known each other since their early days at
university and Central Office and even share exotic holidays.

Comparisons are being drawn with the so-called Islington set which ten years ago
helped propel Tony Blair into the Labour leadership and ultimately No 10. So how
long can the old guard last? Here, we profile the two factions in the latest
Tory civil war.

THE BED BLOCKERS

Derek Conway, 51 Constituency: Old Bexley and Sidcup

AN ENTHUSIASTIC backstabber, Conway played a leading role in getting rid of Iain
Duncan Smith, but when his candidate David Davis stepped aside in favour of
Michael Howard, the Old Bexley MP disappeared.

Had the worst voting record of any Tory MP in the last Parliamentary session.

Now desperate to be the next Speaker of the Commons, so he's been busy sucking
up to Labour. Most likely to say: Now, if the party had chosen David Davis . . .

Least likely to say: Of course, I'll be happy to speak in the sheep-shearing
debate at midnight.

2. Tony Baldry, 54 Constituency: Banbury HIS enemies say the former fisheries
minister is busier serving the shareholders of the ten companies of which he is
a director than his constituents. He even manages to act as chairman of six of
these concerns, as well as being a practising barrister. In 2000, he had to
apologise to the Commons after recommending a solicitor, Sarosh Zaiwalla, for an
honour, just days after accepting a Pounds 5,000 loan from him. In the last
session, he voted in fewer than half the Commons votes. Most likely to say: It's
been another successful year for the shareholders. Least likely to say: I
couldn't possibly accept another directorship.

3. Stephen Dorrell, 52 Constituency: Charnwood ONCE the rising star of the Tory
left, Dorrell's last job was Secretary of State for Health under John Major. In
opposition, he's been too grand to do much work, and spends much of his time
running his family's large industrial clothing business.

He voted in only one-third of the divisions in the last parliamentary session,
and is rarely seen in Parliament.

Most likely to say: I'm sorry, but could you direct me to the Commons?

Least likely to say: Of course I'll be the shadow minister for paperclips,
Michael.

4. Sir Brian Mawhinney, 64 Constituency: North West Cambridgeshire ONETIME
chairman of the Conservative Party, the Cambridgeshire MP last year became
chairman of the Football League, a high-profile job representing low-profile
clubs.

After taking the role, he pledged to travel around the country to see lots of
football matches, so presumably his constituents, like his colleagues in the
Commons, haven't seen much of Sir Brian recently.

He is leaving Parliament at the next General Election.

Most likely to say: He's the next Wayne Rooney.

Least likely to say: I'd like a transfer to the front bench please, Michael.

5. Andrew Mackay, 55 Constituency: Bracknell FAMOUSLY perma-tanned Conservative
MP, who has a penchant for holidays. Over the past year, he accepted freebie
trips to Bahrain in October, Botswana in November, Egypt in February and Oman in
May.

He's the captain of the Parliamentary Golfing Society, an onerous role he takes
very seriously. He spent several years as Shadow Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, but somehow seemed to be absent on holiday whenever anything important
happened.

Most likely to say: Can you direct me to the club-class lounge?

Least likely to say: My passport expired several years ago.

6. Robert Jackson, 57 Constituency: Wantage PRO-EUROPEAN, Pro-Labour, Pro-Tony
Blair, Mr Jackson is barely a Tory any more - so it's no surprise he's leaving
the Commons at the next election.

During the last session, he voted in fewer than half of Commons divisions.

Known for entertaining his guests in the country by singing in German, Jackson
also voted with the Government on student tuition fees, and backed Blair over
David Kelly. Most likely to say: That dossier was a splendid piece of work,
Prime Minister. Least likely to say: Those UKIP people have a point, you know.

7. Sir Patrick Cormack, 65 Constituency: South Staffordshire POSSIBLY the least
popular MP in the Conservative Party, Sir Patrick devotes himself to supporting
the Prime Minister rather than his party leader. Made an especially unhelpful
intervention on Michael Howard in last week's Commons debate on Iraq. Like Derek
Conway, wants to be Speaker. Voted in just over half Commons votes in the last
session, but found time to edit The House magazine.

Most likely to say: Very well put, Prime Minister.

Least likely to say: Does the Honourable Gentleman remember David Kelly?

8. Virginia Bottomley, 56 Constituency: South West Surrey THE once energetic and
pretty former cabinet minister, now a partner in a headhunting firm, voted in
only 43 per cent of the divisions in the last parliamentary session, although
her husband Peter Bottomley MP did a little better.

She hardly ever speaks in the Commons now, and is planning to leave at the next
election, because: 'In Parliament, I feel like the first wife at the second
wife's wedding.' Most likely to say: Nothing.

Least likely to say: Let's go down to the Commons, Peter darling, and we can
both speak in the debate.

NOTTING HILL TORIES

1. David Cameron, 37 Constituency: Witney, Oxfordshire DEPUTY chairman and
sharp-suited 'Head of policy co-ordination' (i.e. right-hand man) for Michael
Howard, but one stop short of a seat in the Shadow Cabinet. After a first at
Oxford, worked as a political boffin in the Conservative Research Department at
Central Office, then as special adviser to Norman Lamont at the time of Black
Wednesday.

His mercurial progress has even survived a fawning profile by columnist Bruce
'Brute' Anderson - widely regarded as the kiss of death. Most likely to say:
Yes, Michael. Least likely to say: Let's hike interest rates.

2. George Bridges, 35 Head of Conservative Research Department A FORMER
assistant political secretary to John Major, Bridges has been given the key job
of putting the Tories on a war-footing for the election. A Eurosceptic and avid
tax-cutter, he is robustly Rightwing.

Asked about the Tories' direction pre-Howard, Bridges said too many resembled
'shell-shocked soldiers coming back from the trenches: whenever anybody mentions
the word "tax" they dive for cover under the table'.

Most likely to say: Cut that tax. Least likely to say: Incoming! Dive!

3. Steve Hilton, 35 Advertising man who narrowly failed selection for Surrey
Heath FAMOUSfor devising the 'Demon Eyes' Tory election poster in 1997, which
was regarded as brilliant, even if the election was a resounding defeat.

Working for Maurice Saatchi, he also ran the more successful election
advertising campaign in 1992.

But even the sharpest political player can drop his guard, and Hilton's alleged
remarks to an A-level student months before the 1997 election - when he
described John Major as the Tories' 'weakness' - got him in a spot of bother.

Most likely to say: The eyes have it. Least likely to say: Don't quote me on
this.

4. Boris Johnson, 40 Constituency: Henley SHADOWMinister for the Arts who finds
time to edit The Spectator, Boris is certainly the best-known of the Notting
Hill Set, many of whom he knew at Oxford, where he read classics and was
President of the Union. Boris, who turned 40 last month, has mastered the art of
playing the bumbling young fogey - displayed most famously during his
appearances on Have I Got News For You? But all the while, say his supporters,
he has been quietly sharpening his claws as a highly ambitious political animal.

Most likely to say: Er. . . what, me for the leadership? Well if you think so .
. . Least likely to say: Go ahead, punk. Make my day.

5. Rachel Whetstone, 37 Chief of Staff to Michael Howard GRADUATE of Bristol
University and fully paid-up resident of Notting Hill, she is regarded as one of
the strongest influences on Howard.

The glamorous Whetstone is described as the second most important woman in
Howard's life (after his even more glamorous wife, Sandra) and is one of the few
people not afraid to tell him the truth.

It was she who told Howard that his infamous interview with Newsnight's Jeremy
Paxman - when he refused to answer the same question 14 times - had been a
public relations disaster, and not the triumph he'd imagined.

Most likely to say: Listen to me, Michael. Least likely to say: I don't have an
opinion.

6. Ed Vaizey, 35 Parliamentary candidate for Wantage, Oxfordshire ANOTHER
graduate of the Central Office 'finishing school'of the Conservative Research
Department. Became a lobbyist and PR man, and Guardian columnist. His background
of spin epitomises the Notting Hill Set and is the main criticism of their
detractors - that few have ever held 'proper jobs'. Lacks the money of his
fellow Hillites, but is Howard's main speechwriter. Ex-boyfriend of Esther
McVey, chums include Anne Robinson. Most likely to say: Who wants to be a
backbencher?

Least likely to say: Michael, you are the weakest link.

7. George Osborne, 33 Constituency: Tatton, Cheshire SON and heir of wallpaper
tycoon Sir Peter Osborne. Another graduate of Oxford and the Conservative
Research Department. Political Secretary to William Hague, including the time of
the infamous 'baseball cap' picture at the Notting Hill Carnival. Ranked as the
25th most wealthy MP, with estimated assets of Pounds 3 million.

Some have dubbed him and Cameron the Brown and Blair of the Tories, though no
one is quite sure which would be which.

Most likely to say: No, not the baseball cap.

Least likely to say: Shall we try B&Q?

8. Michael Gove, 36 Saturday editor of The Times, recently selected as
Conservative candidate for ultra-safe seat of Surrey Heath FIRM supporter of
Michael Portillo, whose admiring biography he wrote, and regular panellist on
Radio 4's The Moral Maze. Recently denounced Boris Johnson for wasting his time
as an MP. A strident advocate of the war in Iraq, weeks before the invasion he
said: 'It's hard to write, but Tony Blair is proving an outstanding PM.'
Coincidentally, Times owner Rupert Murdoch had just said something very similar.

Most likely to say: Yes, Rupert. Least likely to say: Bring Our Boys Home.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              14 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

Howard rejects UKIP's truce

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 352 words

MICHAEL Howard yesterday dismissed an offer of a truce from the UK Independence
Party that would allow up to 20 Tory MPs with vulnerable majorities to stand un-
opposed if they backed withdrawal from the European Union.

UKIP moved to capitalise on its strong showing in the June European elections by
appealing to Tory waiverers. The idea of a non-aggression pact will be debated
at UKIP's autumn conference, but was rejected out of hand by the Tory leader and
one of the party's most ardent Eurosceptics.

The Tories said their pledge to stand firm against the single currency and to
renegotiate the terms of Britain's membership were tough enough to appeal in
seats where Europe had become increasingly unpopular. A statement from
Conservative Central Office said there was "no question" of a deal with UKIP,
and the offer would "not affect our position".

It added: "We have set out very clearly our vision for a modern 'live and let
live' Europe. This will be the agenda on which we fight the next general
election."

But Roger Knapman, UKIP's leader and a former Tory MP, said some Conservatives
were privately sympathetic. "There are MPs with small majorities who suddenly
realise they do not have a hope of winning," he said.

Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP, said: "Unfortunately the political class at
Westminster seem to have gone along with the idea that we shouldn't even
question our membership of the European Union. But there are people in the
Conservative Party and in the Labour Party who are deeply concerned about the
relationship now and who realise that the constitution poses a really big, big
threat.

"I think there may be a handful of people in the Labour Party who will think
very seriously about signing this and perhaps a dozen or more in the
Conservative Party."

The leading Eurosceptic Tory MP Angela Browning, who is under pressure from UKIP
in her West Country constituency, rejected the idea of signing up to total
withdrawal from the EU.

"I would certainly be in favour of us looking again at our terms of trade, but
what they [UKIP] want is a big row and out tomorrow."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              15 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

A natural break - or career suicide? According to the campaigners, maternity -
and increasingly, paternity - leave is an essential part of modern family life.
But how do today's high-fliers feel about taking time off from their
high-pressure jobs? Judith Woods finds out

BYLINE: By Judith Woods

SECTION: Features; The Arts: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1472 words

News that Labour minister Yvette Cooper has just given birth to her third child
will give a much-needed boost to parental rights campaigners, who have been
dismayed at the latest figures showing that only one in five fathers is taking
up paid paternity leave.

Cooper, a junior minister in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, made
headlines in 2001 when she became the first serving minister to take maternity
leave. With the arrival of her as yet unnamed daughter, the 35-year-old MP for
Pontefract and Castleford intends to have five-and-a-half months off, a bold
move in the volatile world of parliamentary politics.

Her husband, Ed Balls, has presumably been spared the decision about whether to
take two weeks' paid paternity leave. He recently left his job as Gordon Brown's
chief economic adviser, announcing his intention to stand for the safe Labour
seat of Normanton at the next election.  But for many new fathers, the fact that
paternity pay is pegged at just pounds 102.80 per week puts paid to any
dewy-eyed notions of staying home to make cups of tea and change the occasional
nappy.

"If any of my male employees asked for paternity leave, I'd give it to them, of
course, because it's the law," says one company director, who asks to remain
anonymous. "But it's just not the done thing. Fathers generally take two weeks'
holiday, so everything is above board. Otherwise, what's to stop them patting
the baby's bottom every morning and heading off to the golf course for a
fortnight?"

According to the TUC, Britain's culture of long working hours places enormous
pressure on fathers not to take two weeks' paternity leave. But status anxiety
is not an exclusively male preserve and many mothers feel uncomfortable about
taking time off.

Women can now take up to a year's leave of absence before returning to work -
six months' paid maternity leave (a statutory minimum of six weeks at 90 per
cent pay, followed by 20 weeks at pounds 102.80 per week) plus a further six
months' unpaid leave if they choose. But how many really feel comfortable about
taking their full entitlement and leaving themselves prey to colleagues'
machinations during their absence?

In the past week alone, the comments of UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom - "No
self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of child-bearing age" - will have unnerved prospective mothers, as
will the sex discrimination case brought by 14 British Airways stewardesses, who
claim that their pay and promotion prospects suffered after they took maternity
leave.

Financial constraints are the main reason why most women return to work after
having a child. But there are some women who leap at the chance of taking
extended leave.

"Colleagues thought I was committing career suicide when I said I was taking a
year's maternity leave," says Kathryn Mallard, 35, whose daughter, Rosie, is six
months old. "And if I'm honest, I wouldn't have done it had I really been
enjoying my job, but I was feeling a bit bored and it seemed like a good time to
take a break."

Mallard, who lives in London and works in publishing, saved up pounds 10,000 to
see her through the year, as she felt uncomfortable about asking her husband to
subsidise her. With six months of leave to go, she feels relaxed about the
future.

"I don't find motherhood an unmitigated joy, but I think there's something
psychopathic about putting so much emphasis on your CV that you go back to work
before you have to. There's always a coven of women in any office who stir
things up when you're away, and I do think about that occasionally, but I feel
distanced from it," she says.

"I feel like I'm in a win-win situation, as you can't be sacked when you're on
maternity leave. So when I come back, I either get my old position back or they
have to pay me a lot of money to go away."

But not all mothers postpone a return to work for reasons of professional
disenchantment. While stressing that she loved her job, actress Gwyneth Paltrow
declared after the birth of her daughter, Apple, in May, that she was putting
her career on hold indefinitely. As she extolled the virtues of motherhood, the
31-year-old Oscar winner infuriated her peers by taking a sideswipe at actresses
who try to combine families with film-making.

"There are women in this business who have children and I just think, 'You must
never, never see them'," she lamented. "You can't do movies back-to-back and see
your child if they go to school. I might not work in ages. Acting is a fantastic
job, but it's not going to define my life, much to my agent's horror."

But, then, with all the glorious fickleness we have come to expect from
Hollywood's A list, 13 days later came an announcement that Paltrow was going to
star in and produce a big-budget film about Marlene Dietrich.

Women in the media and broadcasting, it seems, are particularly prone to
nervousness about their public profiles. BBC newsreader Fiona Bruce returned to
the screen just 16 days after having her second child, Mia, in November 2001.

"I'm not some mad career mother," she protested. "I don't want people to think
I'm setting a terribly bad example here - the last thing I would advocate is
women rushing back to work with a baby."

It's difficult to discern what, in fact, she was advocating when she took the
infant to work and breastfed her between takes of Crimewatch. But many women can
identify with a certain jitteriness that comes when hormones are in full flood,
and a creeping fear takes hold that you are not, in fact, indispensable.

"I took six weeks off when I had my first baby, because I'd only just started in
my job and, in those days, there was no entitlement. In fact, I think the baby
was conceived on my first day," says Julia Olivier, 49, a mother of five, whose
eldest child is now 15. "Four weeks were taken as holiday and the last two as
sick leave. When I came back, I was shattered, but my female boss had taken six
weeks with each of her children, so that was expected to be the norm.

"I think, with maternity leave, it's the female equivalent of fagging: bosses
impose on you what happened to them. I know I feel a certain resentment when I
look at how easy women have it now."

Olivier, who now works in child psychology, took three to four months off with
each of her subsequent children, partly owing to financial concerns and partly
because she had a nanny, and felt that it would be too disruptive to stay at
home.

"When you have a system in place which is running smoothly, you can get into a
situation where mummy ends up fighting with nanny over the children."

Women who campaigned for better maternity rights in the past find themselves
ambivalent about the strides that have been made. Sharon Maxwell Magnus,
assistant editor of She magazine in the mid-1990s, says that she is most envious
of the fact that parents of under-fives have the right to ask their employers
for part-time work and flexible hours.

"In my day, asking to go part-time was like Oliver Twist picking up his begging
bowl - and the shocked response was pretty much the same as in the book," says
Maxwell Magnus, who has two children, aged 10 and seven. "We lobbied for these
sorts of rights, and I wish I had been given the opportunities mothers have
nowadays."

But Noelle Walsh, former editor of Good Housekeeping and also a mother of two,
disagrees that much has changed over the past 15 years. It is private attitudes
that prevail, regardless of legislation, she believes.

"The law has moved on but the culture hasn't," she says. "If I had my time
again, I would have had my children when I was on a lower rung of the ladder.
You can get away with maternity leave when you are number three, four or five,
but if you are at the top, it's much harder."

Walsh, who departed from Good Housekeeping two weeks after the birth of her son,
now 13, says that if a woman is the boss, then she needs to be in the office.
Installing broadband at home and organising conference calls is no substitute
for physical presence.

"If you are away for weeks, never mind months, at a time, that makes you weak
and your position is vulnerable."

Her words may strike a chill in the heart of pregnant women everywhere, but
women can take some comfort from the fact the Government is floating the idea of
"daddy leave", a portion of leave that can only be taken by fathers, in the
first year of a child's life.

By basing it on the "use it or lose it" principle, the hope is that fathers may
feel rather more compelled than at present to spend more time with their
offspring.

Not only will this present a prime opportunity for bonding, but it affords an
excellent chance for mothers to put on their work suits and casually pop into
the office - just to find out what's really going on.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              16 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

Superficial assessment of Conservative 'bedblockers'

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 106 words

SIR - The Tory plan to get rid of "bedblocking" MPs reeks of utter desperation.
Is this the pitiful level to which the party of which I was once proud to be a
member has finally sunk?

Several of the MPs named in your article are high-profile figures with a strong
following, notably Kenneth Clarke and David Davis. Attempts to remove these men
would be disastrous. It appears that the Tory party is about to start tearing
itself apart once more after a brief semblance of unity.

I can only say: thank God, I joined UKIP. On current form, the steady exodus of
Tories is likely to become a torrent.

Mike Smith

Southsea, Hants

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 28, 2004

TOP TORIES CAN'T COPE WITH LOSING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 170 words


SOME senior Tories still cannot cope with being in Opposition, a former aide to
John Major claimed yesterday.

Sheila Gunn, who was Mr Major's press secretary and who hopes to be selected as
a candidate for the next election, said she would welcome a "turnover" of MPs to
make more room for "new blood".

Her comments follow reports that about 30 veteran Tories had been labelled
"bed-blockers" and urged to step down at the next election, making way for new
talent.

The claims were dismissed by some MPs named in the reports, with one blaming a
whispering campaign by the "Notting Hill set" of younger Conservatives.

Ms Gunn said: "I am not sure I would call it 'bed blocking'. But I think there
are some of those, maybe they have been ministers for many years and have not
adapted to Opposition."

Meanwhile, the UK Independence Party has threatened to divide the ranks of the
main parties by telling MPs it would not stand against candidates who pledged to
support Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              18 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 28, 2004

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 413 words


DESPERATE for a taste of the good life, Hickey was considering applying for the
job of second chauffeur to the Queen, advertised in The Lady magazine.

Alas, the vacancy, which is for a driver to ferry the Royal Family to and fro,
pays only GBP 15,500 (plus benefits), a challenging wage for any London dweller.

Prospective Parkers keen to live within corgi-throwing distance of Her Maj can
apply for a "live-in" post, for which there will be a "salary adjustment" (i. e.
a decrease). Hickey will carry on scouring the ad columns.

CANNY comic Sacha Baron Cohen is set to re-release his film Ali G In Da House in
the US to take advantage of his recent burgeoning popularity on American TV. "He
thinks it's time for the Staines Massive to go properly Stateside, " says
Hickey's man with da microphone.

HICKEY urges Eddie "the Eagle" Edwards' newborn daughter to look to singing
rather than skiing as her future career.

It seems ski-jump cult hero Eddie believes two-week-old Ottilie Rose is not only
perfectly formed for flying above the snow but is also a dead ringer for Elvis
Presley. The former Olympian, who came last at the 1988 Calgary Winter Games in
both the 70-metre and 90-metre events, says: "She looks just like Elvis. She's
not too big, not too small, a great size for ski jumping.

She has big feet too, so she won't need skis."

Heaven forbid.

SEVENTIES rocker Roy Wood's hopes of standing as a parliamentary candidate for
the UK Independence Party are causing much excitement in the party's ranks. The
hairy star of The Move and Wizzard, who sang I Wish It Could Be Christmas Every
Day, is the latest star to join up and chuffed party officials are already
counting the benefits of his arrival. "With Roy here, this year's Christmas
party is going to be blinding, " gushes a Ukip spokesman. "We won't even have to
pay him royalties to perform."

GLASTONBURY, once an exclusively hippy festival, was this year awash with toffs,
housewives and classical music.

Now Hickey hears that Welsh tenor Bryn Terfel would like to be on the bill next
year. "I read with huge interest how the English National Opera got on this
year, " he says. "I loved how the crowd dressed up for Wagner's Ride Of The
Valkyries even though they were slumming it in tents.

Fantastic! Having been raised on a farm, I would feel at home singing in the
open. If it was the right timing, I would definitely do it."

Perhaps Pavarotti could be tempted, too.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              19 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 28, 2004

We won't win EU argument without proper scrutiny of Brussels, says Hain

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 744 words


The Eurosceptic climate in Britain will never be eradicated as long as Brussels
remains outside of proper democratic scrutiny in this country, Peter Hain, the
leader of the Commons, said yesterday.

Mr Hain, often seen as one of the more pro-European cabinet ministers, admitted
"there is a chasm between the British people and the Brussels institutions".

With ministers struggling to come up with a strategy to win a referendum on the
European constitution, he admitted for the first time that parliament was
neither properly holding to account UK ministers on EU issues nor the European
commission "with the mass of documents pouring out from Brussels".

"It is absolutely crucial that the British parliament, which is the cockpit of
democracy, acts as a proper link between Europe and British citizens, and that
is not happening now," he said.

In an interview with the Guardian, he said reform was vital "if we are to create
a climate, and change attitudes in this country so that we can really put
Britain at the heart of Europe".

He said "only a small coterie of MPs - 30 or 40 at best - were engaged with
Europe", adding that some former ministers have said they sometimes "went to
Brussels reading papers for the first time on the plane out".

He said "more than 500 MPs are not engaged at all on EU issues and if MPs are
not connected into EU policy development, directives and regulation, how can the
public possibly be ?

"There is an imperative to put EU policy, and legislation into the mainstream of
parliament as a means of putting Europe into everyday debate."

Mr Hain's intervention came as pressure builds on the government to be seen to
be doing more to reform the EU in advance of a referendum on the new
constitutional treaty.

The appointment, last week, of Peter Mandelson as Britain's European
commissioner is being interpreted as a sign that Tony Blair wants to step up the
pace of reform after Ukip's strong showing in the European elections and polls
showing deep hostility to the treaty.

Mr Hain and Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, are drawing up a reform package
to make Europe a central concern of parliament.

It includes asking Peter Mandelson to answer questions regularly in front of a
new joint committee of peers and MPs.

The joint committee, possibly including MEPS, would meet quarterly to discuss EU
issues.

"I would like to see commissioners and the UK commissioner in particular giving
evidence and answering questions. It would be of great benefit," Mr Hain said.

The package is being worked on by the Commons modernisation committee, which has
been told by former Labour ministers that parliament often receives notification
of major EU documents too late to have any influence. One idea under
consideration is to give parliament a right to mandate ministers on their
negotiating position before they go to Brussels: a practice common in
Scandinavia.

The committee is also looking at allocating a fixed time for Europe during the
regular hour-long Commons departmental oral questions, such as home affairs,
health or industry.

It is also suggesting departmental select committees examine European policy
regularly in their specialist areas, so scrapping the current sparsely attended
procedure. But in a classic Westminster turf war, the proposal is being resisted
by the foreign affairs select committee which is arguing that Europe must remain
its preserve and not be dispersed to other select committees.

Mr Hain said the Commons European scrutiny committee, which meets in secret and
sifts EU documents and the relevant British ministerial responses, "does an
excellent forensic job". But most MPs were unaware of its work.

"Then the public encounter the directive down the line, often reacts badly, turn
on their MPs who then denies all responsibility and knowledge. It adds to the
cycle of Eurosceptic fever," he said. One solution being examined by the
government, he said, was to allow the current scrutiny committee to meet in
public, something it has asked to do.

He said the constitutional treaty, which will probably be voted on in a
referendum in 2006, could put parliament "in pole position because for the very
first time MPs will have a chance to scrutinise any new commission proposals
before it can be taken through the Brussels process.

"That is a big democratic advance that you would never guess from all the
Eurosceptic paranoia ."


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

TORY LEADER PUT UNDER PRESSURE ON THREE FRONTS

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF AND BEN RUSSELL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 733 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was given an ultimatum about his leadership last night and warned
that "the muttering will become louder and louder" unless he delivers an
impressive performance at this year's party conference.

John Strafford, chairman of the Campaign for Conservative Democracy, said Mr
Howard would "face big trouble" if he failed to win over party activists in
Bournemouth in October, and could even face a formal leadership challenge.

Aides of Mr Howard have been trying to dampen speculation about his leadership
and to deflect criticism that he has surrounded himself with a coterie of
metropolitan advisers. Central Office sources dismissed claims that the Chief
Whip, David Maclean, had drawn up a list of parliamentary "bed blockers" who
should move aside to make way for young blood in the Tory ranks.

The claims sparked a row over Mr Howard's inner circle of advisers, after they
were dubbed the "Notting Hill set" by Derek Conway, the former whip named as one
of the MPs under fire. Mr Conway said yesterday: "The lesson for them is to be
much more careful about gossip and the closer they are to the leader the less
they must gossip."

Mr Strafford said grassroots activists were "muttering" behind the scenes and
beginning to wonder if there really was "something of the night" about the
Conservative leader - a reference to Ann Widdecombe's damning put- down while Mr
Howard was Home Secretary. "If he has a bad conference I can see moves happening
pretty quickly," he said.

Mr Strafford said activists had begun discussing the leadership after the poor
results in the European elections. They were also disappointed by Mr Howard's
failure to land a killer blow on Tony Blair over Iraq in the House of Commons.
"Michael Howard made a clever lawyer's point which upset both pro- and anti-war
people," he said. "Once the mutters start, people start thinking maybe there is
something of the night' about him."

Senior aides made it clear they would not bow to pressure to tack to the right.
An aide to Mr Howard said: "This is the opening overture in the silly season.
Like all overtures it will be over fairly quickly. We get blown by the weather
but we do not change course. We are not going to change strategy."

The UK Independence Party meanwhile threatened to stand against any Tory MP who
did not sign a declaration saying they wanted to withdraw from the European
Union. The Euroceptic party said it was planning to campaign against Mr Howard
in his constituency in Folkestone and Hythe, where he is under pressure from the
Liberal Democrats. They also plan to target Oliver Letwin, the shadow
Chancellor, in West Dorset. A UKIP spokesman said there were more than 300 party
members in Folkestone. "They are itching to get Michael Howard. It will
certainly be an interesting campaign there," he said

But Eurosceptic Tories rallied to Mr Howard's defence. Julian Brazier, an
anti-EU front-bench Tory MP, was dismissive about UKIP's attempt to knock the
Tories off course: "The policy we have on Europe is renegotiation. It is a much
tougher policy than we have had before," he said.

"I am a Eurosceptic but I won't be signing it. We don't have a record of giving
in to threats in this party."

Leading article, page 34

THE NOTTING HILL SET' THE BED BLOCKERS'

Rachel Whetstone Michael Howard's chief of staff. Former adviser to Mr Howard at
the Home Office. Said to have been furious at being cast as one of the Notting
Hill elite. Aged 36.

George Bridges Former political secretary to John Major. Now head of campaigning
at the Conservative Research and Development Department, the party's policy
wing.

David Cameron

37-year-old MP for Witney. Former adviser to Norman Lamont and Michael Howard.
Director of policy co-ordination at Central Office and tipped as a future
Conservative leader.

Sir Patrick Cormack

Tory grandee and strong supporter of the war in Iraq, who irritated Michael
Howard by intervening in his speech during debate on the Butler report.

Tony Baldry

MP for Banbury and chairman of the Commons International Development Committee,
who also intervened on Mr Howard during the Butler debate.

Derek Conway

MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup. Coined the phrase "Notting Hill set" after being
named as a "bed-blocking" MP in The Daily Telegraph. Played key role in the
downfall of Iain Duncan Smith.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              21 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 28, 2004

UKIP THREAT TO TORIES

LENGTH: 32 words


Tory MPs who fail to call for Britain to quit the EU will automatically face a
challenge from UK Independence Party candidates at the next election, its leader
Nigel Farage has vowed.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              22 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP turmoil as activists reject EU election pact

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 139 words


THE leadership of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) was facing a revolt yesterday
over its intention to give Conservative candidates a clear run if they promise
to back withdrawal from the EU.

Leading figures said that they would not take part in any deal with the Tories,
who had let the country down for 30 years and could not be trusted. They called
on their leaders to drop the idea, disclosed yesterday in The Times, saying it
had not yet been put to the party for discussion. The Tories also ruled out a
deal.

Gerard Batten, who was elected as the UKIP MEP for London in June and is a
member of the party's national executive, said that the move would be counter
productive because it would give the impression that the UKIP was a "bunch of
old Tories trying to change the direction of the Conservative Party".


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

LETTER: PREGNANCY AT WORK

BYLINE: DIANA WALLIS MEP

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 163 words


Sir: If Ukip's MEPs think that no one with any brain should employ a woman of
childbearing age (report, 21 July), it will be interesting to watch who they
employ in their new offices.

As an MEP I have just experienced two of my key staff, one in Belgium the other
in the UK, taking maternity leave and having their first children. MEPs are
small businesses and as employers have to negotiate social security and
employment legislation in at least two countries (this is not done for us by the
Parliament authorities). I am proud that both employees have had their maternity
leave and returned to work, having brought the joy of a first child to their
respective families - all with a minimum of disruption to the work of my office.
This is how it should be.

I challenge the Ukip MEPs to say how they would deal with a similar scenario. Or
would their response be just blind prejudice?

DIANA WALLIS MEP

Liberal Democrat, Yorkshire and the Humber

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              24 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

LETTER: MANDELSON IN EUROPE

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER KINGSLEY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 61 words


Sir: As a fellow Ukip candidate in the European elections I confess to being
nervous at the controversial way Geoffrey Bloom launched the party's much-needed
campaign against political correctness. But then I heard Peter Mandelson had
been appointed as Britain's European Commissioner. It put life back into
perspective.

CHRISTOPHER KINGSLEY

Hereford

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              25 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

YOUR LIFE: WORK: WE TOOK ON OUR BOSSES ..AND WON!;
 MANY WOMEN STILL HAVE IT TOUGH AT WORK - BUT CAN THEY DO MUCH ABOUT

BYLINE: JANE RIDLEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 936 words

HIGHLIGHT: SATISFIED: Vicky with daughter Ellie; TOLL: Jayne would snap at her
kids; RIP-OFF: Dawn was outraged by her pay


SO it's a world of sex equality at work? Don't you believe it. Women are still
losing out in a big way.

It's no coincidence that the number of sex discrimination claims taken to
tribunals soared by 76 per cent to 14,284 in 2003-4. In a string of cases, women
have won big payouts after being paid less than men or humiliated by their
bosses.

One City worker was "bullied and belittled" and was asked to serve drinks aboard
a corporate jet. A group of female cabin crew are suing BA for "devastating" sex
bias. And all this in a world in which the UK Independence Party's Godfrey Bloom
can pronounce: "No small businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age."

Women's rights at work clearly need a reappraisal, and on Friday Prime Minister
Tony Blair announced a strengthening of the law via the new Women At Work
Commission.

So just how bad has the situation got?

Here, we meet three working women who took a tough stand against sexual
discrimination.

And, opposite, we launch a major survey on your experiences...

j.ridley@

mirror.co.ukSOME DAYS I CAME HOME IN TEARSBus driver Jayne Cardwell, 35, from
Preston, Lancs, took action against her employer after being subjected to sexual
harassment.

WHEN Jayne trained as a bus driver, she knew she was entering a male-dominated
profession. What the mother of two hadn't bargained for were sexist jibes from
her colleagues.

She suffered more than two years' of harassment, ranging from crude comments to
another driver leeringly telling her about his fantasies.

"Some days I'd come home in tears," says Jayne, one of only six women at Preston
Bus Ltd, which employed 200 drivers.

She was disgusted to learn there was obscene graffiti about her in the men's
toilets, and she demanded to have it removed.

"I was in a difficult position because I feared if I made a fuss I'd be
ostracised," says Jayne. "The inspector wanted me to name names but I was
scared. I didn't even tell my husband for fear of worrying him.

"At home, I was quiet and withdrawn, often snapping at the kids. It took a toll
on our family life."

The final straw was a driver revealing he'd had sexy dreams about her. She'd had
enough and vowed never to return to the pounds 200-a-week job. After confiding
in husband Andrew, Jayne consulted her union, the TGW, which referred her to a
solicitor, Sidiq Vohra of law firm NWR.

At an employment tribunal last March the panel condemned the firm's "canteen
culture" and Jayne was awarded a six-figure sum after winning her claim for
sexual discrimination.

"It was traumatic, but I was really proud of myself," she says. "I refused to
let them get away with it."GETTING PREGNANT COST ME MY CAREERFormer dental nurse
Vicky Matheson, 23, from Jarrow, Tyne and Wear, suffered from discrimination
when she became pregnant.

VICKY excitedly announced her pregnancy to her dentist boss Allen Branley on a
Friday - the following Monday, she was handed a letter.

It said she had failed her six-monthprobation because she'd taken a a day off
sick.

Not only was it the first time a "probation period" had been mentioned, but
nothing was said when she'd been poorly.

Besides, she'd already been in her pounds 11,000-a-year job at the 1A practice
in South Shields for seven months.

"There was a rota where nurses spent a few months assisting each dentist,"
recalls Vicky, whose daughter, Ellie, is now two. "But I impressed Allen and he
asked me to stay with him."

After that, Vicky was subject to a prolonged bullying campaign.

She was discouraged from attending antenatal appointments, and whenever she went
Branley sent her a letter saying she had disobeyed rules by making appointments
in office hours.

In all, Jayne was issued with 13 letters in 11 days with some saying her work
was substandard. After a month, she resigned.

She took Branley to an industrial tribunal, winning pounds 10,000 compensation
for sex discrimination and unfair dismissal. "Allen saw me as an inconvenience,"
says Jayne, who is now pregnant again. "Sexist bosses like him must not be
allowed to get away with it."I got all the worst jobs like cleaning the
toiletEx-cleaner Dawn Ruff, 50, from Norwich, discovered she was earning less
money than a man doing exactly the same job.

DAWN loved her job as a shopping-mall cleaner, taking pride in her work and
enjoying mixing with people.

The single mum-of-three did eight-hour shifts and overtime at weekends. But,
eight months into the job, after a gruelling six-day week, she was disappointed
to find just pounds 178 in her pay packet. Her supervisor from Hannants Cleaning
Services shrugged his shoulders and insisted the company no longer paid
overtime.

Then, to Dawn's astonishment, another supervisor chipped in: "If that makes you
angry, what about the fact the men are paid 60p an hour more than you?"

It turned out Dawn was getting pounds 4 an hour, while her male colleagues got
pounds 4.60.

Outraged, she told them she was sure this was illegal. From that moment, she was
treated like dirt.

"We usually did all the worst jobs on a rota, but I was on loo duty
permanently," Dawn recalls.

When she was off for three days with a kidney infection, her employers were less
than sympathetic. On her return, there was a furious argument and she quit.

Still troubled by the unequal pay, she read up on employment rights and, after a
hearing, an employment tribunal ordered Hannants to pay her pounds 2,540
compensation.

"It is simply not fair to be paid less than a man doing the same job," says
Dawn.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              26 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 27, 2004

IGNORANT BLOOM SHOULD BE KICKED OUT OF OFFICE

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 673 words


MEP Godfrey Bloom caused outrage by saying no small businessman with a brain
would employ women of child-bearing age. The UK Independence Party member
claimed he made the remarks in fun and was pointing out that sometimes the law
works against women. Many readers were disgusted but some did admit to
discrimination.

DOES Godfrey Bloom live on another planet? Has he not heard of the liberation of
women?

Does he not realise that many countries have been, and still are, led by women
and that those women worked when they were of childbearing age?

He said: "No small businessman with a brain should employ women of child bearing
age."

No UKIP party member and Euro MP with a brain should make such derogatory
remarks about women.

TANYA WEEDON

Amersham, Bucks

I AM appalled by these comments. I work hard for a living and I have personally
overseen a contract come into this country which led to 500 jobs being created.

This was done two months before I went on maternity leave. I did this, me - a
woman and a mother. Can Bloom say the same? Does he work as hard as I do? Does
he have the respect of others?

I trust he will apologise to at least half the population and, of course, to his
own mother.

RUTH HICKEY

Kettering, Northants

GODFREY BLOOM'S comments are typical of ignorant, big-mouthed, overpaid, so
called politicians. The quicker these idiots are fast tracked out of office the
better.

The Sun's Tim Spanton wrote in favour of Godfrey Bloom. He seemed to think that
women were on a year's paid holiday when they took maternity leave. Women are
not on a holiday freebie. They are in fact working bloody hard to raise a child.

They leave their jobs and receive only a fraction of their salary.

Then, to top it all off, they have the agonising decision of either going back
to work and putting their beloved child with complete strangers or being a full
time mother, cleaner, nurse, cook and lover - all for no pay.

DEBORAH KEYS

St Albans, Herts

AS a company director I sadly have to admit that at interviews I am swayed
towards employing a male over a female applicant.

This is because of the cost implications of employer's contributions and
maternity pay small companies have to carry.

Even more worrying is male staff demanding time off after a new member of the
family arrives.

BOB MASON

Newcastle upon Tyne

I WAS dismayed at Godfrey Bloom especially as many UKIP members, like myself,
are of the gender he considers should be shackled to the kitchen sink.

Having said that, I work for a small business and have to agree that his points
are relevant.

Even short-term maternity leave results in firms having to pay both the mum
to-be and a temp for some time. Hiring a temp is incredibly expensive, and yet
no compensation is received back in tax breaks from the Government.

Perhaps Mr Bloom - after his wife has stopped throwing things at him - should
consider tackling the red tape in the EU that discriminates both against women
and their employers.

Mr Bloom may be a breath of fresh air in these politically correct days, but a
little tact does help.

SUE HUDSON

Bayswater, W London

THE man said out loud what many people think but never say. This country is
going down the pan with all the PC rubbish.

Women have never had it so good. Not only do they want their cake, they want to
eat it as well and go back for seconds.

KEVIN PALMER

Saffron Walden, Essex

GODFREY BLOOM should wake up to reality. If no women of child-bearing age worked
we would need to recruit even more foreign labour than we do at the moment.

And if all working women never had a child our population would go into terminal
decline. UKIP? More like UK RIP.

JANE MacDONALD

Leicester

I THINK Godfrey Bloom has a point. I got fed up of colleagues going off on
maternity leave as it put a strain on the rest of the staff who were forever
having to do extra work to make up for the shortfall in staff.

BARBARA GARNER

Brighton


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              27 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 27, 2004

IGNORANT BLOOM SHOULD BE KICKED OUT OF OFFICE

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 305 words


MEP Godfrey Bloom has caused outrage by saying no boss with a brain would employ
women of child-bearing age. The UK Independence Party member later said he made
the remarks in fun and was trying to point out that sometimes the law works
against women. Many readers were disgusted.

JUST what planet does Godrey Bloom live on?

He can claim his comments were a joke but they reveal a view that harks back to
the Dark Ages.

For him to say no boss with a brain should employ women of child-bearing age is
offensive. But worse, it gives a green light to other Neanderthals to
discriminate against women.

TINA HOBBS

Glasgow

I WAS appalled by Bloom's comments. Many women do a superb job juggling a career
and motherhood. They face constant discrimination in the workplace and stupid
comments like these don't help.

SAJEED JAFFA

Edinburgh

WHEN I read Euro MP Godffrey Bloom's comments, I didn't

know whether to laugh or feel angry. I thought he was kidding.

The fact that he's not is genuinely worrying.

A dinosaur like him should not be in the position to have any power. The man is
a male chauvinist pig.

JENNY THOMPSON

Glasgow

BLOOM is clearly living in the past. If he is that upset about the standard of
cleanliness behind his fridge, why doesn't he do it himself?

D GRAY

Perth

GODFREY Bloom may have made himself unpopular but he was only saying what many
other people think. Bosses do not want to train someone only for them to leave
when they get pregnant.

KEN CARR

Inverness

BLOOM has done the UK Independence Party few favours. It was a new party trying
to establish some credibility. Now he has blown that.

STEVE WATERS

Edinburgh

GODFREY Bloom is a dinosaur who deserves no place in any parliament. He should
quit.

NICOLA GRANT

Falkirk


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              28 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

Kerry's Boston tea party could yet end in tears

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1274 words


THE CENTRAL question facing the John Kerry campaign is whether to tilt left or
go down the middle this week at the Democratic national convention in Boston.
While American political conventions do not make any important decisions
-everything is arranged in advance -they amount to a four-day opportunity to
showcase the party programme on prime-time television. Even though the broadcast
networks constantly cut back on their coverage of the conventions, cable news
channels more than pick up the slack. In 2000 half of all American voters
watched more than four hours of convention coverage and a quarter, the real
junkies, watched more than six hours.

Historically, the conventions that cater to the party's natural political base
have not done as well for their candidates as those that reached over the heads
of the faithful to the swing voters watching at home. The temptation to win the
applause of the crowd in the convention hall can be overpowering, but too often
highly partisan rhetoric turns off the broader television audience.

In 1988 the Democratic convention tilted leftward with the nomination of Mike
Dukakis. The gathering came to a climax with a high-profile speech by Jesse
Jackson, America's black political leader, which won raves from the faithful but
led the average voter to conclude that the party was beholden to minorities and
special interests. Meanwhile, the Republicans played it better, using their
conclave to reach out to the centre of American voters and values.

The next time around, in 1992, the roles were reversed. The Republicans,
inflamed by Bill and Hillary Clinton, bashed the Democrats all week, focusing on
Clinton's draft avoidance, his extra-marital meanderings, and Hillary's
put-downs of moms who "stay home and bake cookies and serve tea". The Democrats
concentrated on projecting a broad and positive message to America, featuring a
"new covenant" of opportunity coupled with responsibility. Clinton never lost
the lead that the exchange of conventions got for him.

In 1996 the Republican Bob Dole spoke of building a bridge to America's
traditional values, while Clinton featured a "bridge to the 21st century". Game,
set, match to Clinton. By 2000 both parties got the point and kept their
conventions positive, articulating their centrist vision of national progress.
And the election was a tie.

Which way is John Kerry going? Left or centre?

The line-up of speakers advertised in advance would indicate that he may be
making a big mistake and moving too far to the Left. For the first two nights
such certified liberals as former President Jimmy Carter, former Vice-President
Al Gore, and ultra-liberal Senator Ted Kennedy were booked. Bill and Hillary
also appeared last night but as I write it is impossible to know which
incarnation they would assume -the moderation of 1992, the liberalism of
1993-94, the centrism of 1995-97, or the partisan, leftist approach of
1998-2000.

The Republicans seem to know well the need to stay in the centre. Their list of
prospective speakers includes certified moderates such as the California
Governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, whose pro-choice and socially liberal views
make him anathema to the far Right. Senator John McCain, the leader and sole
member of the Republican Party's one-man moderate wing in the Senate will also
speak during prime-time. To round out the roster, the former New York City
Mayor, Rudy Giuliani, pro-gay rights, pro-gun control, pro-affirmative action,
and pro-everything else the Republicans can't stand, will speak in prime time.

Capping their centrist posturing, the Republican convention will also feature
the Democratic apostate Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, a lifelong moderate who
is now supporting George Bush.

The Republican decision to feature centrist speakers is a sleight of hand. None
of their speakers -Schwarznegger, McCain, Miller, or Giuliani -represents the
base of the party. Probably, none could get the nomination to be the Republican
candidate for dog catcher. But, they serve their purpose as centrist ornaments
to display to the public during their convention, while the Democratic Party
seems to be at pains to advertise who and what it really is -the party of the
Left.

This orientation may make for political courage and integrity but it's not good
politics. The spectre of a Ted Kennedy-Al Gore-John Kerry Democratic Party,
celebrating in Boston, the capital of the state the Republicans call the
People's Republic of Massachusetts, is not likely to win a lot of votes.

Kerry's convention also opens under the shadow of the 9/11 Commission report,
which lays the blame for the terror attack on a lack of preparedness in the US.

Since Bush had been on the job for only eight months, the eight years before of
Bill Clinton came in for the lion's share of the blame. Add to that the recently
leaked criminal investigation of Clinton's top National Security Adviser, Sandy
Berger, for spiriting classified material out of the archives and stuffing them
in his pockets and allegedly his socks, the convention's omens are not positive
for Kerry.

Part of the Democrats' problem is that the news has suddenly turned good for
Bush.

Each month brings fresh evidence of new job creation and economic growth
alongside a reduction in American combat fatalities. Having lost 125 soldiers in
April, the US suffered 64 deaths in May but only 31 in June. With Iraq coming
under some kind of control and the economy picking up steam, Kerry could find
the ground crumbling beneath his feet.

For the moment the race is still tied, according to the polls. It hasn't moved
in two months, after Bush recovered from a disastrous April. But the average
convention gives the party a ten-point bounce that takes a long time to wear
off.

If each party's gain offsets the other's, as happened in 1996, there is not much
impact. But if one party bounces and the other stays flat, the conventions can
be the key element in predicting the outcome of the election.

The larger question for Kerry is what to talk about in his convention speech.
Does he try to win the game on Bush's playing field, or switch the action to his
home court?

If he dwells on terrorism and seeks to close Bush's lead in this critical area,
he tends to ratify national security as the key issue in the campaign -Bush's
core area of strength. If he uses the address to roll back the clock to the pre
9/11 issues such as education, the environment, healthcare, drug prices, and
social security, he increases the salience of these core Democratic issues but
at the expense of seeming to be soft on terror.

Since the media has been full of Iraq, terror, 9/11, and other national security
issues to the exclusion of any focus on domestic concerns, Kerry may have no
choice but to play on Bush's turf. But with a roster of liberal speakers, can he
hope to close the gap?

The 9/11 Commission report's finding that bin Laden and Saddam Hussein did not
live on separate planets after all, but had each other's e-mail address, and had
their staffs meet with some frequency, strengthens Bush's hand going into the
convention. And their conclusion that the American, British, and Russian
intelligence services led Bush to believe that Saddam had weapons of mass
destruction undermines the contention of the Left that they were a figment of
the fevered imaginations of White House hawks.

In all, the Democratic convention opened yesterday with plenty for Kerry and Co
to worry about.

Dick Morris was Bill Clinton's chief strategist. He has recently advised the UK
Independence Party


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP will not stand against anti-EU Tories

BYLINE: Anthony Browne and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 708 words


MICHAEL HOWARD hit trouble from the Right flank last night as the UK
Independence Party (UKIP) promised to give a clear run at the next election to
Conservative candidates who back withdrawal from the EU.

In a mischievous move designed to capitalise on a renewed outbreak of internal
Conservative turmoil, the anti-European party told sitting MPs that it would not
put up a candidate if they signed a letter supporting the UKIP's policy of
pulling Britain out.

The move was clearly aimed at destabilising Tory MPs who fear that an
intervention from the UKIP, which took 12 seats in last month's European
elections, could cost them enough votes to make them vulnerable to a Liberal
Democrat or even Labour challenge.

The strategy, which a UKIP source described yesterday as "deliberately very,
very nasty", is aimed at keeping Europe at the heart of the election campaign,
and to force MPs in marginal seats to adopt a more Eurosceptic stance. With the
UKIP achieving about 8 per cent in opinion polls, the party reckons that 20 or
30 MPs will feel sufficiently threatened to sign up to their letter, almost all
of them Conservative.

Those targeted include Richard Shepherd and Bill Cash, both highly Eurosceptic
Conservatives sitting on majorities of under 4,000, and Ian Liddle-Grainger.

The strategy emerged last night as Mr Howard found himself facing a wave of
unrest from Conservative MPs over a new poll indicating that the party is level
pegging with the Liberal Democrats and a report suggesting that the party's
whips were trying to weed out some of the older "sun-tanned" MPs to make way for
a younger breed.

Some of those named were threatening writs and claimed that the report was
inspired by a desire to fill the Tory ranks with ultra-sceptics.

A UKIP source told The Times: "It is counterproductive for us to stand against
an MP who has the same views as us. We'll cause splits, certainly, at grassroots
level in both Labour and Conservative parties. The Tories are the ones who will
feel most vulnerable because they believe that the net effect of the UKIP on the
Conservatives is negative. We might find 20 or 30 Tories that will sign this
letter."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UKIP in the European Parliament, hopes that the
policy will keep the EU issue at the top of the election agenda, just as when
Sir James Goldsmith's Referendum Party made the same threat in the 1997 election
demanding a referendum on the euro. Despite having no electoral history, the
Referendum Party is thought to have unseated as many as 25 Conservatives,
including the former minister David Mellor.

The UKIP's threat will make it far more difficult for Mr Howard to maintain
party unity on its EU policy, which is supportive of membership but wants
various powers to be returned from Brussels to Westminster. "We are going to
give Michael Howard one hell of a headache," Mr Farage said. "Many Conservative
grass roots activists are already so disappointed with their party's EU policy
that they have been actively campaigning for the UKIP."

The UKIP's strategy has to be formally agreed at the party's national executive
meeting in September, but approval is expected since it is supported by Mr
Farage, Roger Knapman, the party's leader, and almost all its MEPs.

The party has just sent out adverts to its 25,000 members asking for candidates
at the general election, expected next year. Applicants will then be filtered
down over the summer, and the party hopes to have adopted more than 500 by the
end of October.

In the last election, it fielded 429 candidates and had a campaign budget of
£1.25 million, but got only 4 per cent of the vote. This time it has a far wider
base of support, with thousands more members, a strong network of local
associations around the country and a better electoral track record.

Meanwhile, a Tory MEP launched a renewed attack on Mr Howard's deal under which
the Conservatives sit with the federalist European People's Party (EPP) in the
Parliament. Roger Helmer, a Eurosceptic MEP for the East Midlands, called the
deal a "cosmetic device" which allowed the EPP to spend more than Pounds 500,000
of "our" parliamentary funding to promote its federalist agenda.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP turnaround

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 6

LENGTH: 48 words


THE anti-EU UK Independence Party won two seats on the London Assembly by vowing
to cut costs. But the UKIP backed Ken Livingstone to "ring-fence" staff from
economy drives, so ensuring that his London body, which spends taxpayers' money
lobbying the EU, will not face the axe.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

Summer battle for Labour and the Lib-Dems

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 384 words


LABOUR and the Liberal Democrats will today begin a summer of intense
campaigning in Peter Mandelson's Hartlepool seat, at least three months before
the by-election. Labour sent two of its most aggressive campaigners to the town
two days after Mr Mandelson accepted the job as European commissioner.

Fraser Kemp, the government whip, and Tom Watson, the rising backbencher who
delivered the by-election win for Labour in Birmingham this month, were both
dispatched to help to defend the seat.

Watson was in Hartlepool yesterday as the walls of the new Labour headquarters
were being painted in readiness for a dogfight with the Lib Dems. He was staying
for a week in the town to prepare Labour's strategy for the summer. "It will be
a longer campaign, I feel it will be less aggressive than in Birmingham," Mr
Watson said.

Mr Mandelson had a 14,500 majority, but both the Lib Dems and the UK
Independence Party did well in local elections.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former broadcaster and now a UKIP MEP, is now hesitating
over whether to stand. Some in the party think that Piers Merchant, the former
Tory MP for Newcastle South and the new UKIP chief executive, who has extensive
local links, would get a less rough ride from opponents.

The by-election now looks set for October, giving Labour's opponents three
months to mount sustained attacks, exactly the time frame the Lib Dems prefer.

The Lib Dems will be the first to select their candidate this week from three
local Hartlepool residents. The party said the shortlist does not include David
Griffiths, the party's treasurer, who has Hartlepool links and had been thought
likely to stand.

"Someone is picking up the keys to the headquarters tomorrow," said a Lib Dem
spokesman. "We're amazed that the by-election hasn't been called earlier, but it
suits us fine," he said.

Labour is due to select a candidate at the end of next week at the earliest. One
possibility is Patrick Diamond, a Downing Street policy adviser. Others thought
it more likely that a local candidate would be chosen.

Options include Ray Mallon, the former detective nicknamed Robocop who was a
detective chief inspector in Hartlepool.

David Bowe, Labour's former Yorkshire MEP, has also declared his wish to stand
for the party.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 26, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Europe does what we want, but we're too bored to notice:
Unlovely and labyrinthine it may be, but the union serves us well

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1137 words


It was one of those moments that seem to sum everything up: I was in Brussels
and on the phone to my native Sheffield, ordering a gift. The chatty bloke with
the familiar accent asked me what I did over there. "Well,"I said, "I write a
lot about the European Union."

"Oh," he answered, with slow, withering Yorkshire sarcasm, "riveting".

No one needs polling evidence to know that most Brits dislike the EU, mistrust
it, are bored by it and know little about it. Occasionally they are beaten by
Danes or Swedes but usually they are at the bottom of the Euroclass in all
categories: least likely to join the single currency, to trust the European
commission or parliament; and highly unlikely to vote yes in a referendum on the
EU constitution - with or without Peter Mandelson to help.

But here's the surprising thing - and one of the strongest impressions I will
take away after four and half years in this job: despite profound hostility and
apathy at home, fed by a corrosive combination of the EU's very real faults,
media demonisation and government timidity - the UK is largely getting its way
in Europe's changing union of states and peoples. Mandelson is not about to
arrive in enemy territory.

It's been true for a while that the EU no longer revolves round the old
Franco-German axis. But May's "big bang" enlargement, a long-standing British
goal that brought in 10 new members from Estonia to Malta, changed the dynamic
for good. Poles, Slovaks and Cypriots don't defer to Paris or Berlin. (And,
infuriating the French, they use the language of Shakespeare, not of Moliere.)
The row over the new president of the commission - running along the Old
Europe/New Europe faultlines exposed by the Iraq crisis - demonstrated that
clearly. "What we all now have to accept is we are operating in a Europe of 25,
not a Europe of six or two or one," Downing Street gloated. The impending
decision to launch membership talks with Turkey promises further transformation
- and a timely message to Muslims that they are not excluded from a "Christian
club".

In the Netherlands, stalwart founder member of the club, mild Euroscepticism is
no aberration. Dutchmen are fed up paying for bloated, trade-distorting
subsidies for French farmers. Portugal's Jose Manuel Barroso, the new commission
chief, will not be walking in the footsteps of Jacques Delors.

The constitution is sadly not the model of clarity and simplicity it was billed
as being, but it does keep the key levers of power in the hands of national
governments. The dreaded "blueprint for tyranny" was always a tabloid and Tory
fantasy; no one actually wanted the "federal superstate" Tony Blair boasted he
had seen off. In the short term, the government did achieve its goals. But if
ever closer union is now little more than a pious aspiration, the new rules will
- if the constitution ever comes into force - allow groups of
integrationist-minded countries to forge ahead at their own pace. Europe may end
up operating at many speeds, not two.

That may not be a big talking point in the Dog and Duck, but Europhiles fear
Britain will be doomed to stay on the fringes as long as it remains outside
Euroland and the Schengen passport-free zone - the two areas where millions of
people are acquiring a tangible sense of the meaning of membership, and which
the newcomers are keen to join.

In current economic conditions, prospects for UK euro membership are clearly
poor: thus the importance attached to underlying structural reforms. Mandelson's
mantra will be "delivery" and "efficiency" - and it will be intriguing to see
what happens when he has to choose between Blair and Barroso over the
commission's ability to promote growth, jobs and competitiveness across the
union.

Arguments for UK withdrawal, in vogue after the low turnout and Eurosceptic
gains in the European elections, ignore Britain's advantages as well as the web
of trading, regulatory, environmental and political interests that link us to
the continent. Some 50% of all national laws now begin life in Brussels and
Strasbourg. Semi-detachment may be manageable - for a while. But quitting the
club would reduce Britain to the status of Norway - obliged to follow EU rules
but powerless to influence them.

Too many Brits, afflicted by what Chris Patten calls "self-contempt", still tend
to see Europe as something inflicted on them by wily foreigners. But others
fight their corners too: the French and Germans flouting budget deficit limits
and protecting their agriculture and industry. Few countries did not raise
objections to the first draft of the constitution; the Spaniards and Poles
battled as hard as Blair did to protect his impassable "red lines".

Little of this is known in Britain, certainly not to readers of the Sun and the
Mail, with their nauseating diet of Europorkies, exaggerations and xenophobia.
Upmarket, the Times and Telegraph are platforms for higher but no less
destructive forms of scepticism.

Even the Guardian, if truth be told, is sometimes less than fascinated by some
of the detail that makes up the big picture. The blunt-speaking man from
Sheffield struck a familiar chord.

None of this is to say that there aren't serious problems with the EU (too big,
too complicated, too remote, too little reform of the CAP, too damned hard to
understand). If the European parliament, for example, is incapable of cleaning
up its "gravy train" image, it will (almost) deserve the wrecking tactics Ukip
has promised.

Blair came to office pledging to bring Britain to the heart of Europe. No honest
observer can disagree that he is a more comfortable and influential player than
his predecessors. But he has dismally failed to bring Europe any closer to the
hearts of Britons. One way to do that could be to tap into concerns about a
unilateralist US by forging stronger EU foreign and defence policies -areas
where the UK, ever the loyal Atlanticist, manages to be both deeply involved and
extremely cautious.

For leftwing critics of the EU who dislike little Englanders of the right,
pooling more sovereignty in Europe -to cooperate over the Balkans and the Middle
East - is surely preferable to blindly doing Washington's bidding.

Trouble looms over the budget rebate. But even without the complications of that
totemic issue, winning the constitutional referendum will require a far greater
effort than Britain's pro-EU camp has ever made before.

The message, though, could be quite simple: unlovely and labyrinthine the EU may
be, but after 30 years it is now enormously important to all our lives - and
we're doing quite nicely thank you.

Ian Black is leaving Brussels to join the Guardian's editorial team in London.
His last Inside Europe column appears next Monday

ian.black@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 26, 2004

Letters: Not a sexist

BYLINE: Dr Kerry Knight

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 101 words


Although in you painted the Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom to be a Neanderthal
misogynist, as a friend of his I can assure you he is nothing of the sort
(Letters, July 23).

For many years he has championed women's rugby at Cambridge and Oxford (not the
actions of a sexist bigot, surely?). During my time as captain at Cambridge, he
helped us make the university see that we were as serious about our sport as the
men. A misogynist? No. A man with a wicked sense of humour, and some strong and
sensible political and social beliefs behind it? That I would agree with.

Dr Kerry Knight

Manchester


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 26, 2004

Media: Media monkey's diary

SECTION: Guardian Media Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 530 words


*Laughs were in short supply at Lord Burns' first public seminar on charter
review last week. So hats off, then, to Howard Davies, the director of the
London School of Economics, who added a little colour to the proceedings. Davies
wondered if the BBC's Building Public Value document might be a little too dry
for its own good. "Like a health food label, it tells you how much bran and
fibre and vitamin A you are getting, but it still tastes disgusting." Let's hope
director general Mark Thompson, who was also at the seminar, didn't find the
comments too hard to digest.

*The UK Independence party's flair for generating headlines showed no signs of
diminishing last week when its spokesman on women's rights said "no small
businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age". Or
should that be no businessman with a small brain? Anyway, guess which newspaper
devoted half a page to telling readers: "Sorry, sisters, he has a point." That's
right, your caring, sharing Daily Mail.

*Everyone knows what a good job Andy Duncan did in sharpening up the BBC's
marketing, but maybe the new Channel 4 chief executive was guilty of going too
far. Take this excerpt from the public responses to the licence fee consultation
published by the department of culture, media and sport last week: "In
particular, respondents remarked BBC1 was rife with self advertisements (and)
promotional pieces that play havoc with the schedule timing". Monkey couldn't
have put it better ourselves. As Lorraine Heggessey starts her fight back this
week - with Mark Thompson saying she is "in the hot seat, not the ejector seat"
- perhaps she'll start with a crack down on the clutter?

*As part of its ongoing efforts to improve the lot of viewers everywhere, Ofcom
is tightening up the code on alcohol advertising, with a particular focus on
making sure it doesn't appeal to children. One option being considered is the
banning of animals in booze ads, which doesn't bode well for those Bacardi ads
with the dancing cat. And what about Famous Grouse? Monkey shudders to think.

*Just when it looked like the BBC's game of musical chairs was going to stop,
along comes another empty chair with Radio 4 boss Helen Boaden's promotion to
director of BBC News. Along with the disappointed TV news candidates like former
Radio 5 Live chief Roger Mosey, Monkey hears of another name being linked with
the Radio 4 job - Radio 1 controller Andy Parfitt. No, seriously. Despite
Parfitt's penchant for exchanging his presenters' slots (swapping Chris Moyles
for Sara Cox, for example), suggestions he will switch John Humphrys for
Gardeners' Question Time chair Eric Robson are apparently wide of the mark.

*Monkey thought Jane Root had left the BBC months ago. Apparently we were wrong,
after hearing that the corporation's director of television Jana Bennett is
throwing a farewell party for La Root in London in late August. Forgive Monkey
for being a bit of a party pooper, but bidding her goodbye five months after she
quit, well, it's not quite the same is it? Less of a farewell, more of a reunion
party. Just make sure those expenses are authorised, Jana . . .


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

LETTER: MANDELSON DOES NOT CARRY ENOUGH RESPECT

BYLINE: MIKE ABBOTT

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 80 words


Sir: Mr Blair must not compound his Mandelson felony by insisting that yet
another New Labour lounge lizard is imposed on the hapless few in the Hartlepool
constituency Labour Party. Only a true "Old Labour" stalwart with local Teesside
roots will retain this seat.

To put in a home counties apparatchik would result in local party alienation, a
clear lack of interest in winning the by-election and the prospect of yet
another UKIP success.

MIKE ABBOTT

Kew, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

Wounded Howard gets summertime blues

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 415 words


MICHAEL HOWARD faced a summer of discontent among his MPs as a poll yesterday
indicated that the Conservatives had dropped to level pegging with the Liberal
Democrats.

The Opposition Leader's last week before the summer recess was widely regarded
to be his worst yet, enough for some in the party to be discussing his successor
only eight months after he got the job.

Michael Portillo said that the party has "started muttering" because of Mr
Howard's failure to mount a clear attack on the Prime Minister on the issue of
Iraq.

Last week Mr Howard said that his stance on the war had changed: he had decided
that he would not have backed the Government if he had known that the
intelligence was flawed.

A senior Conservative source said yesterday that the annual party conference in
October would be crucial for Mr Howard. There he must turn around the flagging
spirits to create any sort of momentum for the next general election, he said.

Although the Populus poll, commissioned by News of the World, indicated that
more than half of voters think that Tony Blair is either an average or poor
Prime Minister, the Conservatives fared badly.

In a general election 30 per cent said that they would vote Labour, while the
Tories were tied on 28 per cent with the Liberal Democrats. It is an especially
embarrassing result after the Conservatives were beaten into third place by the
Liberal Democrats at two by-elections this month.

The poll indicated Tony Blair was also judged to have done best on traditionally
strong Tory vote-winners: the economy and law and order.

Although there is no danger of an imminent plot against Mr Howard, many suggest
that there will be another leadership ballot after the next general election.

Those tipped for the job include Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former Cabinet
minister, who is not currently an MP. He has been selected for the safe seat of
Kensington and Chelsea. Another choice much talked about in the "new guard" of
MPs is David Davies, the Shadow Home Secretary.

Last week Lord Tebbit said that Mr Howard's leadership had been colourless and
he had to move to the right to stop losing votes to the UK Independence Party.

But a Conservative Party spokesman said yesterday that they were aiming at "a
rounded campaign" and would resist such a move. "Of course everyone would like
to see us doing better in the polls, but what people must not do is lose their
nerve.

There is much progress being made."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

Third time unlucky with Peter Mandelson

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1338 words


THE Mandelson appointment may be much worse than they thought. Did Tony Blair
realise what he was doing? Did Peter Mandelson tell him that the European
election results in Hartlepool had been the worst for Labour and the whole of
the North of England? Was the appointment yet another of those off-the-cuff,
sofa and cups of coffee decisions, part of the light entertainment of the modern
governance of Britain? After all, the abolition of the Lord Chancellor, the Dome
and the dossier had all been decided in the same amateur dramatic style, as
though cast for Act 1, Scene 1, in a Terence Rattigan social comedy. Was it
"anyone for tennis?" followed equally casually by "Peter for Brussels?"

One could hardly have expected Mr Mandelson to point out the great defect in the
appointment, which must have been obvious enough to the Prime Minister himself.
Mr Mandelson is one of the most unpopular Members in the House of Commons, and
the least trusted. He suffers from the Richard Nixon syndrome, "tricky Dicky",
"would you buy a used car from that man?". He is distrusted and by some he is
feared.

I remember once seeing President Nixon in the back seat of a black limousine,
behind those sinister tinted windows, being driven through New York in the rain.

There was a sad and self-pitying expression of stress that made him seem almost
like a ghost in the car. Peter Mandelson has the same type of political image;
his high ability and intelligence are baffled by some psychological unease that
can neither be expressed nor concealed. I have never seen greater psychological
pain on an election night than his "I am not a quitter" speech in 2001. After
all, Mr Mandelson had held his seat; Michael Portillo showed less distress when
he lost his seat in 1997, and the prospective leadership of his party with it.
The other aspect of his personality which most alienated other politicians,
particularly in his own party, is his reputation for ruthlessness.

His colleagues feel that he never showed them any mercy in the rough and tumble
life of the Labour Party; twice, when he was in trouble, he was himself shown no
mercy even by his closest associates. Mr Mandelson thinks his second dismissal
from the Cabinet was actually unfair; perhaps it was.

Such men can be valuable in politics, as Peter Mandelson was before 1997; they
sometimes climb higher than he ever has, or now ever will. They are particularly
useful as ministers to princes who wish to polish their own popularity, while
letting the public blame someone else for their darker actions. Mr Mandelson
makes a premier cru scapegoat.

Yet this third promotion is a great blunder. The whole future of Mr Blair's
European policy depends on trust, a commodity in short supply in his
administration. The referendum on the constitution, if it ever happens, will be
decided by trust. Will we all trust the assurances the Prime Minister is bound
to give that the new European constitution is a minor administrative adjustment
that will not damage or destroy the independent democracy of Britain?

When we read the constitution, we see that it transfers major powers from
Britain to Europe, but does not transfer any powers back from Europe to Britain.
It is a one-way street. Mr Blair will tell us that this does not matter, that he
can be trusted as the protector of British interests. Will we believe him? Will
the appointment of Peter Mandelson as a European commissioner make any of us
more likely to trust the Prime Minister? Or is it a question of the devious
master appointing an even more devious crony?

An ICM opinion poll in Saturday's Daily Mail asked the straight question: "Do
you trust Tony Blair?" Two per cent do not know; 36 per cent do trust him; 61
per cent do not. Asked whether Blair was "honest over Iraq's weapons of mass
destruction", 59 per cent said "dishonest", including 67 per cent of 18 to
24-year-olds. So much for debating triumphs in the House of Commons.

In the same poll, by 48 per cent to 23, people picked the economy as the area of
greatest improvement since Labour came to power. Yet this is the area that the
Prime Minister, to an unprecedented and unhealthy degree, delegated to Gordon
Brown, his Chancellor. Mr Mandelson is cordially disliked by Mr Brown, whose
associates have never hesitated to undermine him.

Mr Blair has recently let it be known that, subject to the decision of the
electorate, he plans to remain Prime Minister for another five years. That would
shut out Mr Brown. The return of Mr Mandelson will do nothing to ease the
difficult relationship of the Prime Minister and the Chancellor. It is like a
pair of yapping terriers barking at a bear -a dangerous sport for the terriers.

If he loses Gordon Brown, Tony Blair can neither win the next election nor the
European referendum. Nigel Lawson's resignation as Chancellor signalled the end
of Margaret Thatcher's prime ministership; Mr Brown is a more formidable
Chancellor and Mr Blair is a less formidable Prime Minister.

All of these things must have been as obvious to Tony Blair as to Peter
Mandelson, or indeed to the rest of us. But I doubt whether Mr Blair had kept up
to date with the detail of Hartlepool election statistics, though Mr Mandelson
must have followed them. Mr Blair may not have noticed the remarkable UKIP
result in the June European elections in Hartlepool. Labour did indeed still
come first, with 32.5 per cent of the vote, but that has to be compared with the
59.2 per cent of the vote that Labour gained in the general election of 2001.
The Labour vote had fallen by nearly half.

The UKIP came second, with 19.8 per cent; Hartlepool was the best result for the
UKIP in any of the three regions of the North of England. Indeed, Hartlepool was
the only voting district in the North East in which the UKIP managed to come
second. The Conservatives came third with 17.0 per cent, and the Liberal
Democrats a poor fourth, with 13.4 per cent.

The swing from Labour to the UKIP was more than 23 per cent; most of the UKIP's
support came not from the Tories but from previous Labour voters. The
exceptional scale of the swing against Labour must be attributed partly to Peter
Mandelson's role as the leading Labour advocate of European integration.

One can never forecast the result of a by-election three months ahead, but I do
not expect that this will be a victory for the Lib Dems, or indeed the Tories.

Robert Kilroy-Silk would make a strong candidate for the UKIP; his European
election leadership in the East Midlands produced remarkably good results; as a
professional, he is particularly effective on television. In the Hartlepool
by-election, a strong UKIP candidate could hope to draw further support away
from Labour. It will take a strong Labour campaign to keep the UKIP out.

Yet a UKIP victory in the Hartlepool by-election would be a disaster for Labour,
much worse than its customary defeats by the Lib Dems. It would be a striking
by-election reverse a few months before the probable date of the general
election.

It would demonstrate that the UKIP can take solid Labour, working-class votes in
solid Northern Labour seats.

After June's European elections Labour, with a mere 22.6 per cent of the
national vote, comforted itself with the reflection that the UKIP had also taken
votes from the Conservatives, with 26.7. But, despite UKIP gains, the
Conservatives have won the past two European elections, in 1999 and last June.
They would expect to do well in a general election fought on the European
constitution. The UKIP is a serious challenge to the Conservatives, and Michael
Howard, but it is the challenge of opportunity.

For Labour the forthcoming by-election could become the Hartlepool horror.

Bringing back Peter Mandelson has already caused dissent and resentment in the
Labour Party; he may not be a quitter, but he is certainly a splitter. It could
also open the gate of the next general election to UKIP and to the
Conservatives.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 25, 2004

TONY'S HOT IN BOTHER

BYLINE: by NEIL CHANDLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair was in a sweat yesterday after his decision to send
old pal Peter Mandelson to Europe sparked a political storm.

The PM is under fire for giving the job of Britain's new European Union
commissioner to Mandelson, twice forced to resign from the Cabinet over separate
sleaze scandals.

Mr Blair warned leftwingers a return to the infighting of the past could cost
Labour an historic third term in power.

He told the National Policy Forum at Warwick University: "We have given up the
luxury of criticism for the obligation of decision."

Lib Dem parliamentary party chairman Matthew Taylor said: "After acting so
divisively by appointing Peter Mandelson to Europe, the Prime Minister's calls
for unity seem a little rich."

Tory co-chairman Liam Fox added : "This was a classic piece of ham acting by
Britain's fantasistin-chief."

Robert Kilroy-Silk is "seriously considering" standing in the by-election caused
by Mandelson's Euro move.

The UKIP MEP said he was "coming under considerable pressure" from the party to
run for the Hartlepool seat.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              39 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 25, 2004, Sunday

SEXISM: ARE WOMEN CASHING IN?;
 A SERIES OF VICTORIES FOR WOMEN IN HIGH-PROFILE SEX-DISCRIMINATION

BYLINE: MELANIE MCDONAGH, BEATRIX CAMPBELL Claims of sex discrimination are
being made against British Airways by former air stewardesses (above) and
against Merrill Lynch by Stephanie Villalba (left), who is claiming pounds 7.5m;
Women can find themselves subjected to discrimination, public scrutiny or
ridicule, whether they work outside or in the home

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1571 words


Melanie

McDonagh

YESFew people are entirely immune from the attractions of making enormous
amounts of money from litigation, especially if the matter of legal fees is
taken care of by the no-win-no-fee system. If the case is taken against an
unlovely corporation which can afford it, why not? And if you can also claim to
be benefiting your entire gender, why, you'd be a fool to yourself not to
exploit the cash potential of sex discrimination.

Over the past few weeks there have been a number of eye-catching cases
apparently based on this reasoning, from the good - like last week's group
action by BA stewardesses who had to start again at the bottom of the career
ladder after taking time out for maternity leave - to the unimpressive, such as
that element of Stephanie Villalba's claim for pounds 7.5m from Merrill Lynch
relating to her being asked to pour drinks on a business flight.

Their combined effect has not been happy. What your average employer comes away
with is a vague sense that women employees spell trouble - whether it's the
Equal Opportunities Commission on your case for asking a woman to pour the tea
at a meeting or the prospect that your business can be disrupted by a key
employee taking up to a year off every time she has a baby, before returning to
the same position as before.

The most telling comment on the whole business was from Ronnie Fox, a senior
partner at an employment law firm, who remarked that he would routinely ask any
woman coming to him with a grievance: "Was there an element of sexual
discrimination? Why not just throw it in so we can claim more money?"

Everyone had a good laugh this week at the expense of the UKIP man in the
bowler, Godfrey Bloom. The new MEP remarked that "no small businessman with a
brain in the right place would hire a lady of child-bearing age". Of course, he
only does it to annoy, because he knows it teases, but the man was expressing
the view of a swathe of the CBI as well as family firm employers who might have
only a couple of dozen staff.

Generous maternity rights are just dandy if you're talking about the civil
service or indeed BA, but quite another matter for firms that employ about a
dozen people. And what about the self-employed? Does a woman running a hair
salon give herself a year off ?

Obviously, sex discrimination in corporate Britain and America exists. There is
also discrimination on the grounds of class and education. A couple of decades
ago, your chances of advancement in the City could have been usefully assisted
by being a Freemason, which not only left women out of the loop, but Catholics
as well. We're starting from a pretty low base here. But if we're talking about
the City - and the most high-profile cases are against investment banks - the
system provides the remedy as well as the problem.

Those women who earn half a million a year and complain - capitalism makes for a
wonderful loss of perspective - that their bonuses are smaller than those of
their male colleagues do not inspire universal sympathy.

The reason anyone gets paid such a sum is that they generate business. If they
feel they are getting short shrift from one firm, the answer is to move
elsewhere, taking their know-how, clients and contacts with them. Investment
banks are gender-blind to the extent that profit-generation is what they're for,
not the perpetuation of patriarchy. If you lose a woman fund-manager whom your
clients trust because you treat her badly, then your overall performance suffers
and the competitor she moves to is laughing. Simple as that.

Allison Schieffelin was awarded pounds 6.5m when Morgan Stanley bought off a
class action brought by 350 female employees. She felt that she had been left
out of the firm's corporate bonding sessions which took place at strip joints
and Las Vegas casinos.

"This settlement benefits everyone," she said afterwards. Can I take issue with
that? When employers have to think hard about employing women because they may
sue on the grounds of gender, I'm not sure that she's done much for women.
Except one.

Beatrix

Campbell

NOWhat is it about some women that makes them shrug off the sisterhood when one
gets pounds 1m from a global corporation desperate to shut us up? City lawyer
Elizabeth Weston has just been paid such a sum after bringing a sexual
harassment and discrimination case against one of the world's serial offenders,
Merrill Lynch.

Her protests through the proper channels reaped a whirlwind of corporate
cruelty. She is not alone. Wall Street and City women, gladiators in their
chosen professions, are at last confronting the leading edge of global finance.
They're not pussycats, they've chosen their careers in ferocious cultures
untouched by modern manners or the vaunted feminisation of the workplace.
Whether we like challengers such as Weston is irrelevant - it is the awkward,
embarrassing cases that change things.

Merrill Lynch, like Morgan Stanley, another serial offender, is paying out
millions, and likely to pay out many more, to shield its system - sexism - from
public scrutiny. Revelation would harvest such obloquy that the company would
have to send its entire workforce on a course: How Not to be Sexist. It would
not hurt. It would save money and reputation. The world would be better for it.
But no, the bosses would rather not. Their sexism is worth everything to them,
it seems.

Then there's the columnist employed to rubbish other women. Mariella Frostrup,
for example, thrilled by the attentions of the builders next door, wondered last
week what was the matter with Weston who complained about a drunk boss at the
Christmas party offering seasonal sexist benediction.

These women never understand power, not least their own. They're so traditional,
they don't know that disrespect is built into their own contract of employment.
They've got a talent for scorn that will always alight upon some poor soul who
is having a go, trying to sort something out. Global corporations dispense
millions to fortify themselves against a regiment of high-flying gladiators
whose devastating stories tell us what corporate sexism really means. It ruins
lives. And these women's protests probably ruin their careers. Weston will
discover what everyone who has ever pursued a discrimination case knows: even if
you win, you lose. You need to take the money because you may never work again.

Pious commentators are only ingenues in a bigger, dirtier game. They rescue the
real baddies, the corporations and their craven New Labour friends who not only
tolerate but affirm their unfettered dominion. The effect is shattering. Sexual
harassment and sexist pay systems have made the City one of the most inequitable
places - the pay gap between the genders is 43 per cent. Among Britain's
graduates in Britain, the pay gap is the same as it was when the Equal Pay Act
was introduced in the 1970s.

But something is afoot: without any political champions on either side of the
Atlantic, women are taking on the corporate culture of the financial giants.
Their courage should be rewarded. It is time this government took their side.
Barbara Castle was shamed into reforming the law when the Ford sewing machinists
went on strike in 1968 over an equal pay claim that could not be satisfied
within the wages system. We need state intervention and a cultural revolution.

Morgan Stanley paid $ 12m recently to a Wall Street bond saleswoman to silence
the "salacious testimony" that would have been aired if her case came to court.
The shaming thing about these cases is what they tell us that we can't bear to
hear about both the scale and seriousness of sexual harassment. These aren't
exceptions to the culture, they are the culture.

Women who protest against such actions, or turn away from them to entertain us
with whimsy about the builders, don't trouble themselves with the incremental
disgust that is making women who do stronger, even when they take on some of the
richest men on the planet. In going to the courts and going public, women like
Weston have to do something they don't want to do: draw attention to their
bodies, disclose uninvited intrusions and fantasies, lay bare what they wanted
to keep to themselves: that is, themselves. Think about it, girl.

Godfrey Bloom, My Week, page 25

A POET SUES HIMSELF FOR HARASSMENT

Sex discrimination, love?

I know the way you feel

Being self-employed, a poet

I've been through the whole ordeal

Stuck here with these stanzas

By myself for the duration

It only took a day or two

Before the first flirtation.

Harmless little compliments

I paid myself some mornings

Presaged grimmer incidents

Despite my written warnings

Until that awful Friday

At the office bash last winter

I fondled my own buttocks

In a corner by the printer

I've barely spoken to myself

Since then and as employer

As well as sole employee

I am hopeful that my lawyer

Will find us some way forward

So it won't drag on for years

Yet still I'm being suggestive -

Which reduces me to tears

I'm confident the court case

May restore my reputation

It's not a case of doing it

To cream the compensation

But if this trend continues

I can visualise a time

When all this litigation

May affect how poems finish.

Martin Newell is the IoS' Poet in Residence

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 25, 2004, Sunday

MY WEEK: GODFREY BLOOM

BYLINE: GODFREY BLOOM

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 730 words


The newly elected UK Independence Party MEP aroused fury this week with a flip
remark about women cleaning behind the fridge

Sunday. I am off for my first stint as an MEP in Strasbourg. I have never been
before and am amazed that it is so difficult to get to. Humberside to Amsterdam,
Amsterdam to Strasbourg. It is going to take the better part of eight hours. I
am met at the airport by Anna Crossley of the BBC Politics Show. She is going to
be with me for a few days while I settle in.

My first photograph as an MEP in London showed me in my bowler hat, my usual
headwear in the City. Everyone has asked me to bring it to Strasbourg, so I
oblige. I would not usually wear it outside London.

Monday. Very tired this morning, the flight was delayed and finding somewhere
for dinner in Strasbourg late on a Sunday night is not easy. Mid-morning I get
to the Parliament building - a truly awesome structure, which matches the
Brussels Parliament in its appetite for public money - to take over my office
and nose about.

Anna and I return to the old town centre for lunch and walk about. I am
desperately keen to practise my poor French and let myself be filmed ordering
"en francais". Anna sabotages me by ordering a diet cola and I make a mess of
it. I have to suffer the indignity of telephone calls from nieces and nephews
straightening up mistakes. If she had asked me for mineral water I would have
been alright. Out late for dinner, led astray as always by UKIP's leader Nigel
Farage.

Tuesday. I am put forward for the Parliament's Internal Market Committee where I
can use my financial background. There is a space on the Women's Committee, I
let my name go forward. Commercial experience is rare on such committees.

I send a subliminal message to my wife about cleaning behind the fridge, an old
family chestnut in our house. The interview starts and I explain my views on the
laws of unintended consequences when it comes to employment. I make a statement
of the blindingly obvious about the fears of small employers taking on young,
married women. I apologise there and then for it not being politically correct
but just a fact of life.

Wednesday. After another late night under the same malign influence, I arrive at
the Parliament building to find that the press back home has splashed me over
the pages as a baby-eating, misogynist monster. Mrs Kinnock calls me Neanderthal
and is apparently after me with an axe. I wonder if Mrs Kinnock has ever run a
small business. She makes no such claim later on Radio Scotland in our debate.
The lines are blocked with supporting businessmen. The same happens later on
Radio Devon. What a gulf between real people and the political/media alliance.

Thursday. The whole thing has got out of hand. I am denounced by the glamorous
Mrs Mussolini in the Parliament chamber in a bogus point of order. Telephone
calls all morning, one

from the director of Cambridge University

Women's Rugby Club offering support for me on a personal level.

A female Guardian reporter telephones me to ask do I have driving gloves? Was I
a Rotarian? Do I play golf? No, on all these counts, and she seems to lose
interest. I am tempted to ask if she eats brown rice and wears sandals. My
fellow MEPs are magnificent and supportive, although some of the
misrepresentation cannot have helped. Kilroy and wife Jan are fantastic - I
didn't really know them before. I am still recovering from a party with our
fellow group members from eight different countries. Am I not supposed to be a
xenophobe?

Friday. Up at four o'clock to catch the plane home. Now deeply tired. Mrs Bloom
has been complaining of being besieged by the press. We live in a tiny village
and she has a physiotherapy practice and also takes part in horse competitions.
Apparently, the patients cannot get in for reporters. So far she has not given
any interviews, although she swept the board at Great Driffield Show with the
horses. I cannot believe she will not give in to temptation to talk about that.
I see Wednesday's Yorkshire Post, the front page written by someone I've never
heard of or spoken to. I stumble into the kitchen at about midday. There is a
note on the table. She has gone to visit her mother, has given one interview to
somebody but will not say who. The fridge is not quite in the right place. Why
do I feel uneasy?

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              41 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Only the UKIP can save Tories from disaster

SECTION: FB; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 1482 words


The growing dangers of politically correct movements, especially those that
emanate from Europe, will strike fear into those who remember similar
restrictive measures such as the clampdown on free speech, travel and news
reporting by the Nazi and Soviet regimes that existed on the Continent in the
Thirties.

Like many oldies, I fear the encroaching domination by a Europe that,
historically, has never shared either a liking or a respect for British
individualism but instead seeks universal conformity.

No major political party has so far been prepared to debate these differences in
outlook, tradition and culture, which are of deep concern to many British
people.

This deliberate avoidance of the subject will result in massive gains for the
UKIP at the next General Election at the expense of the Conservative Party,
leaving the Liberal Democrats as the party of opposition to a severely weakened
Labour Party.

The only hope for the Tories is for the main body of the party to abandon the
Europhile wing and embrace the UKIP. The alternative for our country is to end
up as an offshore region of Federal Europe.

Mike Nelson Saffron Walden, Essex

Ticket to a filthy ride Conditions on trains are getting worse and worse, if my
experiences on GNER are anything to go by.

When my partner and I caught a GNER train from London to Glasgow we were
horrified at the condition of the seats. As well as being dirty, many of the
covers were ripped off and the people unfortunate enough to have reserved them
had to lay their coats over the filth before sitting down.

The carpets throughout the carriage were a disgrace, too.

To make matters worse, it was a very warm day and the air conditioning was
broken.

We always book coach D as it's advertised as the 'quiet coach'.

However, as usual, the whole journey was spent listening to people screaming
into their mobiles while other passengers screamed at them to be quiet and the
GNER personnel ignored everything and simply left the carriage.

All this unpleasantness and it cost us more than Pounds 70 each.

Name and address supplied

LETTER OFROF THE WEEK It is a crying shame that yet another symbol of our
heritage and culture is in danger of being thrown on the back burner. I refer to
the Honours system.

Most British people believe the system has been abused. We are not blessed with
good management of our country and this is another case where something
worthwhile has been allowed to be degraded.

There have been far too many Knights and Dames and their selection is regularly
criticised for not being worthy of the honour; the concentration being on
showbusiness, football or the civil service.

The criticisms have been ignored, to the point where there is now very little
intellectual argument left for the Honours system's retention.

I don't think the human spirit for achievement or charity to others will suffer
if we get rid of the Honours system but to lose a way of recognising bravery is
another matter.

Douglas Wathen Evesham, Worcestershire

Potential is everything The suggestion by Arthur Turner (Letters) that the
admissions process at universities such as Exeter is a 'prejudicial, two-tier
system' is ludicrous. Admissions officers select according to the potential
capabilities of applicants, and exam results are just one means of gauging this
potential.

If a student gains top grades in an inner city state school in a deprived area,
then this does mark a greater achievement than that of a student gaining the
same grades at a well funded, well resourced school, independent or state.

Those with the potential to succeed at top institutions have nothing to fear
from the admissions process. They also have everything to play for.

Wes Streeting Cambridge University Students' Union Stop this plunder The cockle
beds of Morecambe Bay cannot stand the assault of extraction for much longer.
These gangs of itinerant labourers have no idea of the life cycle of the cockle
and assume there will always be more to plunder. This is not the case and our
once plentiful shellfish will join the long list of species driven to extinction
by man's greed.

Bob Fletcher Nuneaton, Warwickshire

Whytarget Natasha?

Named and shamed The Duchess of York Was it really necessary to slag off Natasha
Kaplinsky (The Vamp, Femail)? Surely her love life is her own business and,
since she is reasonably well educated, her success is probably not just down to
feminine charm. She is a talented dancer and deserved to win Strictly Come
Dancing. What a lot of sour grapes from her ex-colleagues, whoever they might
be.

I object strongly to Alison Child's opinions on choices of name (Letters).

The name chosen for me has been something of a burden, thanks to certain
comedians who portray people with my name as bottle-blondes with not a brain
cell between them. When I was at school I worked extremely hard, despite the
teasing of one of the worst bullies in my class who was called ... Alison.

P. A. Finegan Sheffield Sharon Wadsley Lytham, Lancashire ... I agree that
parents should show some responsibility when naming their offspring. I gave mine
three names each in case they didn't like my choice. Two of them eventually
chose one of their 'standby' names.

H. J. Llewellyn Fladbury, Worcestershire Some of your readers may have been left
with the impression, from your article last week, that the relationship between
The Duchess of York and Mr Robert Splaine is, or has been, inappropriately
intimate. This would be an entirely inaccurate representation of their
friendship, which is platonic. The Duchess's support for Mr Splaine's Olympic
aspirations is a reflection of their longstanding friendship.

Penny Furniss Press Secretary to The Duchess of York B U L L E T P O I N T S .
It has become abundantly clear that unless Mr Blair abdicates in favour of one
of Messrs Brown, Livingstone, Prescott or A.

N. Other, the next Labour Prime Minister may well not yet have been born.

Alan Hunter Stockport, Greater Manchester . The antisocial behaviour and
thuggery by youths that ruins the lives of so many people in many parts of the
country will be conquered only by the reintroduction of corporal punishment and
compulsory military service.

J. C. Stone Clacton-on-Sea, Essex . That awful woman in her 4x4 (Letters) must
be the same obnoxious, arrogant, selfish toad who tries to run me down when I
struggle to push my 36-year-old quadriplegic daughter in her wheelchair on our
daily walks.

Daphne Bell Lichfield, Staffordshire . In my experience, the only time most 4x4
drivers go off-road is when they park on the pavement.

. Chronic asthmatic Michael Spittles (Letters) should boycott pubs and patronise
licensed restaurants where there are usually non-smoking areas.

. Our armies are cut but our police and wardens swell in numbers. Does our
threat now come from within?

Steve Wollington Basildon, Essex A. Gulka London SW1 Anne Bailey Thurning,
Norfolk

STATISTICALLY SPEAKINGSPEAKING Proportion of surveyed men who feel they can
steer a shopping trolley better than a woman: 70% Year the first pedestrian was
killed by a car (in Croydon, England): 1896; speed of the car: 4mph Number of
curls in Shirley Temple's hair: 56 Largest hands on a living person (from wrist
to tip of middle finger): 10.6 inches Official number of deaths in the Great
Fire of London: 6 Number of symphonies composed by Haydn: 104 Year the world's
first crossword puzzle appeared (in New York World): 1913 Gestation period for
an elephant: 670 days; a cat: 63 days; a rat: 22 days Let's deal with yobs the
Canadian way The Government's talk of cracking down on antisocial behaviour and
binge drinking is too little too late. I, like many, have found that I have
become excluded from my local town centre on a Friday or Saturday night as the
level of violence from alcohol-fuelled morons escalates.

When you add the fact that the language in the pubs has deteriorated to such a
level that I would be embarrassed to take any lady into one, you are left with a
sense of disbelief as to what has happened within this country.

Drunkeness, violence and atrocious behaviour have become the norm.

On a recent visit to Canada, there was no sign of binge drinking, no vomit, no
violence in the bars on a Friday or Saturday night.

The venues were lively, with good entertainment, and, most of all, fun.

There, police keep an eye on the streets and will arrest anyone who is drunk in
public. They will also fine the landlord, bar staff or both if they have allowed
someone to become inebriated within their establishment. If you have had a few,
they will simply turn you away if you try to buy any more.

Canada made me embarrassed for what we have allowed our nation to become.

Mike Price Wantage, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              42 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Mr Speaker must be seen to be cleaner than clean

SECTION: FB; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 513 words


THE Speaker of the House of Commons holds a post of great honour and prestige.
His authority ultimately depends on his being above suspicion.

The current holder of this office, Michael Martin, claims large sums of public
money to pay his wife, though she does little or no constituency work.

He will not answer questions about whether these payments are justified.

Parliamentary officials have privately protested to him about these claims.

He also declines to explain why he collects generous housing grants, hardly
necessary given that he occupies a majestic grace-and-favour residence in the
Palace of Westminster.

After a Mail on Sunday investigation, former MP Martin Bell, who says he has
evidence from a whistleblower that the payments to Mr Martin are questionable,
has now asked the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards to intervene.

It is unknown, in modern times, for the Speaker to be placed in such a position.
An official probe would inevitably damage the standing of one of the most
important figures in our democracy. It would surely be better if Mr Martin now
gave a full explanation of his affairs.

Clipping Andrew's wings

PRINCE Andrew is rapidly becoming an asset to Britain's anti-monarchy movement.
If there was ever a time when the public would happily pay for RAF flights to
ferry minor Royalty from golf course to golf course, those days have gone.

Monarchy needs majesty and dignity, and most taxpayers are still willing to
ensure that the Queen goes about her business in suitable style. Others in the
Royal Family need to justify their journeys. If it can be shown that the
Prince's travels benefit the country as a whole, then well and good.

But golf, however much it may enthuse those who enjoy it, hardly qualifies as
work of national importance. It is entirely the Prince's own fault that his
expeditions are now being scrutinised by the National Audit Office, which until
recently would not have dared to inquire into such matters.

If he does not swiftly learn the limits of public patience, Prince Andrew will
endanger not just his own position, but that of the monarchy as a whole.

These boys' own goals

SOME men seem determined to confirm the fashionable feminist view that the male
sex is irredeemably stupid and probably doomed to die out.

Hard on the heels of UKIP's proposal that women should clean behind the fridge
comes a claim from a male professor that he has proved men are cleverer than
women, once they reach the age of 16. His 'evidence' is so feeble that some
might say it proves the opposite. Traditional examinations, in which men tend to
do better, were designed for a more masculine world than the one we now live in.
Women-only colleges at Oxford and Cambridge have suffered since the grander
establishments went co-ed, and creamed off many of the best female students.

Why can't both sexes accept that men are better at some things and women better
at others, uniform equality is pointless and dangerous and, above all, we cannot
manage without each other?

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              43 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Why losing a (small) war would do us all some good

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1058 words


BRITAIN urgently needs to lose a small war. Unless we do so, we shall sooner or
later lose a large one and that will be the end of us.

Our armed forces have for years been too competent for their own good. Their
success has allowed cheapskate, dishonest politicians to starve them of money
and damage them with silly ideas.

Only determination, personal courage and tradition have kept them going.

They have under both the Useless Tories and Anti-British New Labour had little
ammunition or fuel for training. Individual soldiers have to buy proper
equipment out of their own pockets.

Political correctness has been imposed on them. They have also been lucky to be
sent out against opponents who, for the most part, were even worseequipped than
they were.

The false belief that we still have proper capable armed services has persisted
long after it stopped being true. If ever they faced a serious enemy at short
notice, they would be in trouble. This isn't because they're not brave but
because, in the end, courage can't overcome better equipment and training.

Now they are to be attacked again. And the proposed cuts will most certainly
happen, unlike the fake reductions in the Civil Service. Anthony Blair is happy
to sack soldiers, sailors and airmen. They are among the few public servants who
might not vote Labour.

THOSE he can't and won't sack are outreach workers, condom distributors and NHS
target-chasers, the army of paid supporters hired with your tax money in an act
of jobbery and corruption so huge and shameless that it is accepted without
question as normal. It is no good saying that there is no obvious purpose for
the armed forces. Ninety years ago this very day, a wholly peaceful Britain was
entirely unaware that within eight days it would be pulled into the most
destructive war in human history a war largely caused by our failure to build a
proper army before 1914.

Almost all wars come as a surprise. A country which does not have serious armed
forces tells the world that it no longer values its liberty and independence.
Also, our forces are sustained in their discipline and morale by the knowledge
that they inherit a centurieslong tradition of valour.

The proposed vandalism will destroy the very things ancient names and continuity
which make this possible.

Once gone, they cannot be rebuilt. And we shall be naked in an unpredictable,
dangerous world. Only a government which hates this country could do this.

HOW shameful that Britain voted at the UN to condemn Israel's sensible wall
against terror, an effective and legitimate way of stopping the murder of
children. I don't recall the UN mustering a vote against terrorist murder
lately. It's too busy picking on Israel which, for all its many faults, is
hardly the worst country in the world. I wonder why that would be?

A ninny in a bowler ... but he's got a point

UKIP's Godfrey Bloom, left, is a ninny. I had no idea any real human beings
still wore bowler hats. But if an attractive, fashionably dressed young
businesswoman had said the same thing about employing women of childbearing age,
who could have argued with it?

As for women cleaning behind the fridge, I suspect most of the leftists, male
and female, who have been most outraged by this remark have never looked behind
their fridges, because they pay immigrant servants to do the job.

OF COURSE the crime figures are made up. So are all the others, especially
inflation, unemployment and 'educational achievement'. What beats me is why
anyone takes any official statistics seriously at all any more.

LEAVING for work later than usual, I caught Radio 4's Thought For The Day, in
which a bishop of the Church of England actually defended the family.

Was I dreaming?

GORDON BROWN MMR Watch, week 6: No word yet on whether the young Brown will be
having the injection, but the Chancellor is still paying doctors' bonuses with
your money if they manage to persuade a large enough number of parents to let
their toddlers be jabbed.

I'll miss Foot, a very English thorn in the side of authority

I SHALL miss Paul Foot, the campaigning journalist, pictured right. I shall
specially miss his voice, one of the last living examples of the confident
upper-middleclass accent, quite unashamed. Foot thought he was a Marxist, but
actually he was something much better an old-fashioned English radical who never
believed or trusted authority.

If Blair despises the 60s why did he knight Jagger?

WHILE many commentators who should have known better were still swooning over
him, I warned against Anthony Blair.

I knew him to be an empty, shallow creature hired by the Labour Party to promote
the falsehood that it had become patriotic and pro-middle class.

The Blair project was conceived in cynicism and dishonesty, and has been kept in
being by lies, told boldly and repeatedly by people without scruple.

This has now reached the point where nobody at the heart of New Labour can
distinguish between truth and falsehood. These contemptible people only escape
punishment because the Tories have themselves become a party of the liberal
Left.

On all the really important issues defence of the family, proper education,
patriotism, public and private morality, crime and punishment, pornography the
Conservative Party has adopted the ideas of the Left and so can't fight them.

These ideas, which began to be fashionable in the Sixties, are the direct reason
for the decay, lawlessness, ignorance and moral squalor that surround us today.
It is time they were challenged, opposed and defeated.

Many sensible people, even on the Left, are beginning to understand that sexual
licence, a neutered criminal justice system, readily available drugs, the crude
exploitation of the female body for money, easy divorce and the devaluing of
true knowledge while talentless rock stars and footballers grow rich have
created a hell for the weak, old and poor.

Anthony Blair, that squalid liar, pretends in a creepy speech to be concerned
about it. But Mr Blair, the man who knighted Mick Jagger, the man whose
Government floods the streets with dope and drink and vomit, which plans to
bring Las Vegas to Britain, the man whose Government hacks away at the
institution of marriage, really couldn't care less.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              44 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Mandy. . . the panto villain we love to hiss

BYLINE: SUZANNE MOORE

SECTION: FB; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1022 words


HE IS, as he so memorably told us, 'a fighter, not a quitter'. And he's back,
the real Slim Shady.

Arise Sir Peter Mandelson, Prince of Darkness.

Perhaps he isn't yet a sir, but he should be. He should also, I think, wear a
black cloak and have a long waxed moustache that he could twirl wickedly.

For Peter Mandelson exists not simply to hold Tony's hand but to entertain us.

I wrote last week about how the Labour Party had virtually ceased to exist under
Blair and if anything confirms this, it is the resurrection of Mandelson as our
European Commissioner. Blair once plaintively said the party would have grown up
only when it learned to love Mandelson. Well, it hasn't, but I am shocked to
find I have reached a level of maturity where I almost do. Should I join some
sort of self-help group?

Hartlepool was always too small a pond for such a considerable fish.

I have missed his Shirley Basseystyle speeches, where all aquiver he talked
about his core of inner steel. I have missed his quite mad and muddled
explanations of how he was forced out of office through no fault of his own.

I have missed his constant strategising. It's not, you understand, that I agree
with much of what he says, but he is a fascinating creature and politics is
bereft of those.

Is he a suitable Minister?

Probably not. Is he flawed?

Undoubtedly. Is he clever and scheming?

Of course. Does he have a life outside politics? Don't be daft. He has tried,
though. After his second sacking he said of his chosen profession: 'There must
be a different and better way to spend your life.' But we don't believe he
believes that for a moment.

They may not come any more New Labour than Mandelson, he may be entirely
responsible, alongside Campbell, for all that is wrong the spin and the lies but
this volatile, emotional man remains key to the very existence of this
government. He is not Tony's crony but his soulmate. His rehabilitation is a
sign of how far Blair is prepared to bypass all normal political processes and
do what the hell he damn well chooses. Mandelson's return to Cabinet would, we
are told, have sparked a revolt. This is amazing, as a reckless and illthought
out war didn't.

For Mandelson is a giant among the Blairite clones in high office.

And who turned them into clones charisma- free, on- message cyborgs? He did.

TELL me honestly, are you transfixed by the complex personalities of Tessa
Jowell or Geoff Hoon or any of the others whose faces you barely remember?

No. But Mandelson offers us intrigue, passion and brilliance, all underpinned by
his tendency to go over the top and make silly but disastrous mistakes.

The sensible approach to politics focuses on issues and not on personalities.
But we are not all that sensible and nor is Tony Blair, or he wouldn't have
brought back his compadre. He has forgiven him his flaws, though many will not.
But surely he will make the Eurocracy a whole lot more interesting than it used
to be.

As Eminem said of himself: 'We need a little controversy 'cos it feels so empty
without me.' It has

been empty without Mandy. Such a man should be centre stage to play the
pantomime villain we can all hiss at. Maybe we can't all learn to love him, but
we can sure get a kick out of hating him.

ALL this debate about when the rot set into society is fairly pointless.

Tony Blair has decided antisocial behaviour is a result of Sixties liberalism.

If you are on the Right you always blame the Sixties, but if you are on the Left
you blame the greed and individualism of the Thatcherite Eighties for social
breakdown.

But if, like me, you came of age in the Seventies, then you are entirely
blameless which is rather strange.

The only thing the Seventies ever gets blamed for is its total lack of sartorial
style.

The fact that in that pre-Aids era we were all at it like rabbits seems to have
passed all the moralists and politicians by. What a relief.

Stickto kitchen sink drama, Kate

KATE HUDSON, who surprisingly does not star in the remake of The Stepford Wives,
has announced that a woman's place is in the home.

Kate, right, should join UKIP, which thinks a woman's place is behind the
fridge, cleaning it (and you thought they were a single-issue party).

I trust Ms Hudson will not be appearing in any more movies that could possibly
take her away from her wifely duties. It's somewhat rich to be given marriage
guidance by these Hollywood types.

What next Sharon Stone on demure dressing? Julia Roberts on fidelity?

Michael Jackson on child-rearing?

Hard to swallow, Charles

A WEEK rarely goes by without Prince Charles spouting off on subjects about
which he knows sod all.

This week, it was schoolchildren needing proper cookery lessons instead of the
'politically correct pretence' of food technology classes. What can he cook, I
wonder? After all, this is a man who has to have his toothpaste squeezed. How
often is he in the kitchen knocking up a souffle?

I had proper cookery lessons of the kind he favours and I learnt how to make
trifle, Victoria sponge and scones. Not exactly a recipe for a varied diet or
even a meal.

My kids have undergone the politically correct classes and they can't cook much
either. But I learnt pretty fast when I left home and I trust they will too.

But then Charles has never really left home, has he?

I WOULD like to put in a good word for that much maligned creature, the rat.

Why are all men who betray their spouses or partners called love rats?

James Hewitt, Rod Liddle and Sven-Goran Eriksson have all been called love rats.
What have rats ever done to deserve such treatment?

If we must compare them to rodents we should at least pick the right ones.

Sven, I feel, is much more of a gerbil, hiding away, cheeks bulging with food.

Hewitt is like one of those guinea pigs the kids once adored but now sits
squeaking and neglected in its cage.

And Liddle is more of a crazed, insomniac hamster, running all night on its
wheel in a desperate effort to kid itself that it is living in the wild.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              45 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Howard needs to put a rocket up the Tories

BYLINE: NORMAN TEBBIT

SECTION: FB; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 1183 words


Politics is a cruel business. Nearly a year ago Michael Howard's coronation as
leader of the Tory Party ended the divisions and backstabbings that had brought
down Iain Duncan Smith.

Little more than a month ago, the Tories became the biggest party in local
government, thrashing Labour and with the Liberal Democrats not even in the same
league. In the Euro elections, despite the success of the UK Independence Party,
it was Labour and the Lib-Dems not the Tories who were left scrabbling for the
wooden spoon.

But now, as Parliament rises for the summer, the incredible Tony Blair (yes, I
do mean incredible you cannot believe a word he says) is up and Mr Howard is
down. Tory MPs are leaving Westminster with their tails between their legs, and
their Labour colleagues, much as they hate Blair, are more optimistic than they
have been for months. So what has gone wrong and what needs to be done?

But before that, what has gone right?

Michael Howard is in command of his party, and his men, Lord Saatchi and Liam
Fox, have cleaned out the nest of vipers that had taken over Tory Central
Office.

Across the country there are new Tory councillors who won their seats under his
leadership and there are more Tory councils than for many years.

That mythical man in the pub (or the Mondeo man) may not yet be convinced that
Howard should be Prime Minister, but he thinks he could do the job.

Duncan Smith never earned that endorsement and neither, of course, did Neil
Kinnock, whom even the most loyal Labour voter could never envisage in No10.

Howard is a thoroughly competent manager who controlled that cesspit of a
department, the Home Office, like few of his predecessors and none since ever
managed to do.

He has great charm, an incisive mind, manages interviews well and, on his day,
is an outstanding parliamentarian. Even his wife is a political asset.

Who would not rather spend an evening with Sandra Howard than Cherie Booth/
Blair?

The man is a tanker loaded with high-octane political fuel but seems reluctant
to spark the fire to blast his way into No10. I long for him to lead the charge,
flying the brightest of blue flags to inspire his troops.

Of course, after the party's miserable past 14 years he would not be human if he
did not sometimes brood about the possibility of failure rather than the
prospect of success.

Maybe that accounts for the Tories' reluctance to nail their colours to the
mast. They seem to be afraid to risk offending anyone or any interest. It is
true that governments can stay in office by not offending too many people, but
oppositions have to risk offending a minority to persuade the majority to sack
the devil they know to put the devil they don't into office.

Howard's Tories seem to equivocate on the gut political issues of tax,
immigration and Europe, losing supporters to the evangelicals in UKIP.

There are difficult issues, with much to be said on the one hand and on the
other, and sometimes it is not all black and white but many shades of grey.

But the voter has just one vote. It is either yes or no and if the Opposition
offers only shades of grey he will stay at home, or vote for no change or for a
fringe party such as UKIP or the British National Party, which sees every issue
as black and white.

The problem is that the country feels prosperous. Inflation and interest rates
are low. Homeowners enjoy an illusion of wealth as house prices soar.

There are plenty of non-jobs in Government, council and quangos.

The great bubble of public and private spending is less obvious and most voters
feel comfortable about the economy, so the Tories have to find some convincing
reasons to throw the Government out.

While education and the NHS are important issues, it is not easy to persuade
people that the Tories alone have the formula and the will to improve them, as
Labour Ministers follow every Tory initiative with a Labour lookalike. Even on
crime and immigration, Home Secretary David Blunkett tries to sound like a Tory
although the Home Office ensures even the best of his initiatives is bogged down
in the legislative slush at which it excels.

The gross deception has been so successful that even The Daily Telegraph
publishes an imbecilic claim that Blair's heart 'lies deep within the
Conservative Party'. The paper declares him to be 'Rightwing in his instincts'
and says he 'has clearly moved further to the right since entering Downing
Street'.

Dear God, as if the BBC is not a problem enough, poor Howard has now to deal
with a quisling in the Tory Press, too.

There is no option but to take risks.

Howard needs to fire up a far more ruthless and aggressive attack on Blair and
his Government. The material lies knee-deep in the contrast not only between
Blair's words and his deeds but his words and his words as he twists and turns
like a whirling dervish.

There are too many Tory frontbenchers incapable of taking apart even Labour's
weakest Ministers.

They must go. Sleepy labradors have no place in the pack. It is rottweilers and
terriers we need.

The focus of policy must change.

We have left the voters confused over health and education. The excellent Shadow
Chancellor, Oliver Letwin, needs to overcome his fear of declaring himself a
tax-cutter.

Gordon Brown cannot match that.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis needs to be clear that we will not accept
hijackers as asylum seekers and if the law says we must, we will change it.

And surely the whole country should be rolling with laughter at the idea of
ticketing burglars with on-the-spot fines for housebreaking.

On Europe, Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram needs to make it plain that
we will try our best to get what Britain wants in Europe, but if we cannot get
it inside, then we will get it outside.

Howard has to choose between the last few Euro-fanatics in the party and the
millions of votes lost to UKIP.

The votes of 250,000 servicemen and their families will not go to Blair, but
will Shadow Defence Secretary Nicholas Soames convince them that the Tories will
treat them better than Labour? At the moment, voters think there would be too
little difference between a Blair and a Howard government to make the risk of a
change worthwhile.

Until the eminently mockable Blair is made the object of derision he should be,
and there is the prospect of a real change of government not just a change of
faces the voters will stay at home or show their displeasure by voting for those
growing protest parties: UKIP, Lib-Dem, BNP, Respect and the Green Party.

I believe the mood of Britain's voters is that much as they despise Blair, he
has not hurt them, but they do not know that the Tories would do much different
or better. It smells to me like 1950, 1964 and 1974 when that mood brought a
hung Parliament and two Elections within the year.

With a real heave, Howard could win the next Election. Without it, we might see
another five years of Labour. Victory is within his reach, but not yet his
grasp.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              46 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Quotes of the Week

SECTION: FB; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 283 words


'If Argentina did their business again in the Falklands, we'd lose.'

Admiral Sir 'Sandy' Woodward, task force commander during the Falklands War, on
last week's defence cuts

'No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of childbearing age.' UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom,
when chosen to serve on the European Parliament's Women's Rights Committee 'A
bunch of overcharging rapists.' Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary's description of
BAA, which runs Stansted airport, in a row over aircraft fuel costs 'Children
cannot be divided like the furniture or the CD collection.'

Lord Falconer, rejecting automatic equal access rights to parents in custody
battles

'If I could scratch it off with my fingernails I would, but now I realise I'm
stuck with it.' A rueful Julie Thomas, who had a tattoo of Winnie the Pooh
despite, at 15, being underage 'I am absolutely confident that the mechanisms
for judging my fallibility are infallible.' Tony Blair, responding to a loaded
Commons question on recognising one's own limitations from Labour MP Tony
McWalter 'You shouldn't fill in complaint forms because they get lost in the
post.' Response when Bill Mellor, from Lancashire, tried to make a written
complaint to the Royal Mail 'British Airways has some of the best cabin crew in
the business.

Unfortunately they're not on this flight with you today.' Co-pilot on a British
Airways Boeing 767 en route from Heathrow to Stockholm, Sweden 'Just because you
are on a diet doesn't mean you can't admire the menu.'

Sacha Distel, who died last week at 71, on having an eye for a pretty girl
despite being married for 40 years

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              47 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 25, 2004

Women 'must push for career success'

BYLINE: KATIE TAYLOR

SECTION: C1; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 333 words


New Euro MP Godfrey Bloom, the UK Independence Party's spokesman on women's
rights, caused a storm last week when he declared that 'no small businessman
with a brain would ever employ a lady of childbearing age'.

Such old-fashioned attitudes earned Bloom the name Mr Neanderthal in the
newspapers, but some women believe that their own sex could do more to help
themselves become successful.

'There is discrimination, but many women fail to push themselves forward,' says
Katharine Rake of the Fawcett Society, an organisation that campaigns for gender
equality.

While the number of female directors in the top 250 companies is rising, some
suggest that women share the blame for such slow progress.

Smaller firms can offer more scope for promotion, but require as much effort.

Andrea Brammer, 43, joined mortgage intermediary Cartel in 1997 as an adviser
and was made a director of the Manchester-based company within two years.

Andrea is now head of recruitment and one of two female executive directors on
the board. 'Our chief executive, Carl Wright, believes in promoting people on
performance, ability and commitment.

You simply have to be better than everyone else,' she says.

A seven-day working week is not uncommon. Andrea, of Northwich, Cheshire, says:
'My children are grown up, so I can put everything into my career. But if you
want to get to the top, long hours are the price you must pay.' Women still
represent only 8.6 per cent of directors in the UK's biggest companies, though
female non-executive directorships increased slightly last year from 69 to 84.

The business case for women in the boardroom is strong. A new report by US
research firm Catalyst, found that companies with the highest representation of
women on their top management teams had a better financial performance than
those with fewer females.

Rake says: 'Companies need to ensure that women are actively supported, promoted
and better prepared for boardroom roles.'

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              48 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 25, 2004

More help for pregnant staff

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words


BOSSES should be given more help on how to handle pregnant staff, according to
the head of Britain's anti-sexism watchdog who believes that MEP Godfrey Bloom's
controversial warnings against hiring women 'struck a chord' with employers.

Julie Mellor, chair of the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC), said Bloom's
suggestion that women belonged in the home 'cleaning behind the fridge' had
rightly brought outrage. The Ukip MEP went on to insist that no employer with a
brain would want to hire a 'lady of childbearing age' in case she had a baby.

However, Mellor said Bloom may have 'tapped into' more wide spread worries among
employers about whether staff who had children would hold down a job.

'Parents don't want either Godfrey Bloom or the government telling them what to
do. This demonstrates that a lot of discrimination is still going on,' she said.

'But what we have found is that employers are worried that an employee coming
back to work after having a baby is not going to be reliable, because of the
lack of affordable childcare. We have to remember that 40 per cent of women end
up giving up their jobs because they cannot balance their caring
responsibilities.'

Her comments, which came as the Prime Minister yesterday launched a taskforce to
investigate the needs of working women, will trigger fierce debate over the
rights and wrongs of gender warfare in the office. However, it follows a
wide-ranging EOC investigation into the treatment of pregnant women, due to be
published in September.

Mellor said small businesses in Britain now employ more women than men. But it
was clear such firms needed more help in handling the costs and practicalities
of maternity leave.

The government should consider offering help with the cost of finding temps to
cover for a woman on maternity leave, she said. A national network of childcare
'as reliable as the NHS' would also enable women to return to work with
confidence - and convince bosses that they would not be let down.

Mellor said it would be impossi ble to tackle low pay - the main aim of Blair's
new commission - without tackling other issues affecting working women, such as
the long hours' culture driving many into poorly paid part-time work.

Women part-timers are 'the new underclass', says the EOC, earning a shocking 60
per cent pro rata of what men get for the same job. Mellor argues, however, that
the recent flood of court cases in Britain suggest younger career women are not
prepared to be stuck on the 'mummy track' of low pay and no prospects.

Mellor is now investigating the impact of the pay gap on men. When women are
cheated out of a higher salary, their partners have to work more hours to make
up the family income, missing out on time with their children, she says.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 25, 2004

More help for pregnant staff

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 345 words


BOSSES should be given more help on how to handle pregnant staff, according to
the head of Britain's anti-sexism watchdog who believes that an MEP's warnings
against hiring women 'struck a chord' with employers.

Julie Mellor, chair of the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC), said Godfrey
Bloom's suggestion that women belonged in the home 'cleaning behind the fridge'
had rightly brought outrage. The Ukip MEP said no employer with a brain would
want to hire a 'lady of childbearing age' in case she had a baby.

However, Mellor said Bloom may have 'tapped into' more widespread worries among
employers.

'Parents don't want either Godfrey Bloom or the government telling them what to
do. This demonstrates that a lot of discrimination is still going on,' she said.

'But what we have found is that employers are worried that an employee coming
back to work after having a baby is not going to be reliable, because of the
lack of affordable childcare. We have to remember that 40 per cent of women end
up giving up their jobs because they cannot balance their caring
responsibilities.'

Her comments, which came as the Prime Minister yesterday launched a taskforce to
investigate the needs of working women, will trigger fierce debate over the
rights and wrongs of gender warfare in the office. However, it follows an EOC
investigation into the treatment of pregnant women, due to be published in
September.

Mellor said small businesses in Britain now employ more women than men. But it
was clear such firms needed more help in handling the costs and practicalities
of maternity leave.

The government should consider offering help with the cost of finding temps to
cover for a woman on maternity leave, she said. A national network of childcare
would also enable women to return to work with confidence. Mellor said it would
be impossible to tackle low pay - the main aim of Blair's new commission -
without tackling other issues affecting working women, such as the long hours'
culture driving many into poorly paid part-time work.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 25, 2004

Commnet: Letters to the Editor: They said what?

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 131 words


'No small businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of child- bearing
age. '

Godfrey Bloom, Ukip's newly elected MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber

'I am absolutely confident that the mechanisms for judging my fallibility are
infallible.'

Tony Blair

' I'm commitment-phobic. You'd think I could cure myself, but I can't.'

Hypnotist Paul McKenna

'I don't go to Narcotics Anonymous now. I'd come out wanting a line more badly
than ever.'

Model Sophie Anderton

'If they don't have guts, I call them girlie men.'

California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger

'I asked how she survived all her divorces. She said, "The first one's the
hardest, then you know the routine."'

Lionel Richie on advice from Elizabeth Taylor when his marriage up


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 25, 2004

FORMER TV HOST SAYS HARTLEPOOL HAS BEEN LET DOWN BY ITS 'SLIMY AND DEVIOUS' MP;
KILROY GUNNING FOR MANDELSON

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk was last night poised to run for Peter Mandelson's seat in
Parliament after a bitter personal clash with Britain's new European
commissioner.

The former Labour MP and TV host is seeking assurances from colleagues in the UK
Independence Party before throwing his hat into the ring for the Hartlepool
seat.

Senior UKIP sources revealed that the Sunday Express columnist is asking for
complete control of the campaign and a guarantee that he will have enough staff
and financial resources to win.

Kilroy is also thought to want to gag those on the fringe of the party, like MEP
Godfrey Bloom, who embarrassed UKIP last week by saying women should cook their
husband's dinner and clean behind the fridge.

He would have to overturn a Labour majority of 15,000, but his recent victory in
the European elections has given the party hope that it can pull off an upset.
Mr Kilroy-Silk yesterday refused to be drawn on whether he would stand, but he
attacked Tony Blair's handling of the European issue in a speech riddled with
electionfriendly soundbites.

His personal criticism of Mr Mandelson provoked the new Commissioner into urging
BBC lawyers to investigate whether legal action could be taken against him.

Mr Kilroy-Silk told the BBC: "The Government's got to listen to us. We want some
democracy.

They're not taking account of our views. The Prime Minister is not listening to
anyone and arrogantly appointing one of his cronies to this job."

In a double-barrelled onslaught, he attacked Mr Mandelson as "the unacceptable
face of European federalism. He's slimy, he's devious.

There's nobody in the country who likes him." Kilroy told the Sunday Express:
"Mr Mandelson has always spoken for Europe in Britain not Britain in Europe.
That always comes first, not the interests of the British people. He's gone
native before he's even got there.

"I'm about telling the truth, he is into spin. He wants people to do what he
says, I want the British people to do what ever they like.

"He's pursuing his own selfish interest, not the people of Hartlepool. He was
foisted on them and at the first opportunity to join the gravy train, he's off.

Do we want to be governed by people like Peter Mandelson from Brussels? I don't
think so."

A furious Mr Mandelson hit back, hinting that he might sue for defamation. He
told Radio 4: "I know the BBC lawyers will be reaching for their manuals.

"I hope they did hear Mr Kilroy-Silk because I think they will be able to
consider whether he is an appropriate person to represent a great town like
Hartlepool. He is a one issue anti-European fanatic, whose ego will clearly
never be satisfied by being a mere member of the European Parliament and wants
not just one salary and one seat in one parliament but two seats and two
salaries."

Mr Mandelson admitted he would have his work cut out to persuade the British
people to back Europe.

"As a member of a rather disliked Brussels Commission with a European Union
which is not universally popular I will be doing my bit to turn that round, " he
said, adding that the negative attitude "is reflected in parts of my
constituency".

Mr Kilroy-Silk might find himself going head to head with former police chief
Ray Mallon, who introduced zero tolerance policing to the UK. Mr Mallon is being
wooed by Labour.

Other candidates under consideration include Patrick Diamond, Mr Mandelson's
former personal assistant, now a Downing Street policy adviser.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              52 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 25, 2004

EURO MP WHO UPSET FEMINISTS CLEANS HIS OWN FRIDGE - AND EATS A LITTLE HUMBLE
PIE; GODFREY 'S JUST A 'YES DEAR ' MAN

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Jacinta Towndrow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 378 words


THESE are the pictures Britain's housewives have been waiting all week to see.

Repentant Euro MP Godfrey Bloom donned a pair of Marigolds and a floral pinny
and got down on his hands and knees to show he is ready to practise what he
preaches after insisting: "Women don't clean behind the fridge enough."

The 54-year-old UK Independence Party member provoked a further furious backlash
from women's rights groups on his first day in the European Parliament by
saying: "Yorkshire women always have dinner on the table when you get home."

And he added: "No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right
place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age."

But last night Mr Bloom insisted his comments had all been an attempt to inject
some humour into the stuffy Strasbourg political machine. He said: "Everyone is
so bogged down with political correctness these days that they have forgotten
how to laugh at themselves. I made the comments because they are the sort of
things that my wife Katie and I have a bit of a banter about.

"She will rag me about not cutting the hedge or mowing the lawn and I usually
retaliate with:

'No but have you cleaned behind the fridge recently?'" He sheepishly admitted
that far from having a meal waiting for him when he gets home, he has to cook
dinner for himself and his 39-yearold wife, a horse physiotherapist.

"We've been happily married for 18 years, so we must be doing something right.
Feminists can put that in their pipe and smoke it, " he added.

Mr Bloom does have supporters, however. The Cambridge University Ladies Rugby
Team, which he sponsors, posted a message on its website declaring: "Godders has
been supporting us for years and he's a bloody good bloke."

Mr Bloom, a former Army major, did stick to his guns on maternity rights. "It is
a sad fact that small businesses will think twice about hiring a woman of
child-bearing age.

Those applications end up in the bin in favour of a woman who has already had a
family, " he said.

A commission to ensure women get a fair deal in the workplace is to be set up by
the Government, Tony Blair said yesterday. It was unacceptable that parttime
women workers earned 40 per cent less on average than men, he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              53 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 25, 2004, Sunday

Bourgeois and proud of it It is acceptable to say terrible things about the
middle classes

BYLINE: By Jemima Lewis

SECTION: Features; Sunday Comment:Pg. 23

LENGTH: 875 words

A few months ago, I wrote a piece here about a website called Chavscum, which
pokes fun at a certain type of white, urban yobbo - the slack-jawed, whey-faced,
joyriding, corner-loitering, granny-terrorising variety. And now I'm feeling a
bit sheepish. For according to Michael Collins, author of The Likes of Us: A
Biography of the White Working Classes, snooty middle-class folk who mock chavs
are no better than racists.

Mr Collins's book is a lament for the passing of a once-proud tribe. The white
working class, he says, has been by turns patronised, marginalised and demonised
by the likes of me. Middle-class journalists dip their toes into proletarian
areas such as south-east London (his own childhood turf) and then report back in
horror at the ignorance, squalor and moral turpitude of the masses. Right now,
says Mr Collins, prole-bashing is going through an especially nasty phase, with
phrases like "chav" and "white trash" tripping off the tongue of otherwise
immaculately liberal media types.

Mr Collins puts forward a stout defence of his tribe. He points out that
although the working classes are often portrayed as racist thugs, they have the
highest rate of miscegenation in this country. They have been subjected to
endless meddling by politicians, multi-culturalists and utopian town planners,
to the point where their indigenous culture has almost ceased to exist. And when
they do put out a few markers of identity - the flashy outfits, the flag-waving
patriotism - they are denounced as knuckle-headed vulgarians.

Mr Collins has convinced me. Name-calling is never nice, and I am sorry I did
it. It would be a mistake, however, to imagine that the traffic is all one way.
Indeed, if there is one class in Britain more openly traduced than his, it is
mine. In The Times last week, for instance, Julie Burchill launched one of the
most vitriolic attacks on any social group that I have read in years. Her worst
fear, she wrote, was that she might be mistaken for middle-class because of her
huge income. Not only are the middle classes "rubbish" and "crap" - they have a
"coldness at the heart of them". They always hate their parents - and small
wonder, since "the only way the ruling classes have of expressing love to their
offspring is by raping them".

There are so many flaws in this ugly diatribe that one hardly knows where to
begin. For one thing, there is no homogenous middle class in Britain. Instead,
there is a vast social group - by far the biggest in the country - which
contains dozens of very different sub-groups. A Tory taxi-driver living in
modest comfort in Essex might be called middle-class; so might a Left-wing
novelist with a giant house in Hampstead. The most liberal and progressive
thinkers are usually middle-class; so are the most traditional and
narrow-minded. As for the parenting skills of the bourgeoisie: no doubt these
are as variable as in any other social group. My parents loved me devotedly, and
without ever resorting to child molestation.

The reason it is acceptable to say such terrible things about the middle classes
is that we seem to have it quite easy. We are, by definition, not crushingly
poor. Most of us get a good education, thanks to the efforts of our cold-hearted
rapist parents. We slide easily into professional life in the running of the
country. We don't have much to complain about. Even so, I cannot see that we
deserve such opprobrium. If one had to make a sweeping generalisation about the
middle classes, it would be that we are a respectable, non-violent, politically
disparate, occasionally blinkered race of do-gooders. I don't think there is too
much shame in that.

Last week, I tried to explain why some men - the alpha types - can get away with
chauvinist banter. This week, I refer you to one who cannot. Godfrey Bloom, an
MEP for the UK Independence Party, has been chosen to represent his party on the
subject of women's rights. "I want to deal with women's issues," he explained in
his maiden speech, "because I just don't think they clean behind the fridge
enough." Warming to his theme, he declared: "No self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age." When a female MEP suggested that Mr Bloom's investment firm
should be investigated for sexual discrimination, however, he lost his nerve. "I
was joking," he now insists. "I am amazed that anyone took it seriously."

It is amazing, in a way. Mr Bloom has gone to great lengths to signal that he is
something of a wag. He wears a pin-striped suit every day, topped by a bowler
hat whenever he goes into town. The message on his office answering machine
barks: "Halt! Who goes there?" His comical ways are well known in his native
Yorkshire. "It goes over your head round here," sighed the wife of one of his
UKIP colleagues last week. "We've heard it many times before."

And that, I'm afraid, is the problem. There is nothing more tiresome than a
habitual joker whose gags are barely distinguishable from his lurking
reactionary beliefs. Mr Bloom prides himself on being a blunt-speaking
Yorkshireman. He might be better off adopting that county's other famous
characteristic: seeing all, hearing all, saying nowt.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              54 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 25, 2004, Sunday

CAR0LE MALONE: BLOOMIN' FABULOUS REVENGE

BYLINE: CAR0LE MALONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 198 words


MY first reaction on reading that UKIP spokesman Godfrey Bloom had said women
didn't clean behind the fridge and that no "small businessman with a brain would
ever employ a woman of child-bearing age" was that if there is a God, he'd send
some shaven-headed, rabid feminist to give him a kick in the goolies.

However the more I hear about Godfrey Bloom's wife Katryna, I'm happy to say
that I think the job has already been done - metaphorically speaking, of course.

Since Bloom's silly outburst his wife has taken the phone off the hook and
refused to speak to him. On Bloom's own admission she has "quite a temper" and
gives him holy hell if he doesn't mow the lawn and wash the car when she tells
him to. She's a respected equine physiotherapist and would, I suspect, rather
eat horse manure than spend her days cooking and cleaning for her husband. And
so terrified of her is he that Bloom has said: "Not only shall I be cleaning
behind the fridge in future, I will probably be wearing it when I get home."

So you see, girls, Godfrey Bloom is already being punished - a situation which
might intensify the minute he plucks up the courage to go back and face his
wife.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              55 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 24, 2004

Mandy will cost us votes, say mps

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 849 words


TONY BLAIR'S high- risk appointment of Peter Mandelson as Britain's new Brussels
commissioner triggered a furious backlash from Labour MPs yesterday.

They claimed the appointment of a man with a 'hypnotic' hold over the Prime
Minister was a 'slap in the face' to Labour and would be 'worth two million
votes' to the Eurosceptic cause.

The twice- disgraced ex-Cabinet Minister conceded he was ' unpalatable' to some
members of his own party.

But he appealed to be given a chance in his Pounds 145,000a-year post.

Referring to himself in the third person, he told Sky News: 'Love him or loathe
him, he is a strong guy. We need someone to bat for Britain in Brussels. Give
him a chance.' Mr Mandelson, who takes up his job on November 1, rejected the
suggestion that his earlier resignations should have ruled him out of a
prominent public post.

'Of course, in politics and in life, nobody is blameless,' he said.

'People make mistakes, and I paid a very high price for those mistakes, in one
case rightly and in the second case, in my view, unjustly and unfairly.'

But his appeal for sympathy fell on deaf ears in his own party.

Eurosceptic Labour MP Ian Davidson described the appointment as 'appalling' and
a 'real slap in the face for the Labour Party'.

He told the BBC: 'This will be seen as an example of arrogance by New Labour,
bringing in somebody twice resigned, seen as a crony just of the Prime Minister,
and deeply unpopular in the Labour Party.

'I think it is going to be seen as bad for the Prime Minister because it is
going to be seen as a sign of weakness, as if he was almost hypnotised by Peter
Mandelson. As someone who is going to be campaigning against the European
Constitution, the prospect of campaigning against Peter Mandelson running a
European superstate is worth a couple of million votes at least.'

Former sports minister Kate Hoey, another Eurosceptic, said: 'Although this is
bad news for Britain, it's good news for the No campaign against the
constitution. Peter represents the things people don't like about Europe he
reminds people why they plan to vote No.' Labour Left-winger Jeremy Corbyn was
another who did not welcome Mr Mandelson's 'Lazarus-like' return.

'Do we really want operators and manipulators as commissioners in Europe?'

he said. 'Do we really need dark arts and media manipulation and spin running
Europe?' Former defence minister Peter Kilfoyle said: 'In my view it is a
misjudgment by the Prime Minister.' The flak was equally heavy from Mr
Mandelson's political opponents. Jonathan Evans, leader of Conservative MEPs in
the European Parliament, said: 'Instead of appointing someone who would put
Britain first, Mr Blair has appointed Peter Mandelson, a man who is only
interested in putting Peter Mandelson first.' Mr Blair said that Mr Mandelson
had 'the skills, ability and contacts in Europe to make a great success' of the
EU post.

And Mr Mandelson himself snapped back at the critics.

Appearing on Channel 4 News, he protested: 'You can go to all the people you
interviewed. You knew what their views are. You knew they were going to be
hostile.

'They are the same people who turn out on issue after issue, usually attacking
New Labour, usually attacking the Prime Minister.

'What is more important is getting the best British representative-on the
European Commission and I hope that is what I'm going to be.' Mr Blair sent his
most devoted political confidant to Brussels after trying unsuccessfully to
bring him back into the Cabinet.

That idea was scotched at the start of this week by Cabinet heavyweights led by
John Prescott and Jack Straw.

After the rebuff, Mr Mandelson spent three days dithering he said he 'agonised'
before accepting the Brussels job.

The Prime Minister abandoned a Cabinet reshuffle at the 11th hour as the
'agonising' dragged on.

Mr Mandelson admitted last night that he had been keen to return to Cabinet but
knew it was not an option.

He told BBC2's Newsnight: 'There is always a little bit of me that wants to come
back to the Cabinet, because I want to be vindicated in that sense, given the
rather unfair circumstances of my last departure.

'But I have always recognised the difficulties and I think now, for example,
given the very predictable media frenzy that would have accompanied it, it would
not be a good idea.' The appointment presents Mr Blair with a difficult
by-election in Mr Mandelson's Hartlepool seat where Labour has a 14,751
majority.

The Liberal Democrats, who took Leicester South from Labour in a by-election
earlier this month, immediately announced they were ready to begin campaigning.

And Robert Kilroy-Silk, the UK Independence Party MEP and former daytime TV
host, said he was 'seriously considering' contesting Hartlepool.

d.hughes@dailymail.co.uk

THE Daily Mail broke the news of Mandelson's move to Brussels ten months ago. In
a story headlined 'Our Mandy In Brussels' on September 25, we revealed 'Peter
Mandelson is to make a spectacular political comeback in Brussels'.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              56 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 24, 2004

PRINCE OF DARKNESS RISES FROM THE DEAD; MIRACLE MANDY

BYLINE: by ED ROBERTSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words


PETER Mandelson has landed a top EU job - in one of the most amazing comebacks
since Lazarus rose from the dead.

It is a miracle return to frontline politics for the former minister - who has
TWICE been forced out of the Cabinet in disgrace.

Close pal Tony Blair rescued him from the wllderness to offer him the post of
Britain's European Commissioner.

And the man dubbed the Prince of Darkness by opponents insisted he had "agonised
long and hard" before accepting the plum job.

Apart from his GBP 163,000-ayear salary Mandy, 50, will get his own limousine
with round-the-clock chauffeurs, GBP 7,000-a-year entertaining budget and a
generous pension.

The Hartlepool MP said yesterday: "Contrary to what you may have read in the
national media, this isn't a job that I have been angling for."

His comeback amazed fellow politicians who assumed they'd heard the last of him.

He seemed finished after being forced out of the Cabinet for a second time in
2001 following a "cash for passports" scandal involving two Indian billionaires.

Yesterday the Prime Minister said: "The simple truth is he is the best person
for the job. He has got the right skills, the talent, ability and contacts in
Europe."

But the appointment has already provoked a furious backlash in Westminster where
MPs see the appointment as another example of Tony's cronies.

Labour backbencher Ian Davidson said: "It will be seen as arrogance by New
Labour."

Tory chairman Liam Fox added: "This is cronyism of the worst kind".

Mandelson will now have to stand down as an MP, and UK Independence Party MEP
Robert KilroySilk said he is "seriously considering" standing in the resulting
by-election - likely to be held on November 4.

Yesterday 86% of readers said Tony Blair should NOT give Mandy a top EU job.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              57 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

Uproar in Labour ranks over Mandelson comeback

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 738 words

PETER MANDELSON promised last night not to let Tony Blair down for a third time
after staging a remarkable comeback by being nominated as Britain's European
commissioner.

But Eurosceptic Labour MPs said that sending such a controversial figure to
Brussels would backfire on Mr Blair because it would be worth a "couple of
million No votes" in a referendum on the European constitution.

An autumn by-election in his Hartlepool constituency could turn into a
pre-referendum skirmish, as Robert Kilroy-Silk, the new UK Independence Party
Euro-MP, said he was seriously considering contesting the seat.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, regarded as the figurehead of UKIP, said he was coming under
"considerable pressure" from his party to stand.

After days of rumour and speculation in Whitehall, the Prime Minister finally
confirmed that he had nominated Mr Mandelson for the pounds 144,000-a-year post.
He said his close friend and ally was "the best person for the job".

"Peter Mandelson has the skills, ability and contacts in Europe to make a great
success of it."

Although the move had been widely expected, Mr Mandelson's return to a
front-line position is a gamble. Few politicians are given a second chance, let
alone a third, but Mr Blair, having weathered a tough year, believes he is in a
strong enough position to withstand criticism of the decision.

Mr Mandelson has twice been forced to resign from the Cabinet: over an
undeclared home loan in 1998 and the Hinduja passports affair three years later.
An inquiry later cleared him of wrongdoing.

Within hours of No 10's announcement, bookmakers were taking bets on whether he
would see out his full five-year term in Brussels.

Mr Mandelson told Sky News he had paid a high price for his mistakes but Mr
Blair had faith in him. "I do not intend to let him or the British people down,"
he said.

He had "agonised long and hard" over whether to take the post because of loyalty
to his constituents in Hartlepool, who had stood by him in difficult times. He
denied "angling" for the job or that he had really wanted another job in the
Cabinet. Writing in the Hartlepool Mail, he said Mr Blair had "persuaded" him to
go to Brussels. It was a huge challenge, bigger than anything he had taken on
before, "even than helping to turn round the Labour Party from near political
extinction in the 1980s".

Mr Blair faced accusations of "cronyism" in the face of considerable party
opposition. Ian Davidson, Labour MP for Glasgow Pollok and leader of the Labour
Against a Superstate campaign, said the appointment was a "slap in the face" for
the party.

It would be seen as an example of arrogance, "bringing in somebody twice
resigned" and a crony of the Prime Minister.

Mr Davidson said the prospect of Mr Mandelson running a European superstate was
worth "a couple of million votes at least" to those campaigning against the
European constitution.

Kate Hoey, Labour MP for Vauxhall, said: "Peter represents the things people do
not like about Europe; he reminds people why they plan to vote No. This is a
setback for the Yes camp."

Liam Fox, the Conservative Party co-chairman, said: "Once again the Prime
Minister has put his friends in the Labour Party ahead of the country."

Mr Mandelson acknowledged that he was "unpalatable" to some party members but
said reports of his unpopularity were overblown.

He hoped the public would respond to his appointment by saying: "Love him or
loathe him, he is a strong guy. We need someone to bat for Britain in Brussels.
Give him a chance."

Mr Blair telephoned Jose Manuel Barroso, the new president of the European
Commission, in the morning to put forward Mr Mandelson's name. No 10 said he
received "a positive response".

Mr Mandelson is expected to take up his job on Nov 1. Mr Barroso will decide
what portfolio he will be given.

Mr Mandelson said he would be happy to be in charge of paperclips if necessary.
In fact, he wants one of the economic portfolios at the heart of the
commission's work.

He has delayed standing down as an MP until Parliament resumes after the summer
break. Otherwise he would have had several months without pay.

The by-election in Hartlepool, where he had a 14,571 majority at the last
general election, will be a considerable challenge for Labour. Last week the
party lost the safe seat of Leicester South to the Liberal Democrats and scraped
home by only 460 votes in Birmingham Hodge Hill.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              58 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

Constituents happy as non-quitter decides to call it a day

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 544 words

VOTERS in Hartlepool seemed to be quite happy yesterday at Peter Mandelson's
decision to quit as the town's MP.

Although he was returned with a majority of 14,571 at the last election, there
was no shortage of people willing to put the boot in after it was confirmed he
would be leaving to become a European commissioner.

In 2001, Mr Mandelson famously announced that he was "a fighter not a quitter"
after his re-election. Yesterday it turned out he was a quitter after all. The
Tories and the Liberal Democrats believe the circumstances of Mr Mandelson's
departure, combined with his apparent unpopularity, will increase the chances of
Labour losing the seat.

Hartlepool has not had a Tory MP for 40 years and, although the Liberal
Democrats came third in 2001, they believe that they can perform their customary
by-election winning magic in the poll, which will take place later this year.

To win, the Lib-Dems need a swing of 22 per cent. In last week's by-elections
they got swings of 21.5 per cent in Leicester South (which they won) and 27 per
cent in Birmingham Hodge Hill (which they lost).

But Hartlepool is different from Leicester, Birmingham and Brent East, another
safe Labour seat the Lib-Dems won last year.

All three inner city seats have large ethnic minority populations who seem to
have been swayed by the Lib-Dem anti-war message.

By contrast, the population of Hartlepool is 99 per cent white (compared with a
national average of 92 per cent).

Yesterday Mr Mandelson said he had "agonised" about whether to go to Brussels
because of his loyalty to his constituency. He described it as "the political
bedrock of my life".

Trevor Bramley, 52, a fireman, was one of his many constituents who wanted to
stress that the loyalty was not mutual.

"Blair was wrong to give Mandelson this position. Mandy did a good job in
Ireland but, in the time he has been our MP, he has done nothing for the town,"
he said.

Maxine Leck, 34, a kitchen assistant, said: "How Tony Blair can hire Peter
Mandelson to this post is totally beyond me after everything he's done."

Brian Dukes, 71, a retired steel worker, said: "Here we go again with the old
pals' act between Blair and Mandelson. As far as I am concerned, and most of
Hartlepool I think, it is jolly good riddance."

Mr Mandelson has still not resigned as an MP and, under parliamentary rules,
this means the writ for the by-election cannot be moved until the Commons starts
sitting again on Sept 16. One theory last night was that Labour could time the
contest to coincide with the end of the Conservative Party conference, Oct 7,
but it could be much later.

At the last general election, Labour won 59 per cent of the vote in Hartlepool.
The Tories were on 21 per cent and Lib-Dems on 15 per cent. In last month's
council elections in Hartlepool, Labour won control of the council, with 31 per
cent of the vote but the Lib-Dems were not far behind with 22 per cent and the
Tories were on just 12 per cent.

In the European elections, Labour came first but the UK Independence Party came
second. Robert Kilroy-Silk, the UKIP MEP, said yesterday he was "seriously
considering" standing in the contest. "Mandelson's appointment shows that the EU
is a gravy train for failed politicians."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              59 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

HOUSEHOLD PLC How to run a 21st-century home.  This week: it's a man's job

BYLINE: by Rachel Simhon

SECTION: Weekend Pg. 03

LENGTH: 624 words

MI6 is in tatters, the army is about to be decimated, Iraq is as terrible as
ever, but what has caught our attention this week? The chunterings of a species

I thought long dead - the dyed-in-the-wool male chauvinist. I refer of course to
the unedifying spectacle of Godfrey Bloom, UKIP's newly elected MEP for
Yorkshire and the Humber, sporting a comedy bowler hat, twittering on about the
perils of "young ladies" in the workplace and single-handedly hoping to undo 30
years of employment legislation.

A digression - have you noticed that men who call women "ladies" are invariably
sexist? And that they call them "young ladies" when they want to be particularly
patronising? This elaborate use of old-fashioned genteelisms is said to be a
"courtesy" that shows "respect". But women are not fooled. We know that it
really disguises hatred and fear. And another thing: I was brought up to believe
that calling women "ladies" is common.

Anway, if Mr Bloom had his way, women would be back in the home. "I quite simply
feel that they don't clean behind the fridge," he said, later claiming on the
Today programme that it was just "a bit of fun".

Have you ever cleaned behind the fridge, Mr Bloom? I doubt it. Reams have been
written on this subject over the past few days, but I don't think anyone has
said that this is really no job for a woman. So here, especially for the Godfrey
Blooms of this world, is a Man's Guide to Cleaning Behind the Fridge.

Clean behind the fridge once a year and, to save time, do it on the same day
that you were planning to do the weekly clean of the interior. I have written
about cleaning fridges before, but here is a recap.

Switch off and unplug the fridge before cleaning. Remove all the contents and
the interior shelves, salad boxes and so forth. Wash these in a warm water and
detergent, rinse and leave to dry.

Tip: You are not supposed to put these in a dishwasher in case the heat warps
the plastic, but I have found a short eco-wash (35C) does no harm.

Wash the interior of the fridge with a solution of bicarbonate of soda and warm
water (2 tbsp to

2 pints). Rinse and wipe dry.

Wash the exterior of the fridge with a solution of warm water and detergent,
rinse and wipe dry. Counsel of perfection: polish the outside with a spray
cleaner/polish such as Mr Sheen, kept solely for this purpose (do not use on
wood).

Now pull the fridge away from the wall. Ah, how simple those eight words make it
sound - they are on a par with "just pop the pill down your cat's throat".
Fridges are extremely heavy, which is probably why most people don't bother
cleaning behind them. To make the job easier and to save your back, use an
appliance roller. Comet sells a Roultou appliance roller that costs pounds 29.99
and moves appliances weighing up to 250kg (08705 425425; www.comet.co.uk).

It is astonishing what gunge you will find behind the fridge and how grubby the
walls and floor are. First, vacuum or sweep up any crumbs. Then wash down the
walls and floor with household detergent (such as Flash) and water. Rinse and
wipe dry. Now spray walls and floor with Mr Sheen or similar. Spray only the
parts that will be covered by the fridge. The idea is to give a protective
coating so that next time cleaning is easier.

Before you put the fridge back, vacuum the coils at the back using the
upholstery attachment. Cleaning the coils will make your fridge work better and
last longer.

There is, of course, a simple solution to avoiding all of the above, and that is
to have fridges and freezers built in. This is what I do and I can say with some
pride that

I have never cleaned behind the fridge in the nine years I have lived in my
flat. After all, I've got a job to do.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              60 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 24, 2004

THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS RETURNS FROM DISGRACE TO THE CORRIDORS OF POWER WITH A
BUMPER PAY PACKAGE THROWN IN; BLAIR DOESN'T GIVE A DAMN

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 682 words


TONY Blair yesterday rode roughshod over his entire Cabinet and the British
taxpayer to give old friend Peter Mandelson a spectacular comeback.

The Prime Minister ignored the chorus of opposition from leading Cabinet
heavyweights to give him a GBP 2million top job in Brussel.

The only man to be sacked twice from the same Cabinet found himself in one of
the most sought-after jobs, as European Union Commissioner.

Mr Blair delayed his long-planned Cabinet reshuffle to make way for Mr
Mandelson's promotion to a seat at the lavish top table in Europe. The reward
was seen as a vote of thanks for standing by Mr Blair during a difficult period.
But the Prime Minister's trust ratings are set to plummet even further after
Mandelson's appointment.

Taxpayers will be infuriated that the so-called Prince of Darkness will be
entitled to a salary and perks of up to GBP 1million over five years.

With other payments and his pension, the total package is around GBP 2million.

The news stunned many Labour MPs who blame Mr Mandelson for the party's
reputation for spin and manipulation.

It will trigger a bitter by-election in Mr Mandelson's Hartlepool seat.

Despite a nearly 15,000 Labour majority, the seat is already being talked of as
winnable by the Liberal Democrats and Ukip.

Mr Blair telephoned European Commission President-elect Jose Manuel Barroso
yesterday to put forward Mr Mandelson's name and received "a positive response".

Mr Mandelson, who is expected to take up his job on November 1, said:

"It is a great honour as well as a huge challenge."

But he added: "I agonised over this decision because of my loyalty to my
constituents in Hartlepool."

He said Mr Blair was renewed and strengthened after a difficult year and is
going from strength to strength."

But Jonathan Evans, leader of Conservative MEPs in the European Parliament,
said: "Instead of appointing someone who would put Britain first, he has
appointed Peter Mandelson, a man who is only interested in putting Peter
Mandelson first."

Many eurosceptic politicians yesterday said Mr Mandelson's appointment would be
a boost for their cause. Vote No campaign director Neil O'Brien said: "We
welcome the appointment of Peter Mandelson.

Who better to put the case for the European Constitution in the coming
referendum than a discredited politician whose name is a byword for lies and
spin? As the UK Commissioner, Mandelson will play a leading role in the
referendum campaign.

"We think this debate is going to be about people versus politicians, and having
Mandelson leading the yes side will help underline that. He's the perfect symbol
of what people don't like about politics today."

But Mr Blair paid tribute to his friend Mr Mandelson, saying he is "the best
person for the job". He said: "Europe is Britain's biggest economic market. It
has expanded to 25 countries and this is a really critical appointment and we
have got to get the best person and I think he is the best person for the
country."

Labour Left-winger Jeremy Corbyn said he was astounded by Mr Mandelson's
"Lazarus-like" return.

"Do we really need dark arts and media manipulation and spin running Europe?" he
asked.

Mr Mandelson is reported to have wanted to return to the Cabinet but there was
fierce opposition from ministers, including John Prescott.

Mr Mandelson was first forced to resign as Trade and Industry Secretary in
December 1999 after it emerged he had secretly borrowed GBP 373,000 from Labour
minister and tycoon Geoffrey Robinson to help him buy a lavish London flat.

Then, after being brought back into the Cabinet as Northern Ireland Secretary,
Mr Mandelson was forced to quit over the application of British passports by two
Indian billionaires.

The appointment comes ahead of what could be a long run-up to a referendum on
the European Constitution.

Britain's two current commissioners, ex-Labour leader Neil Kinnock and former
Tory chairman Chris Patten, are stepping down. EU enlargement means Britain will
now have only one commissioner.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              61 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 24, 2004

LEADER BADDIES TWIRL IT, GIRLS WEAR IT, EVEN DOTTY MEPS WAVE IT, THE HEADGEAR
THAT BRIMS WITH STYLE HAS ENDURING ELEGANCE; HATS OFF TO THE NATTY BOWLER

BYLINE: Paul Callan

SECTION: LEADER; Pg.  15

LENGTH: 1421 words


THERE was general agreement among those of us who gather regularly in the snug
of the Groin And Gherkin to discuss the world's ups and downs that the MEP
Godfrey Bloom had gone a grudge too far.

"That bit about women staying at home and being made to clean behind the fridge
was a bit OTT, " said the barrister of the group.

"The wife exploded when I jokily said that he had a point. Thought I was saying
she was a slut and never cleaned the house properly."

The City broker among us chimed in: "What do you expect from a Ukip man?"

Then the long-retired colonel, who usually says little, observed: "Well, he had
one redeeming feature - he wore a bowler hat.

Can't be all bad."

And so he did. There, accompanying the newspaper reports of his terrible non-PC
outburst, were pictures of a smiling Mr Bloom genially waving his black bowler
hat.

It was a truly dated sight. The only time you see it now is on black-and-white
pre-war newsreels when politicians such as Stanley Baldwin, immaculate in black
jackets, pinstripe trousers and shirts with stand-up collars, would pause on the
steps of No 10 and, Bloom-like, shake their bowlers at the cheering crowd. (In
those more innocent days, regular bowler-shaking did wonders in the polls. )
There was a time when the bowler was as much a part of our national identity as
Elgar, steak and kidney pudding, village cricket, Sunday motoring, standing for
the National Anthem and listening to the Home Service.

But then came the dreaded Sixties, the decade so hated by Tony Blair for turning
the country into a crime-riddled, drug-hazed land. That apart, it also swept
bowlers, and just about every other hat, from our heads.

The only time you saw a bowler in action was in a revival of Charlie Chaplin or
Laurel and Hardy films. Chaplin, in particular, used his old hat to great comic
advantage. And Hardy (the fat one) was always sitting on his.

IN the more modern-day film world, there was a murderous scene involving a
bowler in the James Bond adventure, Goldfinger, when Oddjob, the Korean minder,
spun his steel-brimmed job like a frisbee - for decapitation. (He got his
comeuppance while trying to retrieve said bowler from a high-voltage fence). And
on television in The Avengers, John Steed, played by Patrick Macnee, often
deployed his bowler together with his furled umbrella.

Oh, and there was Liza Minnelli who, deeply sexy in black stockings and jaunty
bowler, invited us all to "come, join the Cabaret".

But for the rest, the dear old bowler has virtually vanished from the everyday
scene. Yet, amazingly, it survives in small displays of defiance. The Orangemen
of Belfast still trudge on marching days sporting their bowlers. Every year on
Remembrance Sunday, former officers dust down their bowlers and march down
Whitehall. The more venerable the soldier, the older the bowler and last year I
noticed more than a few had an aged, greenish hue.

Yet the bowler survives. At Lock and Co, hatters of St James's, around since
1676, a display of them greets you.

There, amid the sepulchral hush and all the trilbies, is a small brigade of
sturdy-looking bowlers. Andrew Baselgia, the manager, lifts one lovingly from
its stand, holds it up and gazes at it with some awe. "So balanced, such an
elegant shape, so right for a gentleman, " he says, with the reverence of one
whose life is hats.

"We were delighted to see Mr Bloom wearing a bowler, although it did not appear
to be one of ours." There is just a hint of disapproval and Mr Baselgia returns
to lavishing his attention on the hat.

Bowlers were invented by a 19th century landowner called Coke - one of the
Lock's hunting bowlers is called the Extra Firm Coke - so that his gamekeepers
would not have their hats knocked off by low branches or club-wielding poachers.

"They were made by a firm called Bowler Brothers - hence the name, " says Mr
Baselgia, gently placing the black hat on my head.

"Hmm, nice fit, " he says. "Should always sit just above the eyebrows. Yes, you
look every inch the City gent." (I think I look like a grinning Oxford college
porter).

Mr Baselgia is a staunch champion of the bowler (although he tends to wear a
worsted trilby on the way in from Surrey every day). The truth is that Lock and
Co, who have held royal warrants for centuries, sell around 150 bowlers a year.
The problem is that they are so well-made, they tend to last. There is no
built-in collapse in their bowlers, a sudden tattiness or brim rot indicating
time for a new one. Invest in a GBP 205 bowler and it will usually see you off.

There are, of course, different styles. The curly-brimmed one is still worn by
Guards officers in civvies (it is a regulation, along with pinstriped suit and
rolled umbrella).

Then there is the larger, higher-domed bowler much favoured by gentlemen farmers
who sport them at their local pointto-point and while driving around in their
brand new Range Rovers.

"And there are stewards at racecourses, " says Mr Baselgia, warming to his
subject, "and judges at agricultural shows."

donned cape, deerstalker, goggles and gauntlets to sit for a picture in the
driving seat of a veteran car. I became, instantly, Mr Toad (a nickname that has
persisted) and occasionally on cold days will don the old deerstalker - with the
flaps down.

But at Lock's, there is an astonishing array of headgear. Grandees with craniums
of every shape and size have been catered for. There is a certain romantic aura
to the whole business. A super-senior colleague, who sports an elegant Lock's
hat, recalls the words of one assistant when he paid them a visit. Holding up a
fine trilby, he uttered the memorable observation: "I'm sure you will agree,
sir, that this is a lively bit of felt."

BOTH Nelson and the Duke of Wellington were provided with hats - military and
civilian. Sir Winston Churchill purchased his famous flattop bowlers there, the
novelist Evelyn Waugh favoured one that looked as if it should have been worn by
a gamekeeper (a fact the snobbish Waugh had somehow missed).

On the wall, they even display a handwritten letter from Charlie Chaplin in 1962
promising to drop by for a chapeau or two.

That male fashion plate and failed king, the Duke of Windsor, always bought hats
in the shop, favouring a rather spivvy line in tweed trilbies. And in today's
world, customers have included Eric Clapton, both Sir Paul and daughter Stella
McCartney, as well as Larry "Dallas" Hagman and the dapper ex-pugilist and
talker, Chris Eubank.

"The chef, Marco Pierre White always buys his broad-brimmed, high-domed trilbies
from here, " says Mr Baselgia, removing one reverentially from a peg. "We call
it the Louisiana. You really need to be around six foot three inches tall, and
with rather broad shoulders, to wear it with any style and aplomb." I see his
point. Standing at five feet, eight-and-a-half inches, and being extremely
rotund, I look like a dumpy toadstool once I have placed the wide Louisana on my
bonce.

There are the Racing Trilbies, dark brown and smart and worn by trainers and
owners at racecourses. I look quite the part in the Sandown, although the dark
brown and green Wetherby looks dapper, as does the Haydock in racing felt. The
Homburg (or Anthony Eden, named after the disastrous Tory PM of the mid-Fifties)
looks ludicrous and the Sinatra pork pie hat gives me the look of an extremely
dodgy brush salesman.

They even stock a Lock's version of the stetson. "We have had Americans come in
to buy them, " says Mr B, "but that rather is a case of coals to Newcastle."

LOCK and Co will even provide a hat made-to-measure. The shape is worked out by
a weird contraption called a Conformitor, a spiky-looking machine that might
well have been used in the Spanish Inquisition for head crushing.

Fortunately, it only traces out the shape of your head and I am taken aback to
see that mine has the contours of a battered old potato. I quite like all the
caps, although after trying on a tweed number which looks good pulled well
forward, I keep thinking of that old Monty Python Sketch, The Upper Class Twit
Of The Year contest.

After much reflection, I think I shall invest in a snazzy trilby - possibly the
Sandown (price GBP 135). This will look good while hanging around the unsaddling
enclosure. All I need now is a horse to go with it.

No bowler? Nah, leave that to college porters, bull judges, ladies riding
sidesaddle. Oh, and Ukip MEPs with daft notions.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              62 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 24, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; HATS OFF TO THE BOWLER

BYLINE: Paul Callan

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 892 words


THERE was general agreement among those of us who gather regularly in the snug
of the Groin and Gherkin to discuss the world's ups and downs that the MEP
Godfrey Bloom had gone a grudge too far.

"That bit about women staying at home and being made to clean behind the fridge
was a bit OTT, " said the lawyer of the group. The broker among us chimed in:

"What do you expect from a UKIP man?"

Then the long-retired colonel observed: "Well, he had one redeeming feature - he
wore a bowler hat. Can't be all bad."

And so he did. There, accompanying the newspaper reports of his terrible non-PC
outburst, were pictures of a smiling Mr Bloom genially waving his black bowler.

It was a truly dated sight. The only time you see it now is on old
black-and-white, pre-war newsreels when politicians like Stanley Baldwin -
immaculate in black jackets, pinstripe trousers and shirts with stand-up collars
- would pause on the steps of No10 and, Bloom-like, waggle their bowlers at the
cheering crowd opposite.

There was a time when the bowler was as much a part of our national identity as
Sunday motoring and listening to the Home Service. But then came the dreaded
Sixties. Thereon, the only time you saw a bowler in action was in a revival of
old Charlie Chaplin or Laurel and Hardy films.

Recently, however, the bowler enjoyed a sensual cinematic moment. In the film
version of Milan Kundera's brilliant novel, The Unbearable Likeness of Being,
actress Lena Olins dons a bowler whenever she wants sex.

Then there was a murderous scene involving the bowler in the James Bond movie
Goldfinger, when Oddjob, the Korean minder, spun his steel-brimmed job like a
frisbee - for decapitation.

Oh, and there was Liza Minelli who, deeply sexy in black stockings and jaunty
bowler, invited us all to "come, join the Cabaret".

But for the rest, the dear old bowler has virtually vanished from the everyday
scene.

Yet, amazingly, it survives in small displays of defiance. The Orangemen of
Belfast still trudge on marching days sporting their bowlers, along with their
special brand of bigotry and borrowed Britishness.

And every year on Remembrance Sunday, former officers dust down their old
bowlers and march down Whitehall, umbrellas held like rifles.

At Lock and Sons, hatters of St James's, and around since 1676, a display of
them greets you. Andrew Baselgia, the manager, lifts one lovingly from its
stand, holds it up, and gazes at it with some awe.

"So balanced, such an elegant shape, so right for a gentleman, " he says.

Bowlers were really invented by a 19th century landowner called Coke so that his
gamekeepers would not have their hats knocked off by low-branches or
club-wielding poachers.

"They were made by a firm called Bowler Brothers, hence the name, " explains Mr
Baselgia, gently placing the black hat on my head.

"Hmm, nice fit, " he observes."It should always sit just above the eyebrows."

Lock and Sons, who have held Royal Warrants for covering regal heads stretching
back across the centuries, sell only around 150 bowlers a year. The problem is
that they are so well-made they tend to last. Invest in GBP 205 bowler and it
will usually see you off.

There are, of course, different styles.

The curly-brimmed bowler is still worn by Guards officers in civvies (it is a
regulation, along with pin-striped suit and rolled umbrella). Then there is the
larger, higherdomed bowler much favoured by Gentlemen Farmers who sport them at
their local point-to-point.

At Lock's, there was an astonishing array of headgear and it comes as little
surprise that grandees, with craniums of every shape and size, have been catered
for.

Both Nelson and the Duke of Wellington were provided with hats - both military
and civilian. Sir Winston Churchill purchased his famous flat-top bowlers there,
the novelist Evelyn Waugh favoured a bowler that looked that it should have been
worn by a gamekeeper (a fact snobbish Waugh missed). That malefashion plate and
failed King, the Duke of Windsor, always bought hats in the shop, favouring a
rather spivvy line in tweed trilbies.

And in today's world, customers have included Eric Clapton, both Sir Paul and
daughter Stella McCartney, as well as Larry "Dallas" Hagman and the dapper
ex-pugilist and talker, Chris Eubank.

There were the Racing Trilbies, dark brown and smart and of the type worn (best
with one of those coats that come with brown velvet collars) by the more
upmarket trainers and owners at race courses around the country.

THEY even stocked a Lock's version of the stetson: a vast cowboy hat with the
widest brim this side of Rio Grande. "We have had Americans come in to buy them,
" says Mr B, "but that rather is a case of coals to Newcastle."

For the truly fussy, Lock will sell a hatmade-to-measure. The exact shape is
worked out by weird contraption called a Conformitor, a spiky-looking machine
that might well have been used in the Spanish Inquisition for a bit a
head-crushing.

After much reflection, I think I shall return and invest in a snazzy trilby,
possibly the Sandown (price GBP 135). This will look good while hanging around
the unsaddling enclosure. No bowler? Nah, I'll leave that to college porters,
red-faced bull judges, ladies riding sidesaddle. Oh. . . and UKIP MEPs with daft
notions.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              63 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 24, 2004

RICHARD & JUDY; DOH! IT'S A HOMER MOMENT FOR KILROY

BYLINE: RICHARD & JUDY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 172 words


J - ROBERT KILROY-SILK must be holding his head in despair. One of the UK
Independence Party MEPs, Mr Godfrey Bloom, who represents Yorkshire and the
Humber, has just been chosen by the party to serve on the European Parliament's
Women's Rights Committee. Hours later he goes on record with his views on women
and their rights: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have dinner
on the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights."

On maternity policy he said: "No self-respecting small businessman with a brain
in the right place would ever employ a lady of child bearing age. (It's) a fact
of life." He slammed the concept of maternity leave and as an aside added that
women "don't clean behind the fridge enough. If you want to have a baby, you
hand in your resignation and free up a job for another young lady". On the one
hand it's entertaining to know that men in Yorkshire haven't changed.

On the other Robert Kilroy-Silk must be doing a big fat Homer Simpson. "Doh and
double doh."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              64 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 24, 2004

Mandelson the comeback: Kilroy-Silk considers byelection challenge

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words


Hartlepool yesterday found itself at the centre of a political battle that will
run through the summer and could see the UK Independence party celebrity Robert
Kilroy-Silk battling for the seat against Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, whose morning television chat show was axed by the BBC after he
made controversial remarks about Arab states, said yesterday that he was
"seriously considering" standing for the seat.

"I am coming under considerable pressure from the party to do so," he told the
Press Association. Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, said Mr Mandelson's
appointment exposed the EU as a "gravy train for failed politicians. If I was a
constituent I would feel very used and angry and would want to take my revenge
on Labour at the byelection".

Mr Mandelson's move to Brussels means he must give up his Westminster seat. On
the face of it, Labour should have no trouble keeping the constituency, which it
won in 2001 with a 14,571 majority over the Conservatives. But the party expects
a dual challenge from the Lib Dems - third last time, but now on a roll after
two byelection surges this month - and Ukip, strengthened by their powerful
showing in the European elections.

The Conservatives, second last time, are seen as less of a threat, but election
outcomes are always unpredictable in a town that elected the local football
club's monkey mascot as its mayor.

Ukip activists Peter Troy and Chris Williamson had been doing a spot of
byelection planning at the Dun Cow, the Sedgefield pub made famous by assorted
Euro-visitors - Jacques Chirac, Romano Prodi - to Mr Mandelson's neighbouring MP
Tony Blair. "It's not just that we came second in Hartlepool in the European
elections last month," said Mr Troy. "We also missed getting one of our 10
council candidates in by one vote."

"We're a very maverick town too, you know," said Louise Cole, strapping her
17-month-old son Archie into his pushchair. "To be honest, I was a bit
embarrassed about the monkey man getting in as mayor, but it did say something
about how people feel."

Mr Mandelson, by contrast, attracts a startling level of bile. Mrs Cole's
mother, whose husband tried in vain to get the MP to solve a pension problem,
spat out: "Do we see him? Oh yes, we see him in Tesco's, but it's only trying to
show that he's one of the people."

There is even a possible wild card candidate. From his sloop Rich Harvest, which
has just made headlines as a "floating off-licence" moored 13 miles out to sea
from Hartlepool, entrepreneur Phil Berriman said he too might stand, to pursue
his own disillusioned battle against the government and HM Customs.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

PM IS WARNED THAT MANDELSON'S RETURN COULD COST EURO POLL

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR Peter Mandelson returning to his
Hartlepool constituency yesterday Richard Rayner

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 578 words


TONY BLAIR defied furious Labour backbench MPs yesterday to appoint his friend
Peter Mandelson as Britain's European Commissioner. But the Prime Minister was
warned that it could cost him the referendum on the European Union constitution.

Labour MPs said there would be a bigger "no" vote against the EU constitution as
a result of Mr Blair's appointment of Mr Mandelson to the pounds 143,000- a-year
post in Brussels, which comes with a pounds 24,000 housing and chauffeur
allowance, a generous pension and pounds 7,000-a-year entertaining budget.

A senior minister said that Mr Blair was prepared to "take the hit" of the
personal damage over accusations of "cronyism" and the possible loss of the safe
Labour seat in Hartlepool in a subsequent by-election, which could be contested
by Robert Kilroy-Silk for the United Kingdom Independence Party. "We will win it
back at the general election," said the minister.

Mr Blair was warned by Labour critics he would do lasting damage to the
Government's chances of winning a "yes" vote in the referendum. Giving Mr
Mandelson the role as Britain's sole EU commissioner, replacing Neil Kinnock and
Chris Patten, will thrust him back into the high-profile front line of politics.
But it is a high risk for Mr Mandelson who will attract all the Eurosceptic
criticism that was directed at his predecessors.

Mr Kinnock said Mr Mandelson was a highly capable politician who would support
European and British interests in Brussels. Simon Buckby, the former campaign
director of Britain in Europe, said: "Peter has got to understand this is his
last chance."

John Cryer, the Labour MP for Hornchurch and a leading member of Labour's "no"
campaign, said: "This is not going to help their campaign for the constitution -
the embodiment of New Labour leading the yes' campaign is going to pile up the
votes for those who are going to oppose the treaty."

Kate Hoey, the former sports minister, said: "This is good news for the "no"
campaign against the constitution. Peter represents the things people don't like
about Europe - he reminds people why they plan to vote no." Ian Davidson, Labour
MP for Glasgow Pollok and leader of the Labour Against a Superstate campaign,
said: "Peter Mandelson represents those who support moves towards a European
superstate - that's something Labour supporters ... don't want."

Mr Mandelson brushed aside criticism from anti-EU Labour MPs before taking the
London train to Hartlepool to visit his constituency. He was being tipped last
night for the Single Market portfolio, and pro-EU Labour MPs said he would play
a decisive role in the "yes" campaign for the constitution. Keith Vaz, a former
minister for Europe, said: "What we need in Brussels is a big beast, not a pussy
cat."

His appointment was confirmed after a week of agonising by Mr Mandelson and Mr
Blair over his departure from Westminster politics. Mr Mandelson pleaded for a
cabinet post. Mr Blair also wanted to appoint him but was persuaded in private
meetings last week by his most senior cabinet colleagues that it would cause a
revolt in the party.

Allies of Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, said they had no objection to Mr
Mandelson taking the European post. "We think it is better to be shot of him,"
said one MP.

But Mr Brown will have noted that Mr Mandelson made it plain yesterday that he
intended to continue to exert private influence on Mr Blair.

Donald Macintyre, page 39

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              66 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

KILROY-SILK CONSIDERS RUNNING IN HARTLEPOOL

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the former television presenter who became Euro MP for the
UK Independence Party at the elections in June, said yesterday he was "seriously
considering" running for the Hartlepool seat vacated by Peter Mandelson.

Mr Kilroy-Silk caused a major upset in the Euro elections by winning a seat for
the UKIP in the East Midlands and he could benefit at Hartlepool from an anti-EU
backlash.

The Liberal Democrats were beaten into third place by the Conservatives in
Hartlepool in the 2001 election. But with the Tories coming third in two recent
by-elections in the Midlands, the Liberal Democrats are seen as the party most
likely to benefit from protest votes against the Government..

In Hartlepool yesterday voters were shedding no tears at the departure of their
MP. Maxine Leck, 34, a kitchen assistant, said: "It's not a good decision for
the country but it might be for Hartlepool - he has not been good for the town."

General election 2001

Lab 22,506 (59.1 per cent); Con 7,935 (20.9 per cent); Lib Dem 5,717 (15 per
cent).

Labour majority 14,571.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

MANDELSON'S RETURN COULD COST EURO POLL, PM WARNED

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR Peter Mandelson returning to his
Hartlepool constituency yesterday Richard Rayner

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


TONY BLAIR defied furious Labour backbench MPs yesterday to appoint his friend
Peter Mandelson as Britain's European commissioner. But the Prime Minister was
warned that it could cost him the referendum on the European Union constitution.

Labour MPs said there would be a bigger "no" vote against the EU constitution as
a result of Mr Blair's appointment of Mr Mandelson to the pounds 143,000- a-year
post in Brussels, which comes with a pounds 24,000 housing and chauffeur
allowance, a generous pension and an entertaining budget of pounds 7,000-a-
year.

A senior minister said that Mr Blair was prepared to "take the hit" of the
personal damage over accusations of "cronyism" and the possible loss of the safe
Labour seat in Hartlepool in a subsequent by-election, which could be contested
by Robert Kilroy-Silk for the United Kingdom Independence Party. "We will win it
back at the general election," said the minister. Labour critics said he would
do lasting damage to the Government's chances of winning a "yes" vote in the
referendum. Giving Mr Mandelson the role as Britain's sole EU commissioner,
replacing Neil Kinnock and Chris Patten, will thrust him back into the
high-profile front line of politics. But it is a high risk for Mr Mandelson, who
will attract all the Eurosceptic criticism that was directed at his
predecessors.

Mr Kinnock said that Mr Mandelson was a highly capable politician who would
support European and British interests in Brussels. Simon Buckby, the former
campaign director of Britain in Europe, said: "Peter has got to understand this
is his last chance."

John Cryer, the Labour MP for Hornchurch and a leading member of Labour's "no"
campaign, said: "This is not going to help their campaign for the constitution -
the embodiment of New Labour leading the yes' campaign is going to pile up the
votes for those who are going to oppose the treaty."

Kate Hoey, a former sports minister, said: "This is good news for the "no"
campaign against the constitution. Peter represents the things people don't like
about Europe - he reminds people why they plan to vote no."

Ian Davidson, MP for Glasgow Pollok and leader of the Labour Against a
Superstate campaign, said: "Peter Mandelson represents those who support moves
towards a European superstate - that's something Labour supporters don't want."

His appointment was confirmed after a week of agonising by Mr Mandelson and Mr
Blair over his departure from Westminster politics. Mr Mandelson pleaded for a
cabinet post. Mr Blair wanted to appoint him but was persuaded in private
meetings last week by senior cabinet colleagues that it would cause a revolt in
the party.

Mr Mandelson was being tipped last night for the Single Market portfolio.

Donald Macintyre, page 39

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              68 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

HARTLEPOOL GETS STUCK INTO MP WHO CASHED CHIPS FOR GRAVY TRAIN

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 328 words


IT IS said that Peter Mandelson never endeared himself to his Hartlepool
constituents after a story - perhaps apocryphal - emerged that he confused the
fish and chip shop side order of mushy peas with guacamole, a rather more
metropolitan delicacy.

Certainly some voters were shedding no tears yesterday at the news that their MP
for the last 12 years would be leaving.

Maxine Leck, 34, a kitchen assistant, said: "It's not a good decision for the
country but it might be for Hartlepool - he has not been good for the town."

Trevor Bramley, a 52-year-old fireman, said: "Blair was wrong to give Mandelson
this position."

Others, such as Brian Dukes, 71, a retired steel worker, sensed cronyism in the
appointment. "Here we go again with the old pals act between Blair and
Mandelson," he said. "As far as I am concerned - and most of Hartlepool I think
- it is jolly good riddance."

But if they thought their next MP would lack the fame - or perhaps infamy - of
Mr Mandelson, then they could soon be in for a shock. Robert Kilroy- Silk, the
former television presenter adopted as mascot of the UK Independence Party,
immediately expressed an interest in succeeding the future EU commissioner, who
had a majority of 14,500 at the last election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who caused an upset in the Euro elections by winning a seat for
UKIP in the East Midlands, said: "I am coming under considerable pressure from
the party to do so. I am seriously considering doing it.

"This appointment of Mandelson shows that the European Union is a gravy train
for failed politicians," he added, getting the war of political words off to a
premature start.

"Hartlepool is a fishing port which has been decimated by the European fisheries
policy," said a UKIP spokesman. "The Liberal Democrats will find it hard to
justify their pro-European stance there. We can attract Old Labour voters who
may not take kindly to seeing their MP desert them for Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              69 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

MAGGIE BARRY: SILLY OLD UKIP DUFFER

BYLINE: MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: Scots Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 145 words


GODFREY Bloom is the old duffer who proves the UK Independence Party is already
past its sell-by date.

He's the one who said women don't clean often enough behind the fridge and that
small businesses would never employ a woman of child bearing age. Am I incensed
or outraged?

Surprisingly neither, because men like him are such pathetic examples of
panicking lemmings trying to ward off the inevitable.

There was a time when I would have been furious and exasperated. Now, I am
merely mildly irritated by someone who is so inherently foolish.

I also hope others - particularly women - who actually support the UKIP think
again.

Our right to vote is a hard-won democratic privilege that countries all over the
world envy.

The question now is why would anyone in this country throw away such a precious
freedom by using it to support the UKIP?

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              70 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

VILLAIN OF THE WEEK

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 22 words


UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom, who said no businessman in his right
mind would employ "a lady of child-bearing age."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              71 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

SOUND BITES;
 THE WEEK IN QUOTES

BYLINE: COMPILED BY DAMIEN FLETCHER & DANIEL BOFFEY

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 380 words


"I keep thinking of those ridiculous photos of Michael in a shocking wig at
Disneyland looking ridiculous."

- Nicole Kidman on not dating Michael Jackson

"Whatever mistakes have been made, let us rejoice, let us be pleased that Iraq
has been liberated."

- Prime Minister Tony Blair echoes Margaret Thatcher's "rejoice" speech

"Did he use a tool to give it to you or did he use his hands?"

Big Brother's Shell to Michelle about Stu

"I had the audacity to say those horrifying words, 'I'm 40', which I thought was
great and sexy and fun but they must have misheard me and thought I said: 'I
have leprosy'."

Sharon Stone on ageist movie bosses

"I'm stuck with it."

- Julie Thomas, the 15-year-old who had Winnie the Pooh tattooed onto her arm

"It's the biggest curse in the world."

- Actress Keira Knightley dislikes fame

"I'm really pleased they have split up, He is far too nice for her. They were
not similar at all. She is ambitious, but not in a nice way, more of a vulgar
way."

- Sven's ex Graziella Mancinelli, 54, shows some sisterly love for Nancy

"I'd like a smaller botty."

- Northern Ireland Secretary turned agony aunt Mo Mowlam on the part of her body
she would most like to change

"The alternative to having a child who can give him a stem-cell transplant is to
let my son die."

- Joe Fletcher after being told he and his wife are allowed to have a "designer
baby" to treat their sick two-year-old

"I'm commitment-phobic. You'd think I could cure myself, but I can't."

- Hypnotist Paul McKenna on why he isn't in for it the long-term

"Youths screaming four-letter expletives into the faces of police officers,
yelling at pensioners; groups of youths intimidating shopkeepers and chanting
racist abuse. The gentle touch has created many monsters whose only interest is
that their needs be met."

- Nottinghamshire Chief Constable Steve Green gets tough on crime and tough on
the causes of crime

HERO of the week

Film star Dustin Hoffman, who saved the life of Lydia Graham when she had an
allergic reaction to a bee sting on Malibu Beach.

VILLAIN of the week

UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom, who said no businessman in his right
mind would employ "a lady of child-bearing age."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 24, 2004

STOP TAKING THE MICHAEL

BYLINE: Jeremy Clarkson

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 421 words


SO, women of child-bearing age should not be employed in case they actually have
a child and want maternity leave.

Instead, they should get back to the kitchen, where they can make themselves
useful, cleaning out the fridge and generally being an all-purpose Swiss army
knife for their husbands.

I'm not surprised that Godfrey Bloom, UKIP's new Euro MP, has these views. What
does surprise me is that he actually said them out loud.

On a personal note, I think UKIP is a silly party with silly ideals but my God,
how wonderful to hear a politician speaking his mind for a change.

Not that long ago, people went in to politics because they had a vision, an idea
of how they thought the country should be run.

Mrs Thatcher, for instance, wanted to smash the unions and make everyone
responsible for their own welfare.

Mr Blair, on the other hand, joined the Labour Party when it stood for one thing
and worked tirelessly to make it stand for something quite different. Why? So he
could achieve power. And nowadays he changes his mind, and even his accent,
simply to make himself more popular. So he can hang on to that power.

Then you have Michael Howard.

Oh dear.

The Tories keep accusing Blair of nicking their ideas. What's wrong with that?
If those ideas are good, what does it matter if they're being implemented by
someone else?

If you care about the country, you'll be happy with that. Only if you want power
will you complain.

This week, Howard had Blair on the ropes. It was the big debate on why we
invaded Iraq and everyone in the real world knew His Tonyness was in serious
trouble.

But Howard was stuck. He claimed Blair had sexed-up the intelligence saying the
spy's "qualified judgments" had become the Prime Minister's "unqualified
certainties" which is a polite way of saying "Tony. You're a lying little
weasel".

The obvious conclusion we can draw from this is that if the Tories knew then
what they know now, they wouldn't have supported the war.

But Howard couldn't say this because that would mean abandoning the troops and
the families of those who've been killed. So to try to keep everyone happy, he
said he still thought the invasion of Iraq was a good thing.

For crying out loud man. Get off the damn fence and tell us straight what you
actually think.

This is why politics is now so crushingly dull. Both main parties are trying to
second-guess what's going on in our heads.

But I already know what I'm thinking because I'm thinking it.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              73 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 24, 2004

MANDY: BRITAIN CAN RELY ON ME

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

LENGTH: 518 words


'No mistakes' pledge over EU job

PETER Mandelson seized his third chance of a top job in politics last night and
vowed not to fluff it.

The comeback king of Westminster admitted his appointment as Britain's European
Commissioner would spark a backlash from voters -but vowed to fight for a better
deal in Brussels.

And he promised to avoid the blunders which led to him being sacked twice from
the Cabinet.

Mandy, 50, declared: "People make mistakes and I paid a high price for mine.
I'll keep my feet firmly planted on the ground.

"What I want to do in Europe is create an efficient, social-democrat way of
thinking and working that will benefit the British people and all European
citizens.

Protests

"I think it is better to send someone to Europe who believes in it, rather than
someone who doesn't."

Tony Blair snubbed protests from senior ministers to hand Mr Mandelson the post.

And his appointment will trigger a high-risk by-election in Hartlepool when he
takes up his Brussels position in November.

Mr Mandelson, pictured right yesterday, pledged to do his best for Britain.

He said: "I am an unqualified supporter of Tony Blair and all he stands for.

"It is true that does make me unpalatable to some people in the Labour Party.

"But I hope that they, along with other members of the public, will say: 'Love
him or loathe him, he is a strong guy. We need such a person to bat for a
stronger Europe in Brussels. Give him a chance.'" Mr Mandelson, who kept the PM
sweating overnight before accepting the Pounds 195,000-a-year job, added: "It is
a great honour and a huge challenge and I'll give it my all. I agonised over
this decision because of my loyalty to my constituents."

Gordon Brown, below right, was furious after Mr Blair ignored his advice and
brought Mr Mandelson in from the cold.

The PM, below left, said yesterday: "The job of European Commissioner is vital
for this country. Peter Mandelson has the skills, ability and contacts in Europe
to make a great success of it."

Angry

But Mandy's return sparked an angry response from some Labour MPs.

Glasgow MP Ian Davidson said: "It is as if Mr Blair was almost hypnotised by
Mandelson into making this offer. This is a real slap in the face for our
party."

And Tory chairman Liam Fox said: "Once again, the Prime Minister has put his
friends in the Labour Party ahead of the country.

"Mr Mandelson will never stand up for the interests of Britain in Europe because
he has always argued the case for Europe in Britain."

For the next five years Mr Mandelson will draw a Pounds 163,500 salary, Pounds
7,000 entertainment expenses and travel perks -plus a chauffeur-driven car and
housekeeping worth Pounds 24,000.

Ex-chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk last night said he was "seriously
considering" standing for Mandy's seat in the by-election, hotly tipped to be
held on November 4.

The newly-elected UKIP Euro MP said: "If I was a constituent, I would feel very
angry by this appointment and would want to take my revenge on Labour."

The Sun Says -Page Six


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              74 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 24, 2004, Saturday

Mandelson looks forward to new world

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 1060 words


European commissioner will continue in his role as a confidant to Tony Blair, he
tells Philip Webster.

PETER MANDELSON is "lucky and grateful" but also daunted to be given the chance
to revive his political career in Brussels, he told The Times yesterday.

The former Cabinet minister promised that he would not let Tony Blair down after
the Prime Minister gambled by asking him to take on the commissioner's job,
despite having twice asked him to leave the Cabinet.

"He has placed a lot of confidence and faith in me, for which I am grateful, and
I do not intend to let him or the British people down," he said.

But as the latest move in Mr Mandelson's extraordinary career was attacked by
the Conservatives and Labour MPs, the UKIP's leading figure Robert Kilroy-Silk
appeared ready to fight for the soon-to-be-vacant Hartlepool seat. The former
Labour MP said he was "seriously considering" calls to stand in a by-election
that would inevitably develop into a battle over Britain's place in Europe. The
UKIP picked up 12 seats in last month's European elections and is keen to make
its mark in a national election Mr Mandelson, who was twice forced to leave the
Cabinet, is likely to give up the seat in September so that a by-election can be
called in October. He had a 14,700 majority at the last general election and the
UKIP would find itself in a tough fight with the resurgent Liberal Democrats to
take the anti-Labour protest vote.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said the appointment of Mr Mandelson showed that the EU was a
"gravy train" for failed politicians. "He has never been the natural person to
represent the people of Hartlepool. Now the Prime Minsiter has found him
something better to do he is off, without a thought for his constituency," he
added.

Mr Blair defended his decision."The simple truth is he is the best person for
the job, he has got the right skills, the talent, ability and contacts in
Europe," he said.

Mr Mandelson said that it would be a "huge wrench" to leave Mr Blair's side,
admitting that it had been the cause of the delay and confusion over the
appointment over the previous 48 hours, and to leave his Hartlepool constituents
who had stuck by him "through thick and thin".

But he confirmed the suspicions of most at Westminster when he hinted that he
did not see his role as a leading confidant to Mr Blair ending. "Of course it
will be different in future," he said. "That is what has preoccupied me in my
discussions over recent days. But let us keep a sense of proportion about this.

"Things will be different. That is inevitable. But when I am not travelling I
will be returning to my home in Britain every weekend and of course there are
telephones, e-mails and faxes."

To emphasise the point he added: "I am not going off to live in outer Siberia. I
am a three-hour train ride away."

Asked by The Times whether Mr Blair still needed Mr Mandelson alongside him, he
replied: "I think the Prime Minister needs me less now than at any time in the
last year. He has had a difficult year. He ends it in a much stronger position
than he was, with a renewed sense of purpose, very much on the front foot. I am
not walking away from him, or new Labour, or what the Labour Government is
doing.

But events move on."

Mr Mandelson was careful not to rule out a return to British politics, saying:
"Let us get one job done properly first."

There has been speculation that Mr Mandelson would like to be appointed to the
influential trade portfolio in Brussels. But he said: "I am not going to express
any preference at all about portfolios.

"If the President of the Commission were to ask me to be commissioner for
paperclips, I would of course do that. I wouldn't be thrilled, but it is his
decision. He makes his own Commission. He distributes the portfolios."

Mr Mandelson acknowledged that he was "unpalatable" to some members of the
Labour Party, but said that reports of his unpopularity were overblown.

He hoped the public would respond to his appointment by saying: "Love him or
loathe him, he is a strong guy. We need someone to bat for Britain in Brussels.

Give him a chance."

Mr Mandelson added that he had been "an uncompromising moderniser in the Labour
Party. I was at the cutting edge of change in the Labour Party for all those
years."

He rejected suggestions that his earlier resignations should have ruled him out
of a prominent public post. "Of course, in politics and in life, nobody is
blameless," he said.

"People make mistakes, and I paid a very high price for those mistakes, in one
case rightly and in the second case, in my view, unjustly and unfairly."

He said he would return to Hartlepool each year to hold a European forum to
promote debate on the EU and on reform in Europe, and insisted that Labour could
retain the seat in a by-election.

Of the new job he said: "What I want to do in Europe is create an efficient,
social democrat way of thinking and working in Europe that will benefit both the
British people and all European citizens."

"I am a pro-European person, but I am also very strongly pro-reform in Europe.
The Europe I want is a Europe that is pursuing economic reform and jobs as well
as protection from terrorism and other security threats, not a Europe that is
bureaucratic, over-regulated and centralised."

REWARDING TIMES:

* The basic salary for a commissioner is Euro 18,106.64 a month (Pounds 12,027),
which rises to Euro 20,210.81 a month (£13,425) if he is also made
vice-president.

* On this, he would have to pay a special rate of Euro income tax, set at 45 per
cent for high earners.

* He will also receive a housing allowance of 15 per cent of his salary (Pounds
1,804 or £2,013 per month), and an entertainment allowance of up to Euro 11,702
(£7,773) a year.

* Since he has no children, he will not be able to take advantage of the
children's allowance, or the education allowance of up to Euro 443 (£294) a
month.

* Since he is not married, he is unlikely to be able to take up the "household"
allowance of 2 per cent of salary plus Euro 149.39 (£99) a month for a dependent
spouse. The Commission was unable yesterday to say whether that allowance
applies to homosexual partners.

Matthew Parris, page 28 Letters, page 29 Peter Mandelson
www.timesonline.co.uk/britain


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 23, 2004

Why we must freeze out this dinosaur

BYLINE: COLETTE DOUGLAS HOME

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1553 words


IF you thought Jurassic Park was just a movie, if you really believed the
dinosaur was extinct, you must have been surprised to see Godfrey Bloom MEP in
the news this week.

I suppose we should be grateful it is his rarity value that allowed him to grab
the headlines. This living, breathing throwback coughed up his ancient bile at
the European Parliament, where he took a place on its Women's Rights Committee.

What was it he said? 'No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the
right place would ever employ a lady of childbearing age.' This at a time when
69 per cent of Scots mothers go out to work and more girls than boys make it to
university.

It is telling that, despite his first public act as a newly- elected member of
the fledgling UK Independence Party being designed to alienate half the
electorate, he displays complete confidence in his own ability.

He also ranted that women 'don't clean behind the fridge enough'. Then, when
moderate MEPs of both sexes expressed dismay and disapproval, he explained that
it was all a joke and it would have had his wife roaring with laughter which
doesn't explain why she has since taken the phone off the hook. He even added
that he wouldn't be in Strasbourg if she didn't say it was all right.

What a pity she agreed to let him go. This last specimen of his endangered
species belongs in a museum, not a parliament and certainly not a parliament
abroad where people could get the impression that he represents a body of
British opinion.

If that sounds like a sense of humour failure, let us remember that within
living memory men like Bloom ruled the world of work. They would lean over
interview desks with strip-you-bare eyes, wheezing: ' Why would a pretty girl
like you want a job like this?' or simply reply to job applications with 'It is
company policy not to employ women'.

Over dinner, they would squeeze your knee as they droned on about the
superiority of the male brain and this when the 11-plus had to have a lower pass
mark for boys. Challenge them and they would, like Mr Bloom, say the cost of
providing decent working conditions for women and civilised maternity leave
would ruin any small business.

Their views would have some weight if they had hired and promoted many more
women before such legislation. In fact, they employed many fewer. When men like
Mr Bloom had their way, women with career status were as rare as hen's teeth.

No, Mr Bloom is not joking. He believes every word he says he is just too timid
to stick to his views when they are challenged, preferring to skip behind the
wraparound pinny of her indoors.

If he is serious about helping small businesses, why not demand the parliament
compensate them for maternity leave? Why slant the attack against working women?

I would like to believe Godfrey Bloom is a one-day wonder. I suspect, however,
that his taste for publicity may outstrip his fear of confrontation and (since
it is the newspaper 'silly season' when serious stories can be in short supply)
he will be dubbed a 'character'.

I f that happens we will be subjected to more of the Bloom stream of
consciousness, laced with references to nancy boys, chocolate drops and Johnnie
foreigners all in fun, don't you know.

Was it an excess of heat or an ice age that eradicated the rest of the
dinosaurs? Whichever let's adjust the temperature.

FORMER schoolteacher Alan Wilson was strangled before he was dismembered.

Horrific though his killing was, there is a crumb of comfort in the knowledge
that he was already dead when he was butchered.

Baby John Gray's suffering was more prolonged. His 21-month-old body sustained
200 injuries before the blow that ruptured his liver and ended his life.

Wilson's killer was sentenced to life for murder. Baby John's mother and her
boyfriend (in whose care he received his injuries) got five years each for
cruelty. Are these the balanced scales of justice?

SUCH was the urgency of the televised appeal for money to rescue the destitute
of Dafur in Sudan that, like many thousands of others who donated Pounds
3million in 24 hours I immediately picked up the telephone to make a
contribution.

I was told, at the end of the call, that any gift of Pounds 50 or more triggered
a 14-day cooling off period, to allow the donor to change their mind. This makes
sense for people impulse-buying double-glazing, but in those 14 days won't the
starving starve?

This stipulation should be dropped or stated up front, so the well-heeled and
the generous can make multiple payments of Pounds 49.99.

Painless way to pay

RESEARCH scientist Professor Jonathan Edwards, of University College London, has
made a major breakthrough in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, a widespread
and cripplingly painful condition.

At the moment patients may need treatment several times a year. However, Pounds
50,000 will fund research to bring treatment frequency down to once every four
or five years.

The problem? He can't get the Pounds 50,000. Drug companies have no interest in
making treatments less frequent. But what about the NHS? Since Professor Edwards
stands to cut its drug bill, why doesn't it fund him? Failing that, Pounds 1 a
head from sufferers should more than do the trick.

ONE in five of us may not be the child of the man we call daddy, according to a
TV documentary shown this week. There are times when it is a boon that paternity
can now be established beyond doubt. But the case histories show there are many
more times when people would do better to accept that daddy is the man who
feeds, clothes, educates and cares for you and seek no other truth.

HOW admirable to see the courageous Leslie Ash standing up for herself.

Let's hope she is doing it in more ways than one.

KEIRA KNIGHTLEY, star of King Arthur, says what matters in film making is
talent, not fame. Such wisdom and to think she couldn't answer a question about
Live Aid, because she was only three months old when it took place.

PEOPLE who download pornographic images of children from the Internet can be
traced. Despite that threat, BT is blocking more than 20,000 attempted hits
every day.

If this figure is extrapolated to include users of other service providers, that
could mean 115,000 hits nationwide every single day.

And people wonder why parents are no longer happy to offer their children
freedom to roam.

NO CROWNING GLORY FOR ALEX

ALEX SALMOND, who left the Scottish parliament and abandoned his leadership of
the SNP for the lure of Westminster, is now suggesting that he lead the Scottish
National Party from the House of Commons.

If he regains his discarded crown, the situation will be a bad joke and if he
fails, his decision to run robs any other leader of credibility.

So, whatever the outcome, Jack McConnell wins.

Chief Scout's honour

THE new head of the Scouting movement, Peter Duncan of Blue Peter fame, appeared
in one soft porn movie nearly 30 years ago, when he was a struggling actor.

Some people appear to think this makes him the wrong sort of leader for the
Scouts.

But since it seems to say less about his character than his bank balance at the
time, it is more than outweighed by the wholesome life he has led since.

There was a play about the life of Scouts founder Robert Baden-Powell on radio
the other day. If it was accurate, Baden-Powell was an innocent admirer of
healthy masculinity.

He married late and had children, but found sharing a bed with his wife so
claustrophobic he slept alone in the garden.

I wonder what assessment would have been made of him as leader, in today's
sceptical age.

THE proposal to charge motorists for road use, according to the times and
locations of their journeys, has one major flaw. It will be done by installing
satellite tracking devices the same as some taxis have now in private cars. So
how does it differ from the tagging we currently use to contain criminals? And
how free will we feel if we add satellite tracking to ID cards and the
ubiquitous CCTV cameras?

LET'S not rewrite history for political expediency.

The Sixties were a glorious decade. It was an age of youthful altruism; a
society which celebrated serious talent; a time when people were freed from the
forelock-tugging Fifties and before they were exposed to the self-serving greed
of the get-rich-quick Eighties. A decade to celebrate.

AND so Nancy and Sven parted and were never heard of again now wouldn't that
make newspaper readers happy ever after.

PICK OF BRITAIN'S POLITICAL BRAINS

THE young are tuning into Andrew Neil's Thursday night political show, This Week
and I can quite see why.

Where else will they hear analysis without party cant? Regular guest Diane Abbot
has no hope of promotion within New Labour and her sofa-partner Michael
Portillo's political career is behind him. This leaves them both free to speak
their minds.

Portillo displays a talent for spotting when a prime ministerial move is
tactically effective irrespective of its morality. It is a strength and flaw the
premier and the former Tory minister share.

For as Portillo's past and Blair's performance this week demonstrate what scores
points within Westminster leaves the electorate cold.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              76 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 23, 2004, Friday

ROUTLEDGE: GODFREY BLOOM

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 151 words


NOW we see what complete nutters the United Kingdom Independence Party really
are. Their new MEP for Yorkshire - baldy, bowler-hatted Godfrey Bloom - says
that no small businessman with a brain would employ a woman of child-bearing
age.

That's because they might have to pay for maternity leave. Quite apart from the
insult to women, his policy would rob the nation's labour force of millions of
workers, many of them with irreplaceable skills.

The next time this latter-day Fred Flintstone goes to a hospital, or takes a
train or does anything that brings him into contact with a woman aged 16 to 50,
I suggest that they refuse to serve him.

Barmy Bloom also says: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have
dinner on the table when you get home."

His wife Katryna has my sympathy. She should leave a note next Sunday saying:
"Your dinner is at the back of the cave."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 23, 2004, Friday

Labour prepares for a squeeze

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 333 words


HARTLEPOOL and Peter Mandelson made an unlikely alliance.

The typical North East industrial town, with its docks and history of
steel-making, was not an obvious match for the smooth television producer who
turned political strategist.

Soon after his selection in late 1989 as its Labour candidate, the story went
about that he had walked into a chip shop in Hartlepool, pointed at a vat of
mushy peas and ventured: "And I'd like some guacamole, please."

Although apocryphal, and almost certainly planted by his enemies, it captured
the incongruity of the match.

But Hartlepool came to like its new MP, who raised the profile of the town and
was prepared to use his political muscle to defend its reputation -as he did
earlier this year during a tabloid row over "toxic" ships to be scrapped by a
local company.

Local people, who showed their sense of humour as well as their volatility by
voting as their Mayor H'Angus the monkey, mascot of Hartlepool Town Football
Club, will probably miss their MP.

They can, at least, look forward to more excitement ahead. His departure means
an autumn by-election in which the Liberal Democrats will try to mount a classic
bandwagon squeeze on Labour and the UK Independence Party will pitch in with a
big campaign budget.

For Labour to call a snap poll during the Commons summer recess Mr Mandelson
would have to be raised to the peerage, as the party did when Lord Robertson of
Port Ellen was appointed SecretaryGeneral of Nato in 1999. The tactic helped
defend his seat from the Scottish Nationalists. This is unlikely but would mean
a by election at the earliest on September 2.

Moving the writ when the Commons returns would mean an earliest date of
September 30, which would fall during Labour's party conference.

Labour beat off the Lib Dems to regain control of Hartlepool in the local
elections. But the Lib Dems' position as chief opposition party allows them to
portray a by-election as a two-horse race.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 23, 2004, Friday

Dirty fridges are so yesterday

BYLINE: Jane Shilling

SECTION: Features; Times2; 3

LENGTH: 780 words


Mr Bloom has failed to notice that these days, many women know both how to read
a spreadsheet and how to clean behind a fridge.

I SUPPOSE that Godfrey Bloom, the bowler-hatted United Kingdom Independence
Party MEP, must have thought that he was being interestingly controversial when,
speaking on his first day at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, he said that
he wanted to "deal with women's issues, because I just don't think they clean
behind the fridge enough".

It was a remark designed to outrage his fellow MEPs, certainly, though probably
not in the way he intended. For what it proves is not so much that he is a
show-off with a headline-catching line in muscular misogyny, but -and I'd be
much more worried about this if he were my MEP -that he obviously never reads
the newspapers.

This is a pity, because if he did, he'd find that his anxieties about
fridge-cleaning are entirely baseless. Open any quality paper these days and you
can't avoid the subject of cleaning. The features pages are obsessed with it
(which means that the readers are, too, or else the subject would quietly slink
away and die). The cleaning bug has spread from columnist to columnist like a
particularly virulent virus and frankly, cleaning behind the fridge is
nursery-slopes stuff compared with some of the forms of filth elimination on
which they offer advice.

The modern woman, Mr Bloom will be relieved to know, has a grasp of cleaning
that Mrs Beeton might envy. (Mrs B's Book of Household Management contains
instructions on every aspect of housekeeping, from a salve to promote hair
growth -olive oil, spirit of rosemary, oil of nutmeg, rub in nightly,
shiny-pated Mr Bloom might care to note -to a method for brightening gilt
picture frames: to one and a half pints of water, add flowers of sulphur, then
boil with four or five bruised onions. The smell is astounding, but the dazzle
on the gilt makes up for it.) She (the modern woman, I mean, not Mrs B) is adept
at cleaning down the backs of radiators (special brushes are available for the
purpose, as I expect you already know). Monthly, if not weekly, she purifies the
slats of her Venetian blinds. She has an advanced knowledge of the stocking and
organisation of the store cupboard and can discourse fluently on the elimination
of those revolting moths that congretate therein as soon as you open a packet of
couscous. Limescale holds no terrors for her.

She spends almost as much on the strange but indispensable household gadgets on
offer in the Lakeland catalogue as she does on her wardrobe from Prada, Dries
Van Noten and Alexander McQueen. Her grip on domestic science is as formidable
as her mastery of her particular area of professional expertise.

And here's some more good news for Mr Bloom, who added to his thoughts on
fridge-cleaning -and you could see how deeply he felt on the subject, because
his grammar went all wayward in his distress -that "the more women's rights you
have, it's actually a bar to their employment". The best thing about these
supercompetent modern women, from a Bloomian point of view, is that they quite
often conclude that the best place in which to exercise their talents is not in
businesses such as TBO Corporate Benefits Consultants, the Mayfair-based firm
where Mr Bloom is director of research, on account of the frightful old
dinosaurs you are liable to encounter in such environments.

The thing Mr B has failed to notice is that these days, many women know very
well both how to read a spreadsheet and how to clean behind a fridge, and see no
fundamental incompatibility between the work of business and homemaking and
contrive quite gracefully to move between the two roles, finding that the
intellectual demands of business combine rather satisfyingly with the
contemplative physical work of housekeeping and the intense emotional exchanges
of childcare.

These indomitable qualities are the stuff of which entrepreneurs are made, which
means that the Bloom Tendency, which recoils from employing women of
childbearing age, is less and less likely to find itself encumbered by
applications for employment from women, who have finally realised that their
skills of organisation and empathy need not be squandered on comical bald men in
funny hats, but can quite easily be put to work in more rewarding environments.

The downside is, I suppose, that eventually the businesses run by old men who
think that a woman's place is behind the fridge will realise that 50 per cent of
the workforce has better things to do than work for them. But there you are,
that's what Mr Bloom wanted, and his Yorkshire electorate voted for, isn't it?


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 23, 2004, Friday

Kilroy-Silk vows to get Britain back from EU

BYLINE: Anthony Browne in Strasbourg

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 443 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the star of the UK Independent Party, pledged to "get back
our country" in a frostily received maiden speech to the grandiose European
Parliament in Strasbourg yesterday.

Allocated just 90 seconds to speak in the chamber packed with overwhelmingly
Europhile MEPs, the former Labour MP and television presenter said: "My
constituents do not want to see the creation of a federal state called Europe.

They want to be governed by their own people in their own Parliament, and they
will during the lifetime of this Parliament, believe me."

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that he wanted to copy Margaret Thatcher's famous victory in
gaining an EU budget rebate in the 1980s. "Some 20 years ago Mrs Thatcher went
to Fontainebleau and said: 'I want our money back', and she got some of it. We
want our country back, and believe you me, we are going to get it."

He also condemned the new EU constitution, saying that it was "based on obsolete
economic and political theories of the 1950s, of a fear of war and an outdated
threat of communism".

Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, the former Portuguese Prime Minister, sat in the
chamber laughing openly at Mr Kilroy-Silk's speech. The new parliament had voted
413-251 to approve Senhor Barroso as the European Commission's next president.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's speech earned scattered applause from fellow Eurosceptics in
the Independence and Demo-cracy political group, to which the UKIP belongs.

The group contains 37 MEPs, including Eurosceptics from Denmark, Sweden, the
Netherlands and France. However, the UKIP's attempts to gain credibility and
distance itself from the far Right was dealt a blow when an MEP whom the party
suspended last week entered talks about joining forces with Jean-Marie Le Pen,
leader of the French National Front.

Ashley Mote, who was disciplined for not revealing that he was awaiting trail
for charges of housing benefit fraud, reduced the number of the UKIP MEPs from
12 to 11.

Mr Mote immediately started talks with M. Le Pen, who is also an MEP and is
trying to form a sufficiently large group of far-Right MEPs to qualify for EU
funding and staff. Mr Le Pen told The Times that he had 14 of the 18 MEPs needed
to form an officially recognised political group. Claude Moraes, a Labour MEP
and former Commissioner for Racial Equality, said: "This is a clear connection
between UKIP and the far Right."

Another UKIP MEP, Godfrey Bloom, who made headlines by saying that women did not
clean enough behind the fridge, was denounced by Alessandra Mussolini, MEP, the
granddaughter and sympathiser of Benito Mussolini, the Italian Fascist leader.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2004, Friday

CORRECTION: Ashley Mote, MEP (Independent), from whom the UKIP withdrew the whip
(report, July 23), asks us to point out that he did not immediately or at any
other time start talks with Jean-Marie Le Pen.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 22, 2004

WOMEN, WORK & MR NEANDERTHAL

BYLINE: HELEN WEATHERS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1698 words



WELL, if MEP Godfrey Bloom's comments about women are anything to go by, then
the kitchen floor in his Yorkshire home particularly behind the fridge must be
very clean indeed.

Not only that, his wife Katryna - her cleaning duties completed - must always
put a hot dinner on the table every night.

However, the day after declaring that 'no small businessman with a brain' would
give a job to a woman of childbearing age; that Yorkshire women always had a
meal ready for their men after work; and that women 'don't clean behind the
fridge enough', Mr Bloom admits that his views have landed him in very hot
water.

Not only among women MEPs - who have dismissed him as a 'Neanderthal' but at
home as well.

'Not only shall I be cleaning behind the fridge from now on, I shall probably be
wearing the fridge,' said the UK Independence Party's new representative,
charged with serving on the European Parliament's Women's Rights Committee.

'I haven't spoken to my wife yet, because she's taken the phone off the hook,
but she will not be happy. She may never speak to me again.

'My wife is a highly respected equine physiotherapist and wouldn't dream of
spending her days cleaning behind the fridge, nor would I expect her to.

'I was joking when I made that comment and I am amazed anyone took it remotely
seriously. I am not a Neathanderthal, nor a misogynist, in fact I'm the one who
does the cooking in our home. . . although I stop short at doing the washing up.

'My wife, being half Polish, has quite a temper, and if I fail in my duties to
mow the lawn or wash the car then she quite rightly gives me the beast. I
wouldn't even contemplate asking her to clean the floor.

She is happiest in the yard with her horses. SHE IS the kind of wife who is
quite content to see the back of me when I go off to Brussels, because she is so
busy with her work. She is completely apolitical and a very private person,'
said Mr Bloom, 54, who has been married to Katryna, 42, for 18 years and has no
children.

'I am not the type of husband who stands there in a flat cap with a whippet by
his side, insisting that a woman's place is in the home. Goodness, no. My wife
would soon give me short shrift if I really thought that.' That is not to say
that that Mr Bloom the recently elected MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber - takes
all his controversial comments back. The investment fund manager, who runs TBO
Corporate Benefit Consultants in York, claims he is actually championing women's
rights.

'I'm not suggesting for a second that women shouldn't work and when I questioned
the concept of maternity leave, I was not talking about big companies like Tesco
and Marks and Spencer who can afford it,' he said.

'What I'm talking about is small businesses who have three or four employees and
can't afford to lose one when they take two weeks' holiday, let alone on six
months' paid maternity leave. These companies risk going to the wall if they
have to keep replacing staff, so what do you think they do? They simply don't
employ women who are of childbearing age. They choose the woman who has children
who are grown up instead. No one talks about it, but it is already going on.

'This whole raft of legislation from Europe designed to protect women's
employment rights is actually harming them, because they are not being offered
the jobs in the first place.

'It isn't politically correct to say it, but I know because I'm a businessman
and I have had countless small businessmen speak to me since I made my comments,
saying that I am absolutely right.

'I was joking when I suggested that if a woman wants to have a baby, she should
resign and free up a job for another young lady. The real problem is that women,
who employers think might have a baby, aren't being offered the job.' Mr Bloom
insists he is an advocate of equal opportunities, citing his sponsorship for ten
years of Cambridge University's ladies' rugby team as proof. However, his
comments last year following the varsity match are perhaps rather more
revealing: 'There was a female referee for the first time,' he said proudly,
before ruining his supposed equal opportunity credentials by adding: 'She was
rather a dish - blonde and very tasty.' As for the women he has worked with or
employed over the years, Mr Bloom is rather hazy. He can't remember if any of
them had children or not.

Would he in the future employ a woman of childbearing age?

'Of course I would. Only four weeks ago I hired a new personal assistant who is
21.

Of course, I didn't ask her if she was planning to have children. Not only is
that illegal, it would have been hugely impolite as she is unmarried,' he said.

Would he still have offered her the job she had been married and the prospect of
children rather less remote?

'Ah,' says Mr Bloom, 'that is a hypothetical situation. . . but the truth is I
don't know'.

If the women MEPs' assessment is correct, probably not.

Sorry, sisters, he has a point

FORGIVE me, sisters, for what I am about to say, but Godfrey Bloom,
bowler-hatted buffoon and outrageously patronising MEP for Yorkshire and the
Humber, does have a point.

As a working woman and motherof-three, it makes my blood absolutely boil to hear
the sexist old dinosaur banging on about how 'no self-respecting businessman
with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of childbearing age'.

But as the owner of a small business consultancy, a part of me reluctantly
thinks: 'Yes, he's absolutely right.' Every time I interview a bright and
intelligent young woman, maybe in her late 20s or early 30s, the same questions
go through my head. Is she married?

Does she have a steady partner?

And, the 64,000-dollar question: is she planning to have children?

Now, I don't actually ask these questions because I believe the legislation that
protects the position of women in the workplace is absolutely right.

I have employed women in the past and will employ them in the future.They are
more reliable than men, better at multitasking and their people skills tend to
be in a different class.

But there is no avoiding the difficulties that motherhood and maternity leave
cause small businesses.

A large company can absorb the cost of maternity leave. But a small business can
go under because of the costs associated with unforeseen maternity leave.

As an employer, I can recover the maternity pay that the law requires us to pay,
but it is the other associated costs that present the real difficulties.

If my PA leaves to have a baby, I face the cost of recruiting someone else,
employing them on a short-term contract, training them and then probably a short
period of paying two people as the mother-to-be hands over to her stand-in.These
are the costs I can, to some extent, allow for.

Others are less quantifiable but potentially far more damaging. A pregnant
software consultant, for example,may have specialist knowledge and a
relationship with her customers that are impossible to replace. AND it is often
difficult to recruit someone of the same calibre when the applicants know the
job may last for only six months. Suddenly you find that your sales figures seem
to have gone on maternity leave, along with your employee.

I recently heard of a young woman who had sailed through a round of job
interviews without revealing that she was pregnant.

Congratulations, said the two men who had interviewed her, you've got the job.
'You do realise I'm five months' pregnant,' she replied, which legally she
didn't have to.The two men looked at each, briefly conferred and then,
miraculously, said it didn't matter.

Now, whether they meant that or were so bamboozled by the mountain of equal
opportunities red tape, I don't know. But I do know that if a prospective
employee let slip to me that she was pregnant, well, it would make me think
twice.

Employing women does have its problems, especially now they are entitled to come
back to work part-time, potentially presenting their employer with further
costs.

They are also more likely than men to need time off when their children are
sick, more likely to leave when their husbands get new jobs elsewhere, more
likely to have problems with childcare.

But on the plus side, show me a working mother and I'll show you the
best-organised and most highly motivated workers I know.

In short, Mr Bloom, the working woman is here to stay.

P.S. WHAT THE LAW SAYS

Maternity leave: Since April 2003, about 330,000 women have exercised their
right to take an additional six months' unpaid maternity leave on top of a
statutory 26 weeks. Mothers (and fathers) also have a new right to 13 weeks'
unpaid leave for each child. Estimated cost to business: Pounds 64 million.

Flexible Working: Employees with children under the age of five (or 18 if
disabled) can ask employers to consider requests for flexible working - a right
that applies to 1.5 million mothers. Estimated cost to business: Pounds 404
million.

Part-Time Workers: Employers now have to treat Britain's six million part-time
workers, 80 per cent of whom are women, exactly the same as fulltime employees.
Estimated cost to business: Pounds 112 million.

Equal Pay: New Labour has introduced a standard Equal Pay Questionnaire which
forces bosses to make available sensitive information that might be helpful to a
disgruntled employee. The final decision is made by an employment tribunal and
the Government has made access to such tribunals easier.

Sex Discrimination: Employers are liable financially if one employee harasses
another. In 1997, the Tories scrapped the Pounds 11,000 limit on compensation
after the European Court decided that it breached EU legislation.

As a result, several City workers have won awards of more than Pounds 1 million.

Tax Credits: Labour introduced the Working Tax Credit, which tops up the pay of
low-income employees, the majority of whom are women. But employers have had to
administer the payments system to its 1.5 million recipients, with some small
firms spending nine hours a month wading through forms.

Edward Heathcoat Amory

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ADVOCATE OF WOMEN'S RIGHTS? GODFREY BLOOM, THE UKIP MEMBER FOR
YORKSHIRE AND THE HUMBER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 22, 2004

VANESSA FELTZ

BYLINE: VANESSA FELTZ

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 65 words


IF you're feeling a bit low, at least you're not married to Godfrey Bloom, the
UKIP MEP who says: "Women don't clean behind the fridge enough." A recruit to
the Parliament's Women's Rights Committee, he adds: "No small businessman with a
brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age." Will
any woman with a brain in the right place ever vote for UKIP again?

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              82 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 22, 2004

ARE YORKSHIREMEN REALLY ALL THAT BAD?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1027 words


IF EVER a man put his foot in it, it's Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom. Addressing a
European Parliament women s rights committee, Bloom told delegates that women:
Don t clean enough behind the fridge ; that Yorkshire wives Always have dinner
on the table when you get home ;

and No self-respecting small businessmanf would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age . He claimed he was joking but in Yorkshire yesterday, many
were not so suref YVONNE ILLSLEY, 32, writer, from Saxton, North Yorkshire.

BEING married to a Yorkshire man, I'm used to over-the-top bragging about God's
Own County. But never, ever, have I heard him brag about Yorkshire because the
women here know how to clean behind their fridges and have the dinner on the
table when they arrive home. If he did, I would swiftly clip him round the ear,
throw him a bag of fish fingers and point him to the grill pan. Quite frankly, I
work all day too and do not expect to be treated like a slave when I get home.

In fact, Mr Bloom might be very shocked to discover that I am a Yorkshire wife
who rarely cooks for my husband. After one memorable occasion when I presented
him with a crisp sandwich for his evening meal, he accepted that he is better
off making food for himself.

SHIRLEY OLIVER, 68, admin assistant for a firm of solicitors, from Strensall,
North Yorkshire.

I CAN'T really believe he actually said it. I think it's absolute rubbish from a
man you would have thought would know better. I've had five children and managed
to work throughout. My job didn't suffer at all, I just made sure I put in 110
per cent. I think his comments are completely sexist and I don't find them funny
at all - and before you ask, yes, I have got a good sense of humour.

If I'm honest, I would say that some women do get it very easy now with
maternity leave, which I never got in my day, but at the end of the day a woman
should not get discriminated against because she may or may not get pregnant.

THOMAS OLIVER, 74 (husband of Shirley, above), semi-retired buyer.

I'D better be careful of what I say here, as I don't want to get in to trouble
with my wife. But seriously, I just don't think that there is any need for
comments like that. Surely there are more pressing issues to be discussed and
dealt with in the European Union?

His comments are sexist - and if I'm honest I would say yes, most Yorkshire men
are slightly sexist.

I admit I'd like to have my tea on the table whenever it's possible but that
doesn't mean I expect it all the time, or don't know how to prepare an evening
meal myself.

MARISA LUMLEY-HOLMES, 19, a dental student, from York, North Yorkshire.

I think it's completely wrong that he said what he did. It's more the opinions
of the old guard rather than what people genuinely think today. I wouldn't
really say that Yorkshire men are particularly sexist - because all men are
sexist in some way.

ALISTAIR HOLDEN, 19, a philosophy student, from Sheffield, South Yorkshire.

I DON'T consider myself as sexist at all and I don't think what he said was
right, but I wouldn't get that worked up about it. I think that the younger
generation don't see things in the same way any more. I'm sure I'd get a slap if
I went around demanding my tea when I wanted it.

As for his comments on maternity leave, I can't really believe he would say
something so stupid. Doesn't he realise that women make up about half of the
work force? " MARK BAKER, 31, a banker, from York, North Yorkshire.

I DON'T see what all the fuss is about really. I thought it was quite funny and
will probably tease the wife about it when I get home.

I wouldn't class myself as sexist - just because I don't do the washing or
ironing doesn't make me a male chauvinist. Yes, I will expect my wife to cook
for me when I get home but that's because I work and she doesn't.

That was her choice - she chose to stay at home with the kids and I go out and
earn the money.

MARK REASON, 28, a printer, from Leeds, West Yorkshire.

GOOD on the old chap to say it as it is. "Why do woman have small feet?" "So
they can get closer to the kitchen sink." No I'm only joking.

His comments were probably a bit over the top but I wouldn't get too wound up
about it. I think most Yorkshiremen are a bit sexist - I am. But I don't think
that's such a bad thing. Most girls like fussing around and doing all that
stuff, so I don't see what the problem is.

AND WHAT THE CELEBRITIES SAIDf JOAN BAKEWELL, writer and presenter.

HE'S barmy and absurd. I do know that maternity leave can present a problem for
small businesses but we have known that for a long time, haven't we? It is just
a problem that has to be solved. His idea that equality is somehow getting out
of hand is simply not borne out by the facts. It's all about lifework balance,
which is an issue that affects both men and women.

ALICE BEER, TV presenter.

THE very sad thing is that there seems to be a lot of pressure on women to
behave like this now, though thankfully not from my man. The truth is that Mr
Bloom has "done a Ratner" - which won't help his party one bit.

MIKE CRAIG, Yorkshireman and former Morecambe and Wise comedy writer.

DEEP down, Yorkshiremen are in awe of women because every single day, they put
men to shame. When I was a kid, women worked at the mill and when they came home
they would do another day's work, cooking, washing, ironing, darning and sewing
clothes. And most of them were financial wizards, knowing how to make a little
money go a long way without anyone going short. Meanwhile, what did the blokes
do? Go to the pub.

Women simply have more talents than men. If this chap Bloom seriously thinks you
shouldn't employ a woman because she's going to go off and have a baby, his
attitude is disgusting. He's just an old Yorkshire crank - but even in
Yorkshire, we don't think like that any more.

MARIELLA FROSTRUP, TV presenter.

ALL I'm prepared to say is that it is a tragic indictment of the intellectual
level of modern politicians. I haven't got the slightest intention of discussing
what I do with my fridge because of what that idiot said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              83 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 22, 2004

Godfrey's bloomer rattles village

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 736 words


It is lucky for Godfrey Bloom that Wressle village fete was held last Saturday,
otherwise he would be in the stocks and covered with custard pie this weekend.

"Buffoon" and "silly man" were among the kinder comments from women neighbours
whom the MEP memorably instructed, on his debut at Strasbourg on Tuesday, to
"spend more time cleaning behind the refrigerator".

Mr Bloom said on Tuesday: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women, who always
have dinner on the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights."

He added: "No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place
would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age."

Yesterday his constituents were aghast.

"Maybe a dustpan full of gunk would be better than custard," said one, dismayed
that the pinstriped former Territorial Army member was now one of her
representatives on the European parliament's women's rights committee.

Claire Smith, hoeing near Mr Bloom's firmly locked and empty villa, agreed.

"There are quite a few angry women around at the moment," she said, dismissing
the MEP's belated explanations that he was highlighting the effects of social
legislation - maternity and paternity leave and the like - on people struggling
to run small businesses. "My husband and I are a small business, and I can tell
you they wouldn't exist without women. All those women, working part-time,
fitting it in with their families, not taking time off when they're not so
well."

Mrs Smith, who co-runs a general jobbing firm offering gardening, repairs and
milk delivery round Wressle, brandishes evidence of the last point; her arm is
bandaged from a caustic soda burn, but she is still hoeing.

Beyond some lush hedges, a former civil servant was even more caustic about her
unwanted Euro-representative, dismissing the United Kingdom Independence party
MEP as "the worst possible person" to be in Brussels and Strasbourg on the
village's behalf.

Another woman, walking her dog by the railway crossing which provides most of
Wressle's activity, said: "It's just Victorian. I'm the breadwinner in our
household at the moment because my husband was made redundant. If we ever did
clean behind our fridge, he'd be happy to be the one to do it."

Mr Bloom looms large in the half-dozen streets which make up Wressle, a small
Yorkshire village near Selby with a large castle but no pub, shop or business
apart from farms and a bicycling coach who offers muscle-toning sessions in a
shed. The 54-year-old MEP holds a notoriously explosive bonfire night party and,
according to guests, lectures dinner parties on subjects such as the "lack of
any famous women composers".

The parish council minutes, starting to curl in the sun under a glass frame at
the village hall, carry an agenda item: "Response to letter from Mr and Mrs
Bloom." Katie Bloom, a nationally known horse physiotherapist, comes up a lot in
chat over the garden gate. All the women know and like her and none imagines she
spends her time scrubbing away behind the fridge.

She was away yesterday coping with family illness while Mr Bloom was in
Strasbourg, but some of the MEP's Ukip supporters were about. His regional
organiser, Tim Slater, made a testy appearance, demanding that reporters left
Wressle at once.

But at an office in York, where Mr Bloom chairs a consultancy on pension and
benefits planning, colleagues were more cheery. "The reason it's so good to have
Godfrey in politics is that he says publicly things which other people just
mutter at dinner parties," said Scott Robinson, Mr Bloom's managing director.

The firm's receptionist, one of six women who may now demand that the 25 men in
the business buy them a compensation lunch, giggled for almost a minute before
managing to splutter that she could not possibly comment on the issue.

Back in Wressle, another neighbour of Mr Bloom, John Cox, helpfully shifted his
large fridge and offered a torch for the Guardian to inspect a crevice
impressively free from dust and spiders.

Mr Cox, an advertising photographer whose wife Lynn runs her own dressmaking
agency, shares cleaning duties, irons shirts and also cooks a mean pasta. "But
there is something wonderful about Godfrey," he said, after 16 years of watching
the "major" stomp up and down the village streets. "Maybe only men see it. How
can I explain it?"

guardian.co.uk/gender


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 22, 2004

Women: Sidelines

BYLINE: Laura Barton

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 506 words


Godfrey Bloom, you daft ha'p'orth. You can hardly have missed the United Kingdom
Independence party MEP's nitwittishness this week, but in case you were busy in
the kitchen, his inaugural speech in Strasbourg incorporated the following
inanities: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women, who always have dinner on
the table when you get home," followed by something about women's rights
rendering those of us of child- bearing age unemployable, and then the utterly
priceless "I want to deal with women's issues because I just don't think they
clean behind the fridge enough." The thing is, Godfrey, my love, one never quite
knows what one might find down the back of the fridge: fluff, stale bits of
toast, and dusty old members of Ukip. Nothing, in short, that you would want to
touch with your bare hands. Mr Bloom, the good 200 million women of Europe and I
invite you to take this matter outside.

You may think it's all mile-high clubs and miniature bottles of Gordon's, but it
appears there are murkier forces at work in the world of air travel. Twelve
stewardesses are now suing British Airways, claiming loss of pay and promotion
after a long-haul 25 years of sex discrimination. Putting her case at an
internal company hearing, one claimant recalls how a member of the all-male
panel dismissed her with the winning line: "Sorry, dear, you are beginning to
sound like my wife at home." At this point it might have been prescient to stick
his complimentary pretzels where the sun don't shine. Meanwhile, we advise BA to
adopt the brace position; they could be experiencing some turbulence.

Has Kate Hudson's brain been replaced with fudge? "I think the greatest thing
when you're a female who is always out and about or doing something," she
informs the latest edition of InStyle magazine, "is to remember that your place
is in the home." Because it can be so easy to forget, can't it, once they take
the shackles off?

A fortnight ago we brought you news of the vibrator vending machines in the
ladies' lavatories of the Sozzled Sausage, Leamington Spa. But this week we
learn that the good vibrations are not merely confined to this one
establishment. Oh no. "One can, for five pound coins, buy the Rhythm Stix
vibrators from establishments all over Leamington," writes a male correspondent,
whom we have allowed on to these pages on the express understanding that he
behaves himself, "including Voodoo cocktail bar, the Hogshead pub, and Bubbles
champagne bar/bistro." Whatever is going on in Leamington Spa, we wonder? And
where does it register on the Richter scale?

A very sorry tale to end, I'm afraid. Please sit down. It would appear that
Mother Clanger has gone missing. Yes, the woolly matriarch of the Clanger clan
disappeared after she was exhibited at a conference back in 1972, and until she
returns home, Five's new series cannot possibly go ahead. Have you seen Mrs
Clanger? She is small, mouse-shaped, and may well have been wearing tinfoil.
Please let us know at women@guardian.co.uk.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

BOOZE, BLAZERS - AND BLOODY FOREIGNERS;
 TO EUROPHILES, BRUSSELS IS A CITY OF FINE RESTAURANTS AND ELEGANT

BYLINE: DEBORAH ROSS Pound-saver: Nigel Farage (above) outside the European
Parliament building; and (left) with fellow UKIP MEPs Robert Kilroy-Silk, Roger
Knapman and Jeffrey Titford Paul O'Driscoll; AP Nigel Farage's day in Brussels:
(clockwise from top left) in UKIP's offices; talking to a Polish MEP; making a
point at a meeting of independent MEPs; and in the chamber Paul O'Driscoll

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES

LENGTH: 2622 words


I am in a restaurant in Brussels. It's quite late, I think. I am with the United
Kingdom Independence Party. Well, two of their European Parliament members, that
is: Nigel Farage, MEP for the South East, a founder member and the one generally
considered to be the driving force behind the party; and Graham Booth, MEP for
the South West and a Torquay hotelier.

Nigel and I have already put back a few G&Ts at our hotel, and now we're getting
through a bottle of white and a bottle of red. I can't quite remember what we
talked about, although Graham's mother-in-law came into it. She was still
chambermaiding at 88 - "So embarrassing, but she wouldn't stop" - and had
recently died on the job. "That's the way she would have wanted to go," says
Nigel consolingly. We get on to Jonathan Aitken, who may or may not be standing
for UKIP at the next general election. "The more I see of him the more I like
him," says Nigel. "And what he did wasn't that bad," says Graham. No, I say. He
only perjured himself and tried to land his family in it. "Yes, there is that,"
accepts Nigel.

I put it to them that I can't understand why they get quite so worked up about
certain issues, like the metric one. I mean, in the scale (ho, ho) of things, is
it really something to fret about? There's a stunned silence. Then it's Graham,
and: "What bra size are you?" I beg your pardon? "WHAT BRA SIZE ARE YOU?" Oh,
shout it from the rooftops, why don't you, Graham? "WELL?" It's 34A, alas, I
whisper meekly. "See? See?" he says: "The old measurement." Look, neither
measurement is going to give me a less pitiful bust, so who cares? "It's the
element of compulsion," says Nigel: "We don't want them to set the bloody
rules." We order Armagnacs all round, then Nigel and I go back to our hotel.
"Another drink?" he suggests. I don't think so, I say. "Oh, come on." Water,
then. "Oh, come on." A glass of red, then. We sit up till 1am, maybe 2am. Nigel
drinks a lot of beers. I don't drink my drink. I'm feeling queasy enough as it
is. "Can I drink it?" Nigel calls after me as I stumble off to bed. Go for it,
Nige, I slur. I have a mightily drunken dream about implants and huge knockers,
which rather suit me. I would now say: spend any substantial amount of time with
UKIP, and things will almost certainly get pretty surreal.

I'D FIRST talked to Nigel Farage the previous week, on the telephone. "I've just
been in Brussels," he said. How nice, I said, thinking: "More restaurants than
any other European city, and moules-frites and chocolates." No, not nice at all,
he said. "It's a dump. It's just about the most hideous place on earth, I should
think." Perhaps, I suggested, you could take me with you on your next trip?
Apart from anything else (moules-frites, chocolates) I would like to see how a
party totally committed to withdrawal from the European Union and not much else
(apart from blocking virtually all immigration) operates in the very belly of
the beast. "Love to, love to," he exclaimed.

I was initially astonished by his enthusiasm. UKIP may now be the fourth-
largest party in the country, with 12 MEPs, but the British press has not
exactly been kind to them - "a rackety collection of con men, perjurers,
convicted criminals and semi-racists" (The Spectator). The press has hardly been
kind to Nigel, either, always quoting Dr Richard North, a former UKIP research
director: "I was not prepared to pour him Nigel into a taxi when he was so blind
drunk that he could no longer stand, or cover for him when he failed to turn up
for morning appointments when he had been on the tiles all night." Ouch!

Nigel, though, laughs happily, adding: "He now works for the Conservative Party,
so what do you expect?" The other thing you quickly learn about UKIP MEPs is
that if they were any thicker-skinned, they'd be rhinos. "We don't care what you
write so long as you write about us," Graham says later. And if one particular
member were more orange-skinned... non, ce n'est pas possible. Moules-frites,
s'il vous plait. (Just practising.)

So, we meet early one morning on the Eurostar. I get on at Waterloo. Nigel joins
at Ashford, Kent. He lives in Kent with his second wife, a German ("although you
wouldn't know it from the way she speaks English") and their young daughter. I
phone on the mobile to ask what carriage he's in and whether there are any spare
seats nearby. "Of course," he says. "No one sane goes to Brussels."

I join him. He is 40 and looks like the schoolboy Tory activist he once was;
that is, he probably had a centre parting and a suit and a crush on Keith Joseph
- which, in fact, he did. "He came to my school Dulwich College and talked about
lame-duck industries and government subsidies and why the free market was better
and I thought, Yup.'"

Nigel, the son of a stockbroker, used to be a commodities broker on the metal
exchange in the City of London: "Bloody good fun, particularly in the Eighties,
although I can't remember most of it, ha!" Most of UKIP seem to be cheesed-off
former Tories. It was the overthrow of Thatcher, says Nigel, then the Exchange
Rate Mechanism and Maastricht. "I'll never forget drinking in Corney & Barrow in
1990 and seeing a newsflash on screen - Britain joins ERM' - and just thinking,
This is loony.'"

He is, I note, wearing a silver pounds -sign pinned to his suit lapel. Well, you
can't miss it, really. It is covered in hallmarks. "That's something else they
want to destroy," he says, "hallmarks." Come now, I say, there are many things
we can learn from Europe, surely. Naps after lunch, for one. I'd vote for those.
He says his argument is simply this: "Do you think it's best that we are
governed by people that we vote for in Westminster, or that we merge together
with the other countries of Europe and we are governed from Brussels?" No chance
of naps after lunch, then? "Ha! No!"

I don't think Nigel is a xenophobe as such. He loves Italy, for example,
although I should add that he prefers America: "Everyone is just so positive
there." I just think he, and perhaps his fellow UKIP-ers, have this
imperialistic view of Britain as a still great and powerful nation which should
be telling everyone else what to do, and anything else is a terrible insult. It
may almost be a kind of nostalgic sentimentality. We don't want them to set the
bloody rules. I think it may be the same with the anti-immigration business.
This is our country. Everyone Else Go Home.

But Nigel, if you took immigrant workers out of the NHS, say, it would collapse.
"That's because we have become over-reliant on them. I believe in our
abilities," he says. One of Nigel's hobbies, by the way, is visiting the
battlefields of the First World War. And, no, UKIP are not "the BNP in blazers".
That's nonsense, says Nigel. "If anything, we have taken the sting out of the
BNP."

You can't, however, simply dismiss UKIP outright. Or maybe you can. We shall
see. Whatever, they have certainly moved from the amateurish Eurosceptic margins
to rattling the cages of the political Establishment. They spent pounds 2m on
their recent European election campaign, including pounds 100,000 on hiring the
services of Max Clifford, the publicist, who basically told them to go out and
get big names. So they did. The most notable were, of course, Joan Collins and
Robert Kilroy-Silk. "The polls were showing us at 10 to 11 per cent before
Kilroy. A week after he came on board, we were showing 18 per cent. People love
him. Love him." Other UKIP "names" include Rusty Lee, Neil Hamilton, Geoffrey
Boycott, Patrick Moore and Roy Wood from Wizzard, "who wants to stand for us". I
think they have yet to learn that sometimes no names are better than some names.
Still, if Roy campaigns for Christmas every day, I'm with him all the way. Count
me in, Nige! "I will!" he replies.

We arrive in Brussels and take a taxi to the parliament building. "Ah, the
cradle of democracy," he says as we enter. "Horrible, horrible, horrible place."
It does appear rather soulless; like an airport, only without Tie Rack or
planes. We bump into a Tory MEP. His conversation with Nigel goes like this:

Tory MEP: "Where is the perma-tanned one?" Nigel, chucklingly: "Guess?"

Tory MEP: "On holiday? In Spain?"

Nigel, still chucklingly: "Yup."

Tory MEP: "So that's what we are paying him for, are we?"

Nigel, with some hilarity: "He is coming to Strasbourg next week. He says he can
hardly wait!"

Tory MEP: "Well, you've probably put Blair back into Number Ten. Thanks very
much!" And he marches off. Shirtily.

Yikes, I say. That was scary. Nigel laughs, then says he doesn't mind being
hated. "I've been booed by 500 people. We're like atheists at an evangelical
meeting." And Strasbourg! What a joke! The voting procedure is such, he says,
that "you could get 26 chimps to do the job". He wishes they would: "Then we
could all piss off and play golf." Nigel, can you see the irony of being part of
what you so desperately wish to disengage from? "Of course," he says, "and it
appeals to my sense of humour."

Nigel does seem to be enjoying himself. He might, even, never have had such fun,
not even in the City in the Eighties. But at whose expense? His, he would say.
He used to earn three times as much as a commodities broker, and he has his
three children (two from a previous marriage) at private schools. "We're on hard
times. I do find the money aspect a bit difficult. I drive a 10-year-old Volvo."
Still, no matter. It can't match the excitement of "building a new political
party in Britain. Europe is the political issue of the age." He brightens up
considerably. I doubt Nigel is ever particularly glum for long. Too much belief
in himself. I might even describe him as racked with self-certainty, in that
Kilroy- ish way.

We take the lift up to the seventh floor, to his office. His office is
chillingly bare. Not a book, a paper, a picture, no family photographs, nor ones
of Roy or Rusty. Nothing. I note, too, that the desk lamp not only still has its
label hanging off it, but that V C it has no bulb. I don't think he's had many
late nights here poring over documents. I ask why it's so bare, especially as
it's his second term as an MEP. "I binned everything in April because I didn't
know I was coming back," he says. I'm not so sure about that. How would he know
he wouldn't be coming back? Perhaps it has something to do with not actually
being here very much. In the last parliament, when it came to attendance, he was
554th out of 665. And he asked just one parliamentary question. He says he had a
lot of problems to sort out back home. "The party was in terrible turmoil."

As it was. Alan Sked, the London School of Economics lecturer who founded the
party in 1993 and was the first leader, left after some vicious infighting,
while his successor, Michael Holmes, was dumped and then had a stroke. "I tried
to phone him the other day," says Graham later, "but his wife said never to call
again. It upsets him so." According to Sked, Nigel would refer to blacks as
"niggers" and "nig-nogs". Rubbish, says Nigel, who refers to Sked as "demented".
I'm sure there are serious and intelligent debates to be had about Europe and
immigration. I'm just not convinced that UKIP is going to be the place for them.

Anyway, concludes Nigel: "I couldn't be here because I was travelling the UK to
shore up the party." We are joined by Jeffrey Titford, fellow UKIP MEP and the
retired funeral director known as the Frinton Undertaker. "We both had 75
speaking engagements in a year," confirms Jeffrey. "But we intend to do more
here from now on," adds Nigel. But what, exactly? Why are we paying you pounds
65,000 a year plus generous expenses? You can't really change anything, can you?
No, agrees Nigel, they can't. "But we can report back from the inside. When I
speak to a Rotary club, I do know what I'm talking about. There is a precedent
for this. Parnell in Westminster. And we'll try to stop, block and obstruct in
committees."

But surely that only leads to more delays, more bureaucracy, more expense?
"Thousands of British businesses will cheer us," says Nigel. What if a measure
is advantageous to Britain? None of them ever is, they say, because they are
"integrationist". Jeffrey then says something about some kind of protest he
mounted, which involved standing outside the parliament building with a gag over
his mouth. "And the photograph made Have I Got News for You!" Nigel confirms
that it did by saying: "It did! It did!" Surreal, like I said. Plus, I think if
you asked them what they had thus far achieved, appearing on Have I Got News for
You might count for something, if not quite a lot. The UKIP was once described
as "8,000 members and 9,000 egos".

Nigel and Jeffrey go off for meeting after meeting: something about their
political grouping for next year, an anti-constitution alliance based on a
ragbag of dissenters. I grab a quick lunch with Nigel at one of the bars.
Jeffrey goes to the proper restaurant on the 12th floor but comes back
complaining that there isn't any food left. "It's the Eastern Europeans," says
Nigel. "They can't get enough on their plates."

Surely, I say, the EU has to be good for the Eastern Europeans. Nigel is utterly
aghast. "The Poles lived under Nazism and then Communism. Finally they get
independent, and then they give it all away!" He is, he confirms, entirely
opposed to any immigration from Eastern Europe. "It's crazy... it's going to do
a lot of damage to the Baltic States and Poland as well. All their bright
professional people will come over here because they can earn 12 times as much."

If that's the case, I say, then that's good for us, isn't it? "We are going to
get some very good people, but we'll get both ends of it, won't we? We'll get a
lot of just economic migrants who think they will get a better chance here. I
think the numbers are going to be enormous over the next few years." I say I
haven't noticed a deluge thus far, haven't found that I can't get down the shops
for Roma Gypsies. He changes the subject and says: "Do you know that there are
now 400 Jean Monnet professors, paid for by the EU, working in the UK teaching
economics and history from a European point of view?" Is that a bad thing? "Is
that a bad thing?" he gasps. "It took Stalin years to take over the
universities!"

At about 7pm we leave the building. Nigel and I share a cab to our hotel. We go
down a beautiful old boulevard. But this is beautiful, Nigel, I say. "Oh, some
parts of Brussels are all right," he agrees, "but they have a terrible problem
with the rubbish." At the hotel we agree to meet at the bar in an hour, "or
earlier if you like. I'll be down in 10 minutes." I go down in an hour - a girl
needs some time to herself in these situations - by which time he's well stuck
into his G&Ts. Then it's off to the restaurant to meet Graham, who is rather
jolly when he's not too busy getting upset about his mother-in-law. He has us in
stitches about some committee that had to decide on how high a rocking horse
should be for a three-year-old. UKIP might, in some ways, be a better laugh than
most parties, but I suspect that, ultimately, they will be proved considerably
less relevant. I'm not even sure quite how seriously they take themselves.

Then it's back to the hotel with Nige, who I think tells me all about the run-in
he had with testicular cancer in his twenties and how he had to have a ball
lopped off. (Thank God I don't dream about that.) Before I stumble up to bed, we
agree to meet for breakfast at 8am. Amazingly, I manage to get down on time. I
wait for Nigel. And wait and wait and wait. He doesn't turn up.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              86 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

FRIDGE MP FROZEN OUT BY HIS WIFE

BYLINE: VANESSA ALLEN

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 157 words

HIGHLIGHT: IN TROUBLE: Bloom


A EURO MP who caused outrage by saying women should clean behind the fridge got
a no vote yesterday - from his wife.

Godfrey Bloom, 54, of the UK Independence Party, said his comments had led fiery
Katryna to disconnect her phone.

The financier was condemned as a Neanderthal for saying: "I want to deal with
women's issues because I just don't think they clean behind the fridge enough."

He added: "No small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of child-bearing age."

A chastened Mr Bloom said: "Not only shall I be cleaning behind the fridge from
now on, I'll probably be wearing the fridge. She's taken the phone off the hook
and may never speak to me again."

The MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber added: "Being part Polish, she has a
temper. If I fail in my duties to mow the lawn or wash the car she rightly gives
me the beast. I wouldn't contemplate asking her to clean the floor."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              87 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

CARMEN REID: BAD CARMA

BYLINE: CARMEN REID

SECTION: Scots Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 95 words


GLOBAL warming will heat up Perthshire and Tayside so much in future decades,
Mediterranean fruit will grow there. Yes, when the ice caps have melted. Why is
this being presented as a good thing?

POSTMAN Pat has been reinvented. There's a new Asian family with the puzzling
surname of Bains, Julian wants to be a popstar and Pat now likes snowboarding.
Oh dear.GODFREY Bloom, UK Independence Party, MEP, on his appointment to the
committee for women's rights: "I want to deal with women's issues, because I
don't think they clean behind the fridge enough."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              88 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 22, 2004

BLOOMING IDIOT

BYLINE: Charles Yates

LENGTH: 451 words


MEP Godfrey Bloom caused outrage by saying no boss with a brain should employ
women of child-bearing age. But does he have a point?.

BUNGLING Euro MP Godfrey Bloom caused a major stink by saying women "don't clean
behind the fridge enough."

Claiming that "Yorkshire women always have dinner on the table when you get
home", didn't help his cause either.

The 54-year-old UK Independence Party member from Yorkshire provoked outrage on
his first day in Strasbourg, where he was given a seat on the women's rights
committee.

And he continued to dig himself a deeper hole, saying: "No self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age.

"That isn't politically correct, is it? But it's a fact of life.

"I know, because I am a businessman."

Unsurprisingly. the recently-elected investment fund manager's ill-advised
comments brought huge condemnation.

And his serious point - that excessive EU legislation could actually damage jobs
-was lost in the inevitable backfire.

Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt said: "These ridiculous comments show just how
out of touch the UKIP are with modern Britain.

Insulting

"Women, who make up over half the workforce and run around a third of all small
firms, will find these remarks deeply insulting."

And president of the Party of European Socialists, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, said Mr
Bloom's remarks were "outrageous" and "absolutely unacceptable".

He added: "This is about equal rights.

"You cannot have the right to fire people because they are pregnant. It is not
acceptable that employers should callously take account of whether women might
get pregnant.

"We will be following up Mr Bloom's remarks."

Describing UKIP attitudes as "Neanderthal", Labour Euro MP Glenys Kinnock added:
"It is terrifying that Mr Bloom can fly in the face of what we have worked and
fought for -to establish equal opportunities and rights for women."

Mr Bloom is one of 11 UKIP MEPs in the new European Parliament. He lives in York
with his wife Katrina, a horse physiotherapist.

He said his initial comments had been tongue-in-cheek and his point had been
missed.

"I am astonished by the reaction. These things were said for fun -and Strasbourg
is not a great place for humour.

"The serious point I was trying to make is that an awful lot of regulations work
against women when they should work FOR women."

Mrs Bloom did not comment.

TELL US WHAT YOU THINK

DO you think the UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom has got a point -or is he talking
nonsense? Send your views to The Sun, 1 Virginia Street, London E98 1SL or you
can e-mail us at letters@the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              89 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 22, 2004

ARRRGH!

BYLINE: Sharon Hendry, Sun Woman Editor

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 310 words


MARGARET THATCHER once said: "In politics, if you want anything said, ask a man.

If you want anything done, ask a woman."

Godfrey Bloom (yes, that is his real name) seems to prove her point nicely.

He is incredibly talented at shouting his mouth off -and very little else.

In fact he appears to have achieved little in his political career other than
being elected as a "U-TWIT" MEP.

His remarks about Yorkshire women always having dinner on the table and women
not cleaning behind their fridges are almost pitiful in their stupidity.

To debate them is to give them a dignity they don't deserve.

But his ramblings on maternity leave are another matter.

Bloom says no "small businessman with a brain" would employ a woman of
childbearing age.

Wisdom

And his pearls of wisdom continue with the idea that: "If you have a baby, you
hand in your resignation and free up a job for another young lady."

What a gem of a policy that is.

Firstly, if Mr Bloom dared to take a peek at the 21st century from under his
bowler hat, he would know that many small businessmen are women.

And with women making up almost half the UK workforce, equality is an economic
necessity.

Meanwhile perhaps Bloom would like to muse further on where Britain's future
workforce will come from if women are not taking time off to create it.

Presumably, being a member of UKIP, he is in total agreement with more
immigrants doing the jobs of British women instead?

Not only are his ramblings wholly stupid, they are dangerous and damaging.

I just pity his poor wife. Katrina Bloom is described as a "leading equine
physiotherapist" and expert side-saddle rider.

No doubt she also finds time to clean behind the fridge. Perhaps in a spare
moment she could also help her husband write the resignation letter he MUST give
his party.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              90 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 22, 2004

PULL A PENSION AT 40

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: THE EU'S WASTED BILLIONS

LENGTH: 177 words


HORDES of EU staff in their 30s and 40s claim they can no longer work due to
stress -and are securing lifetime pensions worth 70 per cent of their final
salaries.

Disability claims from the 34,000-strong workforce cost taxpayers Pounds
52million a year.

Around half are from relatively young employees who say stress has made them too
sick to continue. UKIP MEP Jeffrey Titford said: "As auditors rightly point out,
we are not talking about coalminers or deep sea fishermen.

"It is ridiculous for so many people to be retiring on the grounds of ill
health.

"It is a huge insult to genuine claimants for real disabilities who are outside
the Brussels system and cannot get these golden handshakes." A spectre of fear
and retribution hangs over those who dare to challenge the system.

Spaniard Marta Andreasen, chief accountant at the European Commission, faces
disciplinary action after protesting about shoddy book-keeping which lost track
of millions.

When contacted by The Sun in Barcelona, she said: "Sorry, I cannot talk to you."


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              91 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

UKIP recruits allies to wreck legislation

BYLINE: Anthony Browne

SECTION: Overseas news; 17

LENGTH: 274 words


THE UK Independence Party is drawing up a barrage of amendments to wreck EU
legislation after it found sufficient allies to be able to propose changes.

The UKIP recruited the four MEPs of Italy's hard-Right Northern League to its
Eurosceptic Independents and Democracies (ID) political group after hours of
talks yesterday. This takes the group to the 37 MEPs needed for it to be able to
table amendments.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UKIP in the European Parliament, said: "It's getting
more exciting -with 37 MEPs you are a viable group with the right to block and
delay legislation and make amendments.

"We'll propose a lot of amendments to block and abolish EU directives -we'll
start with the reinsurance directive. The British insurance industry say they
are overburdened with directives already." The alliance with the Northern League
will give ammunition to the UKIP's enemies who wish to portray the British party
as on the far Right.

But Mr Farage said that the UKIP's alliance was intended to undermine the
anti-immigrant National Front led by Jean-Marie Le Pen, who had been trying to
entice the Northern League into an alliance that would have meant that he could
have set up an official far-Right group in the European Parliament.

"We did everything we could to blow a hole in Le Pen's plan. We've stopped Le
Pen forming a political group and getting a pan-European voice," Mr Farage said.

MEPs from the Northern League will have to sign a charter to oppose anti
Semitism and racism. The other members of the ID group are from various
political groups in Sweden, Denmark, Poland and the Netherlands.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

Women's work?

BYLINE: Godfrey Bloom

SECTION: Features; Times2; 9

LENGTH: 505 words


Women belong in the kitchen, preferably cleaning behind the fridge, says Godfrey
Bloom of UKIP. So who does the cleaning in some well-known kitchens?

MICHAEL WINNER. Film director

I NEVER clean my fridge and I never have done -I've got women to do that for me.

I do a bit of dusting and polishing and always keep a bottle of Antiquax around.

But never the fridge: too scientific. Everyone knows women can leave the kitchen
occasionally. They should get permission, of course.

BORIS JOHNSON. Tory MP

FRIDGES aren't really my speciality, although it has been know for me to clean
one. Normally I'm only called on when there's a need to attack the ice in the
freezer with a sledgehammer, which succeeds in removing the ice but also results
in lots of busted doors and compartments. I'll tell you what you really need to
be wary of when it comes to fridges though: that thing in the bottom, the
crisper or whatever, where you put fruit and veg and so on. It shouldn't be
called the crisper; it should be called the rotter. I've had some indescribable
things emerge from my crisper, Tutankhamun-like.

FAY WELDON. Author

I ALWAYS have a full fridge -I'm quite neurotic about it. I fill it up with
healthy food but there never seems to be anything to eat. I had a
one-meal-at-a-time mother and there was never a stock of food. But that was the
way then, for one reason or another: war, rationing, low incomes. I clean behind
the fridge every now and then. I always think it is the most awful thing when
you come to move house and you pull out the fridge or the cooker to reveal a
shaming accumulation of grime.

JOAN BAKEWELL. Broadcaster

I'VE not seen the back of my fridge for about 20 years -it's all built in to the
rest of the kitchen.

JILLY COOPER. Author

MY parents came from Yorkshire and they used to change the water in their fridge
every week! It's mysterious how all that grime gathers behind the fridge. I've
seen so much fluff there, you could stuff a cushion with it!

Fortunately I don't have to clean anything. I have some ace cleaners who come in
and do it for me. I do think there are more important places to clean than
behind the fridge.

BERNARD MANNING. Comedian

THERE was more trust and happiness in the 1930s, I think, because women were at
home. I would come home from school to a house shining like a new pin, my mother
standing there in her pinny, and always something good on the table Lancashire
hotpot or shoulder of lamb. Nowadays they have to go out to work to keep two
cars on the road, have foreign holidays and buy computer games for the kids.

I don't like to see fellas pushing the trolley in the supermarket. I think men
should be men and women should have nice hair and nails and be friendly all the
time.

Yes, I've moved a fridge before, so that my mother could clean behind it. The
men would always help with the heavy jobs, you never saw her carrying a case or
turning a mattress. But as regards egg on toast -get on with it, woman!


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 21, 2004

Fury as UKIP's man on women's rights says: No businessman with a brain would
employ a lady of childbearing age

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 551 words


ONE of the UK Independence Party's MEPs caused outrage last night after he
declared that no 'small businessman with a brain' would give a job to a woman of
childbearing age.

Godfrey Bloom slammed the concept of paid maternity leave, said women did not do
enough cleaning and boasted that Yorkshire women always had the dinner ready for
when their husbands got home.

Astonishingly, his outburst came just hours after the party had chosen him to
serve on the European Parliament's Women's Rights Committee.

The MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber said he wanted to deal with women's rights
because 'I just don't think they clean

behind the fridge enough'.

He went on: 'I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have dinner on
the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights.'

Outlining his preferred maternity policy, he said: 'If you want to have a baby,
you hand in your resignation and free up a job for another young lady.'

He warned the cost of EU directives on paid maternity leave was deterring small
employers from hiring young women.

'The more women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to their employment,' he
said.

'No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of childbearing age.' The investment fund manager, who runs TBO
Corporate Benefit Consultants in York, added: 'That isn't politically correct,
is it? But it's a fact of life. I know, because I am a businessman.' Welsh
Labour MEP Glenys Kinnock led the condemnation against the comments.

'We know UKIP are Neanderthal in their attitudes, but it is absolutely
terrifying that Mr Bloom can fly in the face of what we have worked and fought
for, to establish equal opportunities and rights for women,' she said.

Chris Davies, Liberal Democrat leader in the Parliament, said: 'It looks like it
is time for a ride back to the 1950s on the UKIP time machine, to the golden age
of women's rights and opportunities.' And Mary Honeyball, a Labour MEP and
member of

the Women's Rights Committee, commented: 'If that is what Mr Bloom thinks in his
own business dealings he is entirely wrong and may be liable to investigation.

'He could be operating outside the law and if this is the case I would urge any
woman who tried and failed to gain employment in his business to seek expert
advice and consider taking him to an industrial tribunal.' A TUC spokesman said
women might not have voted for UKIP if they had been aware of the policy and he
challenged its MEPs to say whether they agreed with it.

Mr Bloom's comments ended an eventful day for the party yesterday.

First it emerged that one of its 12 representatives the South-East region's
Ashley Mote had been suspended from the party amid allegations of housing
benefit fraud.

Then Robert Kilroy-Silk and ten of his colleagues symbolically boycotted the
election of the Parliament's new president in protest that all three of the
candidates were committed 'federalists'. Mr Kilroy-Silk said: 'Everything we do
here and in Brussels, every decision we take will be driven by one single
criterion, to help to develop our project the project of governing Britain from
Westminster again.' Spanish socialist Josep Borrell, 57, was elected as the new
president.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GODFREY BLOOM: DINNER TABLE VIEWS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              94 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 21, 2004

EU BIG MOUTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 56 words


NEW UKIP Euro MP Godfrey Bloom yesterday claimed he was voted in "to represent
Yorkshire women who always have dinner on the table when you get home".

Given a seat on the Women's Rights Committee, he said: "I don't think women
clean behind the fridge enough".

Labour MEP Glenys Kinnock fumed: "We know UKIP are Neanderthal."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              95 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

The plain talker in a bowler hat

BYLINE: By Caroline Davies

SECTION: News Pg. 03

LENGTH: 246 words

IN his pinstripe suit and trademark bowler hat, Godfrey Bloom relishes
attention. And during his 10 years with UKIP, he has discovered that the more
controversial the comment, the more column inches he gets.

The 54-year-old's image is that of a plain-talking Yorkshireman but he is really
a Londoner who migrated north in later life.

Having won a European seat at his third attempt, he maintains he will not stand
for election again. "That means I'm not in anybody's pocket. I don't give a
damn," he said in a recent interview.

As director of research at TBO Corporate Benefits Consultants - a Mayfair-based
firm - he works in York and supports country pursuits. The chief claim to fame
of his wife Katie, a physiotherapist, is her ability to ride to the hunt
side-saddle. While he may claim to admire the stay-at-home Yorkshire wife, he is
not immune to the allure of the less traditional woman. As a sponsor of the
Cambridge University women's rugby team he said last year of the players:
"They're a lot more badly behaved than the men. These ladies are wicked.

"One of the girls had a pump-action shotgun full of beer - there was a lot of
squirting . . . and no shortage of throwing up afterwards."

Bloom also enjoys visiting the local pubs and admits that he's "fallen out of
more taxi-cabs drunk than you could shake a stick at".

So why the bowler hat? "I always wear one when I am in town," he said recently,
"as did my father and his father before him."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              96 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

'No small businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of child-bearing
age' KIP's spokesman for women says they should get back in the kitchen

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Strasbourg

SECTION: News Pg. 03

LENGTH: 656 words

THE UK Independence Party faced a full-blown row on its first day of real
business at the European Parliament yesterday after one of its MEPs urged women
to return to the kitchen and clean up their dirty fridges.

Godfrey Bloom, UKIP's newly-elected member for Yorkshire and the Humber, said he
would use his seat on the women's rights committee to "promote men's rights".

"No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of child-bearing age," he said.

"That isn't politically correct, is it, but it's a fact of life. The more
women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to their employment."

He added flippantly that women needed to do a better job taking care of the
home. "I quite simply feel that they don't clean behind the fridge. I represent
Yorkshire women who always have dinner on the table when you get home," he said.

The Labour MEP Glenys Kinnock called UKIP a "Neanderthal" party that harked back
to an earlier age, saying it was "absolutely terrifying" that Mr Bloom could
want to roll back the gains in rights for women.

UKIP's 11-strong, all-male group - down from 12 after the loss of Ashley Mote,
who is facing charges of benefit fraud - scrambled to limit the damage, playing
down Mr Bloom's remarks as a clumsy attempt to highlight the suffocating burden
of EU red tape and the cost of maternity leave for very small firms.

Nigel Farage, MEP, the group's leader in Strasbourg, said: "We believe that 60
per cent of our voters are women, and we don't want to see them discriminated
against in the workplace in any way, but some of this EU legislation is
counter-productive."

UKIP found an unlikely defender in Gillian Evans, a Plaid Cymru MEP and
vice-chairman of the women's committee, who took a forgiving tone towards her
new colleague.

"I don't think his comments were meant to be taken seriously and he has a point
that it's often impossible for companies with less than 10 employees to carry
out EU legislation," she said.

The actress Maureen Lipman, who was born in Hull, said she was not insulted by
Mr Bloom's comments.

"Yorkshire women are like women everywhere - they will do what their husbands
won't do," she said. "It seems like he was only trying to be funny."

The row came on a turbulent day as UKIP's team tore up their ballot sheets to
protest at the election of a Spanish "federalist" as the president of the
European Parliament.

Josep Borrell defeated the Polish Solidarity hero and university professor
Bronislaw Geremek.

Mr Borrell, known in Spain as an ultra-Leftist, had to stand down as prospective
leader of the Spanish socialists over a fraud scandal in 1999.

He pledged to do "everything in his power" to ensure the ratification of the new
European constitution, which could unravel if rejected by the people in any one
of a growing number of states opting for referendums over the next 18 months.

Mr Farage said UKIP would work to slow the juggernaut of EU rules now
responsible for half of all new laws coming into force in Britain.

"We will do everything we can to obstruct and delay legislation. That is a firm
undertaking and every time we stop legislation there will be British businessmen
cheering from the rooftops," he said.

The increasingly muscular party, which set off political tremors last month by
taking 16 per cent of the vote, has allied with 10 ultra-Catholics from the
Polish League of Families, plus a smattering of Left-leaning Scandinavians,
Dutch Lutherans, French "souverainistes", and lone dissidents from Greece,
Ireland and the Czech Republic.

UKIP has refused to deal with any of the EU's far-Right nationalist parties,
such as the French Front National, Belgium's Vlaams Blok, or the Danish People's
Party.

The 33-strong group gives UKIP access to about 16 full-time staff, plus
assistants for each MEP, and a fat budget that should allow them to run a
heavyweight party machine.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              97 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

Third place was enough for Tories

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 238 words

And we all thought that the Tories did badly by coming third in last week's
Leicester and Birmingham by-elections.

A cheery letter to Tory MPs from Conservative Chief Whip David Maclean claims
that the party did well to avoid coming fourth in the contests.

Maclean's note - leaked to Spy - was written last Friday, just hours after the
dismal Tory results in both Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill had been
announced.

Referring to the delivering, canvassing and other campaigning put in by the
legions of MPs bussed up to the Midands, Maclean claims: "If we had not done it,
then we would have been humiliated last night and pushed into a poor fourth
place."

A bizarre comment, this, as the UK Independence Party didn't field candidates,
leaving George Galloway's loony tunes Respect Coalition to fill the fourth spot
both times.

"So this is what we've come to," says one Conservative backbencher. "If we're
meant to be happy about coming third in seats we once held, what does that say
about how we're going to do in the election next year?"

And it should also be noted that Maclean's tune has changed significantly since
another letter he sent to the same MPs on the eve of the by-elections.

Imploring them to spend election day in one of the seats, Maclean stated just
last Tuesday: "In Birmingham, it is a two-horse race between us and Labour, and,
in Leicester, the Lib Dem bandwagon has not taken off."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              98 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 21, 2004

HOW UKIP MP ADDRESSED A MEETING ON EQUALITY; WOMEN'S RIGHTS? THEY SHOULD GET THE
DINNER ON THE TABLE AND CLEAN BEHIND THE FRIDGE. . .

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland and Mark Blacklock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 486 words


A NEW Euro MP caused outrage yesterday when he said women "don't clean behind
the fridge enough".

Godfrey Bloom, of the UK Independence Party, took a place on the European
Parliament's women's rights committee yesterday - his first day in Strasbourg -
and told journalists: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have
dinner on the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights."

Later Mr Bloom, 54, said on television: "The more women's rights you have, it's
actually a bar to their employment.

"No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of childbearing age. I know because I am a businessman."

Ukip last night stood by Mr Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, and said he
had been trying to draw attention to the plight of small companies swamped by EU
regulations.

Mr Bloom, one of 11 Ukip MEPs, is an investment fund manager with TBO Corporate
Benefit Consultants. His wife Katie is a horse physiotherapist.

Labour MEP Mary Honeyball, a member of the women's rights committee, said: "If
that is what Mr Bloom thinks in his own business dealings he is entirely wrong
and may be liable to investigation.

"He could be operating outside the law and if this is the case I would urge any
woman who tried and failed to gain employment in his business to seek expert
advice and consider taking him to an industrial tribunal."

Labour Euro MP Glenys Kinnock said: "It is absolutely terrifying that Mr Bloom
can fly in the face of what we have worked and fought for, to establish equal
opportunities and rights for women."

The leader of the Party of European Socialists, Poul Nyrup Rassmussen, said the
comments were "outrageous" and "absolutely unacceptable", and added: "We will be
following up Mr Bloom's remarks."

Edward McMillan-Scott, vice-president of the Parliament, said: "I will leave it
to women MEPs to help Mr Bloom try to find his feminine side."

But last night Mr Bloom was shocked at the reaction. He said: "The serious point
I was trying to make is that an awful lot of regulations work against women when
they should work for women.

"I gave as an example the case of a small business employing two or three people
which could find itself having to pay out maternity benefits.

"I'm not against that, but the point I was making is that if a small business is
looking to employ someone they'll think twice before taking on a woman who might
later leave to have a baby.

"I wasn't saying it was right, I'm just saying it's a fact of life."

He added: "I'm astonished by the reaction to what I said."

He claimed much of his outburst was tongue in cheek, and the fridge remark was a
family joke that would have his wife roaring with laughter.

He said: "Between you, me and the gatepost I wouldn't be allowed to be in
Strasbourg if she hadn't said it would be all right."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              99 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 21, 2004

I want to deal with women's issues, because I don't think they clean behind the
fridge enough: Godfrey Bloom MEP, appointed to the women's rights committee
yesterday

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words


Europe's 200 million women yesterday acquired a new champion in the form of the
United Kingdom Independence party MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, Godfrey
Bloom. "I want to deal with women's issues", he declared, "because I just don't
think they clean behind the fridge enough."

Mr Bloom was speaking on his first day at the European parliament in Strasbourg
as one of Ukip's 11 MEPs. "I am going to promote men's rights," he said, which
was odd because he had just taken up a seat on the parliament's committee for
women's rights.

For those women wondering why someone with Mr Bloom's views on their gender
could deign to speak on their behalf, he said his mandate was clear: "I am here
to represent Yorkshire women, who always have dinner on the table when you get
home."

While the shades of Amy Johnson, the Bronte sisters and other famous
Yorkshirewomen whirled beyond the grave, Mr Bloom unrepentantly went on local
television - promptly syndicated - to make sure that his mission statement was
understood.

"The more women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to their employment," he
said, citing his experience in the Territorial Army and a London investment firm
for which he still works as a researcher. "No self-respecting small businessman
with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age."

Mr Bloom, perpetually pin-striped and with an office answering machine which
barks "Halt! Who goes there?", then briefly disappeared under a pile of furious
responses from other MEPs, particularly from women.

He was denounced as "Neanderthal and absolutely terrifying" by Glenys Kinnock.
Mary Honeyball, a Labour colleague on the women's rights committee, suggested an
investigation of his business practices by a discrimination tribunal.

But Mr Bloom, 54, who took the last of Yorkshire's six seats in June, soon
bobbed back up again with more on the same theme. "It isn't politically correct,
is it?" he said. "But it's a fact of life. I know, because I am a businessman."

Yorkshire was absorbing his view of its women last night, but there were knowing
nods in Wressle, a small town near Selby where Mr Bloom has his party
headquarters.

Ukip's regional organiser, Tony Slater, was laid up recovering from a hip
operation (and enjoying watching his friend on TV); but his wife said: "It goes
over your head round here; we've all heard it many times before."

Mr Bloom, who fought two Westminster elections in East Yorkshire before reaching
Europe, has made a name for one of the county's characteristics - blunt talk -
while ignoring the other one - of "seeing and hearing all, but saying nowt".

Friends of Mr Bloom, who is known to some as Godfrey's Bloomers, point out that
for all his straight talking, his home life does not bear out any notion that
women should primarily scrub and cook.

His wife Katie is better-known than he is - or at least she was until last night
- as one of the country's leading horse physiotherapists and as a "passionate"
side-saddle rider.

She was not available for comment, but she has come to his rescue before. When
Ukip was charged with xenophobia, he countered robustly that his wife was
half-Polish.

The party might soon find itself in need of more such excuses. After a month in
the political sunshine that saw it dominate coverage of the European elections,
Ukip has already had to suspend one of its MEPs, Ashley Mote, who is facing
allegations of housing benefit fraud.

Yesterday the party tried to laugh off its latest embarrassment. But the Tories
- out for revenge - will be watching.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 21, 2004

Kilroy, the apricot jam in the tapioca party

BYLINE: Sketch David Aaronovitch in Strasbourg

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words


In the walkways of the European parliament, looking for Kilroy, and following
the camera lights, I found myself face to sculpted cheekbone with the assembly's
most famous member, Alessandra Mussolini, descendant of the Italian dictator.
Picked out in the glow, with fabulous tan, long strawberry blonde hair, pouty
lips, and an oversized medal jiggling on her striped knitwear, she looked a
star. Ms Mussolini is the representative of a party called the Lista Mussolini
which - to a Brit - seems as unremarkable as having a Lista Attila Il Hun.

The 11 members of the Lista Kilroy were eventually discovered huddled together
on the first floor of the glass and wood building overlooking the River Ill.
This year nearly 30% of the MEPs are women, but with Ukip this proportion falls
a bit - to zero. This makes Kilroy, with his tan and his greater femininity
stand out even more among all the stodgy white men, like a dollop of radioactive
apricot jam in a bowl of school tapioca. What were they going to do, I asked
some of the tapioca, given all that wrecking that has been promised? "We may,"
it replied excitedly, "tear our ballot papers for the president of the
parliament up!"

Seen from the gallery, the parliament is an impressive place. It is half Greek
amphitheatre, half deck of some great spaceship. It has walls of white light,
with transparent strips behind which sits the army of translators required to
render Estonian into Greek and Polish into Portuguese. Below sit the 725 members
elected to represent 450 million Europeans. In front, an eye-shaped dais seats
the president and the officials.

Proceedings started, and at 2 o'clock to the dais, I could see the Lista Kilroy,
with the man himself in chair number 686. European institutions like their
courtesies, and as the chair was celebrating the work of some obscure Dutch
parliamentarian, Kilroy slumped low in his seat, emaciated, well-preserved,
brown and scowling, listening to the proceedings through headphones pushed back
towards his neck. It was as though Pharaoh Senwosret III had been teleported by
mistake from the mummy room at the Cairo Antiquities mu seum to the dock at the
Nuremberg trial.

Next up were the candidates for the presidency of the parliament, and each gave
a five minute speech. The social-democratic Spaniard had helped bring democracy
to Spain after Franco. The liberal Pole had been a member of Solidarity. They
were apologetic about the need to reconnect Europe with the electors and were
warmly applauded. I felt it was quite impressive, how people from 25 countries
were here together; people who had been either side of the iron curtain; people
who had grown up under tyranny; people whose fathers and grandfathers had fought
each other in savage wars.

A tear in my eye, I found the press room, where the Lista welcomed journalists
with the words, "we have just witnessed the ghastly sterility of the European
parlia ment in action!" These sentiments came from Roger Knapman, the former
Tory MP who is the party's leader. Flanking him were Nigel Farage, the Dr Evil
of Ukip, and Robert Kilroy-Silk himself. Robert was cross with the candidate.

You see, he said, how they are trying to take us over? The first candidate
admitted to a "project", the second one had talked about a "dream". Project and
dreams! But look, he went on, in his strange snap, click, crack, drraaawwll way
of speaking, "we do not come here to destroooooy or destruuuuuuct. We respect
the legitimacy of the parliament." All we want to do, he explained, is to wreck
things. "I'm very fond of the Italians and the Spanish. I like the people, I
like the countries. Some of the clothes I am wearing were made there!" (Ah,
Robert, I thought, the Dolce & Gabbana zebra thong.) There we had it. The
Torremolinos view of the European enterprise.

And of everything else. With no Lista women to do the job, the Yorkshire fund
manager Godfrey Bloom has put himself on the women's rights committee. His role,
he said, after the press conference, was "to represent Yorkshire women who
always had dinner on the table when you get home". No, but japing aside,
hee-hee, there was a serious point about over-regulation. As Mr Bloom explained:
"No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a woman of child-bearing age." One wondered where, exactly, Mr Bloom
thought the right place for his brain was. Certainly nowhere as far north as his
head. Bang went a zillion votes, and just wait until Kilroy - or Signora
Mussolini - catches up with him.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP MEMBER'S SEXIST TIRADE MARS KILROY'S BIG DAY

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Godfrey Bloom: Bizarre attack on women's
rights; Robert Kilroy-Silk's first act as an MEP was to tear up his ballot for
the election of a president of the European Parliament Thierry Monasse/AFP/Getty
Images

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 865 words


THE UK Independence Party's great communicator, Robert Kilroy-Silk, yesterday
found his debut in the European Parliament overshadowed as a colleague grabbed
the spotlight with an extraordinary attack on women's rights.

Nominated by UKIP for the Parliament's Women's Rights Committee, Godfrey Bloom,
newly elected MEP for Yorkshire and Humberside, made a bizarre series of
comments that seemed destined to dent his party's credibility as a serious
political force.

Speaking on the fringes of a press conference Mr Bloom joked that women "don't
clean behind the fridge enough" adding: "I would represent Yorkshire women who
always have dinner on the table when you come home."

As the episode reached a surreal climax he turned to a television camera to
declare: "The more rights you have for women it is actually a bar on their
employment. No self-respecting small business man with a brain in the right
place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age. That isn't politically
correct is it? But it is a fact of life; I know because I'm a businessman."

Amid of storm of protests, his comments were described by one political leader
as "outrageous" and the Labour Euro MP Glenys Kinnock said: "We know UKIP are
Neanderthal in their attitudes but it is absolutely terrifying that Mr Bloom can
fly in the face of what we have worked and fought for, to establish equal
opportunities and rights for women. He cannot strut around here saying things
like that."

Although the Women's Rights Committee has not been constituted yet, officials
said it would be difficult to deny Mr Bloom a place if he receives a formal
nomination from his own group. However, one Irish MEP Kathy Sinnott said she is
considering whether she can remain in the same political group as UKIP following
Mr Bloom's outburst.

The comments detracted attention from the first visit of Mr Kilroy-Silk to
Strasbourg since the party's spectacular success in June's European elections.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's first pre-scripted initiative was to tear up his ballot paper
for the election of a President of the European Parliament. UKIP had never been
expected to back the successful candidate Josep Borrell a Catalan Socialist and
former Spanish Cabinet Minister who will serve for two and a half years courtesy
of a deal between the Parliament's two biggest groups.

But all three contenders for the post were considered unworthy of support by
UKIP, including Bronislaw Geremek, a renowned scholar and a founder of the
Solidarnosc who emerged from prison under the Communists to become Foreign
Minister of a liberated Poland.

Mr Geremek's vision of Europe, honed at the Polish Academy of Sciences and the
Sorbonne was rejected by Mr Kilroy- Silk who offered an alternative view of the
Continent: somewhere to go on holiday and buy clothing.

"I am very fond of Italy and Spain," said the former daytime television
presenter,"I spend a lot of time in France, every single year. I like the
people, I like the culture. I think I am wearing a motley collection of foreign
clothes."

On the eve of their first visit to Strasbourg, UKIP suffered a public relations
disaster with the suspension of their MEP, Ashley Mote, who had campaigned to
clean up sleaze in Brussels. Mr Mote neglected to mention to his colleagues that
he faces charges in court over alleged housing benefit fraud.

Now down from 12 to 11 MEPs, UKIP took their seats among a group called
Independence and Democracy whose members' views range from mild eurosceptism to
UKIP's desire to leave the European Union.

The bloc of 33 MEPs includes the respected veteran Danish Eurosceptic,
Jens-Peter Bonde but members are also drawn from Poland's ultra-right League of
Families, several of whose members are on record with anti-Semitic or xenophobic
comments. While hostile to Brussels the League also argues for the EU to stump
up more cash for Poland's farmers.

Such inconsistencies are unlikely to trouble UKIP which yesterday moved into
reverse gear on a number of its early pledges. Mr Kilroy-Silk left observers in
confusion as to whether he and his 10 colleagues will play any significant role
in the workings of the Parliament.

Gone was an early pledge to "wreck" the Parliament and in its place came more
measured rhetoric. He surprised many when he argued: "I respect that this is a
directly elected European Parliament of 25 Nations" and added that he did not
want to "destroy or dismantle the Parliament".

Although he does not initially intend to sit on a Parliamentary committee, that
possibility has not been excluded and UKIP will take up seats on at least nine
of them.

Meanwhile an early threat to boycott Strasbourg altogether appears to have
disappeared. "I might attend every single plenary session" he said prompting the
joke that, if he continues to change his mind at this rate, UKIP may soon be
advocating British membership of the European single currency.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's commitment to transparency appeared less than complete. When
asked whether he will make public his declaration of members' financial interest
he was non-committal. "If I feel I don't want to I won't," he said tartly.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

MEP TELLS WOMEN TO CLEAN

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 158 words

HIGHLIGHT: FURY: Bloom


A BRITISH Euro MP sparked outrage yesterday by saying women should clean behind
the fridge.

Godfrey Bloom, of the UK Independence Party, won a place on the Parliament's
Women's Rights Committee then said: "I just don't think they clean behind the
fridge enough."

The investment fund manager from York said: "I am here to represent Yorkshire
women who always have dinner on the table when you get home. I am going to
promote men's rights."

Later Mr Bloom added: "The more women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to
their employment.

"No self-respecting small businessman would ever employ a lady of child-bearing
age."

Labour Euro MP Glenys Kinnock said: "We know UKIP are Neanderthal in their
attitudes, but it is terrifying that Mr Bloom can fly in the face of what we
have worked for."

Leader of Lib Dem MEPs Chris Davies added: "It looks like it is time for a ride
back to the 1950s on the UKIP time machine."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              103 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 21, 2004

UKIP JIBE OUTRAGE

LENGTH: 91 words


EURO MP Godfrey Bloom caused outrage yesterday by claiming women should
concentrate on cleaning behind the fridge and having dinner ready.

The outspoken new UK Independence Party MEP, 54, said: "I feel they don't clean
behind the fridge."

Mr Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, also told the European Parliament in
Strasbourg: "I represent Yorkshire women who always have dinner on the table
when you get home."

Labour MEP Glenys Kinnock said: "It's absolutely terrifying he can fly in the
face of what we've fought for."


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              104 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 21, 2004

FAULTY TOWER

BYLINE: Simon Hughes, Chief investigative reporter

SECTION: EU'S WASTED BILLIONS: SHOCK SUN REPORT

LENGTH: 946 words


Kinnock's Pounds 800m monument to chaos

EURO bigwig Neil Kinnock paid Pounds 370MILLION of taxpayers' cash to buy
offices which have been unusable for 13 years.

The former Labour leader's Eurocrat colleagues agreed to fork out a further
Pounds 338million to renovate the dilapidated building in Brussels city centre.

And the European Commission handed over Pounds 96million in rent for the
property -even though it was empty. That takes the total cost for the 13-storey
Berlaymont building -nicknamed the Berlaymonster -to more than Pounds
800MILLION.

Useless

Today the star-shaped concrete and glass construction, intended to be Europe's
"White House," is still empty -TWO YEARS after Mr Kinnock signed to buy it.

He negotiated the purchase in his role as the Commission's Pounds 120,000-a year
vice-president.

Last night Tory Euro MP Chris Heaton-Harris said the Berlaymont project "just
typifies Europe". He added: "It is an expensive, useless white elephant."

Dutch MEP Michiel Van Hulten blasted: "It has been a disaster from start to
finish. And the Commission, until recently, didn't take it seriously." Officials
consulted over the revamp told how red tape and confusion have led to delay
after delay.

Incredibly, a decision on what kind of LIGHTBULBS to fit took a marathon 12
weeks.

The farce was detailed in an internal newsletter circulated among the
Commission's 450 full-time interpreters -who will be among the staff housed in
the building once it is ready.

In an interview published in the newsletter, senior EC official Didier Hespel
said: "I should like to mention one factor which contributed to drawing things
out.

"It could take up to six weeks for a question on lightbulb specifications -and
then another six weeks for the answer to get back."

He added: "The saga of the Berlaymont building has been with us more than ten
years to such an extent none of the people who started to work on it are
associated with the project today."

Berlaymont, right, was built in 1967. The EC immediately leased it from the
Belgian government and Commission staff worked there until 1991...when asbestos
was discovered in the block's supporting structure.

The staff were evacuated. But the Commission continued to pay rent at Pounds
8.7million a year. In an EC press release dated December 5 2000, it was revealed
that asbestos removal did not begin until 1995.

The work took four years to complete and finished 15 months behind schedule. All
the time, the EC kept paying rent.

Then in 2002, it bought the block from the Belgians.

Its full financial commitment was disclosed in this European Parliament answer
on December 17 2002: "The Commission's total payment will be 553million euros
and its share of the renovation costs is set at 503million euros."

Fiasco

Danish Euro MP Jens-Peter Bonde blasted: "This is a waste of taxpayers' money.

"It is difficult to understand how they can use so much cash and take so much
time. I am not saying it is fraud but it is mismanagement and it is lacking
transparency."

Brit Mr Heaton-Harris said: "It has been a fiasco for a number of years and is
getting worse.

"The bloke who was the project manager for this should have been fired years
ago.

But alas we cannot get rid of him -his name is Mr Neil Kinnock."

Workmen continue to toil on the block. One Brussels insider chuckled when asked
when it would be ready for occupation.

He said: "It is supposed to be in September, but who knows?"

The Sun Says -Page Eight

* THE Sun today exposes the appalling waste, greed and corruption aboard the
world's biggest gravy train...the European Union.

We are publishing the results of a special investigation into the EU as
Britain's 87 Euro MPs join 699 colleagues for the new session of the European
Parliament.

By the time it ends in 2009, UK taxpayers will have pumped Pounds 32.5BILLION
into the bloated monster.

* Tony Blair has signalled his intention to shackle Britain ever more tightly to
the cash-guzzling giant.

Yet our dossier reveals the alarming truth about an EU plagued by huge handouts,
reckless spending and crooked deceit.

Even the EU's own fraudbusters reckon that in the year ending June 2003, proven
scams cost it a staggering Pounds 590million. The real figure is feared to be
far higher.

* TODAY we will tell how European Commission bigwig Neil Kinnock, pictured
below, spent Pounds 370million buying an office block which has been unusable
for 13 years.

TOMORROW we will show how a courageous whistleblower who tried to lift the lid
on fiddling was vilified and sidelined from his job.

And we will reveal a secret guidebook showing how Euro MPs are officially
entitled to an annual perks package worth Pounds 140million.

Abuse of the system is widespread. One European Commission official was
convicted of forgery, fraud and deception after creating false travel documents
to make claims for attending meetings which were never held. The woman was
ordered to repay Pounds 465,000 and jailed for 40 months.

* A lawyer who worked simultaneously on EU-funded projects in FOUR countries was
reported to have submitted invoices "for a total number of working days in
excess of actual working days possible".

Our probe revealed how waste is built in because the EU has THREE HQs Brussels
in Belgium, Strasbourg in France and tiny Luxembourg.

* Once a month a convoy of lorries makes the 434-mile round trip between
Brussels and Strasbourg with tons of documents needed for meetings. UKIP Euro MP
Nigel Farage estimated the cost at almost Pounds 70million a year -and said: "It
is madness."


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              105 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

Why a woman's place is behind the fridge

BYLINE: Anthony Browne in Strasbourg and Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 349 words


GODFREY BLOOM is a blunt-speaking Yorkshire businessman who likes his wife to
keep his kitchen spotless and serve his dinner when he arrives home from work.

He is also one of the UK Independence Party's 12 MEPs and yesterday put himself
forward as a member of the European Parliament's women's rights committee. This
may be the UKIP's way of ensuring that it lives up to its promise of "wrecking"
the Strasbourg Parliament.

However, it could simultaneously jeopardise the party's chances of ever again
winning a single female vote.

Mr Bloom said: "I just think they don't clean behind the fridge enough. I am
here to represent Yorkshire women, who always have the dinner on the table when
you get home. I am going to promote men's rights." His fellow UKIP Euro MPs
cheered his manifesto loudly but, as news of his politically incorrect outburst
spread, the businessman turned politician claimed that his remarks were being
taken out of context.

He tried to redress the balance in a television interview, but dug himself
deeper.

Mr Bloom said: "The more women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to their
employment. No self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place
would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age.

"That isn't politically correct, is it? But it's a fact of life. I know, because
I am a businessman."

Mr Bloom, 54, has previously confined his feminist activities to sponsoring the
Cambridge University ladies' rugby team. After the 2003 Varsity match, he
praised the victorious Cambridge "girls", stating that while some might think
them "manly", they actually "scrub up very nicely".

Glenys Kinnock, the Labour MEP, said she was horrified at the prospect of Mr
Bloom -a supporter of country sports and a member of the Freedom Association -on
the women's rights committee.

"We know UKIP are Neanderthal in their attitudes, but it is absolutely
terrifying that Mr Bloom can fly in the face of what we have worked and fought
for," Mrs Kinnock said.

The new MEP's wife, Katie, was unavailable for comment last night.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 20, 2004

Blair: the voters' verdict: At the end of a tumultuous political year, the prime
minister reaches his 10th anniversary as Labour leader and today faces the last
big debate before the recess. A special Guardian poll assesses the mood of
voters at this crucial time

BYLINE: Alan Travis and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words


On the eve of the 10th anniversary of Tony Blair's leadership of the Labour
party tomorrow, voters have a largely negative view of the prime minister but
still see him as competent and experienced.

Today's Guardian/ICM poll to mark the day Mr Blair was confirmed as John Smith's
successor uncovers a sense among voters that the Blair era will come to a close
some time after next year's general election.

But most of the electorate does not want him to step down just yet. The Tories
are nowhere, Michael Howard is slipping back, losing ground to Charles Kennedy's
Liberal Democrats.

Before today's debate on the Butler inquiry, the July Guardian/ICM opinion poll
also shows that a clear majority of voters - 55% - believes that Mr Blair lied
over Iraq.

Opposition to the war has jumped 13 points in Britain in the last two months;
56% say it was unjustified - the highest level recorded on the ICM war tracker.

As Mr Blair squares up to fight off yet another assault on his handling of Iraq
in the Commons this afternoon, the voters see life in Britain as no fairer than
it was and see him as a leader who has broken his 1997 campaign promise to
govern "in the interests of the many and not the few".

Although a clear majority regards Mr Blair as their premier of choice, they also
see him as arrogant, dishonest and "too presidential".

That is a significant perception. Mr Blair is not the first prime minister to be
so described. Margaret Thatcher and Harold Wilson were too. But the age of 24/7
TV news magnifies a leader's power - and faults.

Although Tory and Liberal Democrat voters, egged on by the anti-Blair media on
both left and right, understandably want him to go before the next general
election, the centre of gravity of opinion among Labour voters appears to be
that he should stand down some time after next year's general election.

This is a significantly shorter timescale than they were prepared to contemplate
in May, when 48% said he should go on until the general election after next.
Voters are getting used to the idea of Life After Blair, but are slow to adapt
to the Brown Era. The chancellor looks likely to have to be patient a little
longer. Michael Howard looks like waiting for ever.

Mr Blair can take some comfort in the fact that he still retains strong personal
support among Labour's core vote: 67% still regard him as "honest" and
"trustworthy" and do not want him to step down before the next election.

As Mr Blair enters his eighth year in power, Labour still retains an
election-winning five-point lead over the Tories on this month's ICM's voting
intention question.

Mr Howard has a minus-8 points approval rating on this month's poll. The
Conservatives had only 30% of the vote. The alternative parties who are exciting
voters are the Liberal Democrats, who in the wake of their byelection triumphs
are up three points to 25% this month, and the Greens and Ukip, who both take a
3% share of the vote.

Mr Blair may feel that it is his personal political reputation rather than that
of the Labour party which has suffered most from the continuing row over the
Iraq war. This month's poll provides further fuel for that analysis, as it shows
that Gordon Brown would more than double Labour's lead to 11 points over the
Tories if he were Labour leader.

The detailed ICM poll find ings show that Mr Blair's personal rating remains
firmly in the doldrums at minus-22 points. Only 36% of voters are satisfied with
his performance as prime minister, while 58% are unhappy. Among Labour voters
77% give him their approval, but his overall rating has now been bouncing along
the bottom of the graph since the Iraq war.

Despite "four inquiries and no funeral", a clear majority of voters, 55% now
believe that Mr Blair did lie over the war. Those who believe it was not
justified rose from 43% in May to 56% this month. Support for the invasion has
fallen over the same period from 44% to 38%. Among Labour voters 58% say they
still support the war and 38% are opposed. Those opposed are mainly Conservative
and Liberal Democrat voters.

The decline in Mr Blair's personal standing is clearly shown. In 1997 only 21%
regarded him as arrogant; 65% felt he was in tune with them; 80% felt he had
"lots of personality"; and 57% felt he was tough. Now 52% regard him as
arrogant; only 37% believe he is in tune with them; and 54% say he is full of
personality.

Only a year ago, 49% believed he was honest - a rating that has fallen to only
37% today. The voters are not all unkind to him. More than 70% now regard him as
"experienced" and more interestingly 57% say that he is "competent" - up from
52% a year ago.

As for the longer view, the voters were asked by ICM to make a judgment about
whether Britain has become a fairer country in the 10 years since he became the
Labour party leader. Only 22% of all voters said they believed Britain was a
"fairer" place, and surprisingly only 43% of Labour voters made the same
judgment. More than a third of all voters, 38%, said they believed life in
Britain has actu ally become less fair, including 15% of all Labour voters. The
rest depressingly felt there had been no change over the last decade, including
38% of Labour voters.

Similarly, when voters were asked whether Mr Blair had achieved his promise to
act "in the interests of the many, not the few", 64% of all voters said they
believed he had failed to do this.

Loyally, 68% of Labour voters felt he had achieved that aim, but even among the
government's supporters, 31% felt he had failed.

As to the state of the Labour party itself the popular view - shared by 66% of
voters - is that it is less in touch with "people like me" than it was 10 years
ago. Only 27% believe it is more in tune with the country than when Mr Blair was
elected leader on July 21 1994.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,007 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between July 16 - 18, 2004. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

Mandelson's return? page 2

Tories fear Howard panic, page 8

Martin Jacques, page 20

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 20, 2004

TREBLES ALL ROUND AT THE TOWN HALL

BYLINE: Richard Littlejohn

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 871 words


COUNCIL tax bills could treble, on top of the 70 per cent rise under Labour
since 1997. Ministers think we should pay more to reflect the rise in the value
of our houses over the past seven years.

What they ignore is that the only time you realise the value of your house is
when you come to sell it. And then only if you buy a cheaper property or decide
to cash in your chips and rent.

The vast majority of people plough their

profits into another house - and get hammered with outrageous stamp duty demands
into the bargain.

While property values have soared, wages haven't kept pace. So where the hell
are people expected to find the money to meet a 300 per cent increase in their
council tax, especially

pensioners and those on fixed incomes?

What ministers should be doing is taking a scythe to council spending, not
screwing every last penny out of already hard-pressed taxpayers to finance
so-called "services" which we didn't ask for and don't want.

We don't ask much from local government. All we expect are decent local schools,
properly

maintained streets and public parks and the

rubbish collected at least once a week.

How difficult can that be?

Yet these straightforward tasks seem beyond the competence of most Town Halls.

Instead of spending money on clean, weatherproof schools, where children are
taught to read and write, the education establishment prefers

to hire bureaucrats, counsellors and diversity

advisers, who put social engineering before

learning.

Of the 88,000 people most recently recruited to work in education, education,
education, only 14,000 found their way into the classrooms as either teachers or
assistants.

There's never any shortage of money to blow on fancy herringbone paving schemes,
tacky street furniture and elaborate traffic humps. But try getting the council
to fix a wonky pavement or fill in a pothole.

They've all got foreign policies, anti-discrimination directorates, transgender
empowerment

programmes and anti-nuclear strategies, but seem incapable of getting anyone to
sweep the streets.

If your dustbin does get emptied, chances are it's a private contractor and if
you want to put out more than one sack it'll cost extra.

Local government has lost all sense of what it's there for in the first place.

It is now one giant job creation scheme for otherwise unemployable members of
the polytechnocracy.

Council tax is little more than a sophisticated device to transfer money from
Sun readers to Guardian readers, who fritter it away on ever more grandiose
departments staffed by people like themselves.

And then when savings have be made - sorry "Tory cuts" - it's always dustmen,
roadsweepers and dinner ladies who get the old tin tack, never the co ordinating
and outreaching classes.

It's all vote-rigging. What's the difference between Shirley Porter flogging off

Westminster council houses to yuppies and Labour hiring thousands of Guardian

readers to sit around on fat salaries making a bloody nuisance of themselves to
no

useful purpose?

None. Both are designed to buy support at the ballot box.

How many of the 550,000 civil servants hired since Labour came to office, not to
mention the 360,000 due to be added to the payroll over the next three years,
are going to vote Tory?

Precisely.

And that's why instead of tackling the bloated monster which local government
has become,

Labour is working out the best way to fleece the rest of us to pay for it.

While we're facing a 300 per cent tax hike, back at the Town Hall it's trebles
all round.

THE BOYS IN THE BANDS

THE Government is working on eight new council tax bands to be introduced 2007.
This column has obtained a copy of the draft plan, together with typical
examples and the estimated amount of tax each category can expect to pay.

BAND A Central London. Cardboard box, single occupancy, dog on a string, bottle
of Strongbow. Estimate: Pounds 0

BAND B Cottenham, Cambs. Caravan, family of nine, Nissan Patrol, three dogs, up
to six horses, cash business. Estimate: Pounds 0.

BAND C Surbiton. Between-the-wars semi-detached. Pensioner on fixed income,
single garage, two gnomes, votes Tory. Estimate: Pounds 5,000.

BAND D West London. Luxury Pounds 250,000 accommodation provided by local
authority. Afghan hijacker and living on benefits, one plasma television, two
mobile phones, Vauxhall Astra. Estimate: Pounds 0.

BAND E Birmingham. Three-bed detached, integral garage, one satellite dish,
stone cladding. Self-employed plumber, married, two kids, own van, suspected of
voting UKIP. Estimate: Pounds 7,500.

BAND F Notting Hill. Minimalist flat, politician, same-sex relationship,
Brazilian boyfriend, labrador, soon to to Brussels. Estimate: Pounds 0 (after
mortgage discount and stamp duty relief).

BAND G Norfolk. Bleak House, farmer living alone, two shotguns, six burglaries,
nearest police station 25 miles away. Estimate: Five years.

BAND H Westminster. Clapham, Hull, Dorneywood. Four homes, two Jags, one scuba
suit, salary Pounds 130,000 pa, plus generous expenses, living allowance and
first class air travel. Estimated council tax: Pounds 0.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              108 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 July 20, 2004

NOW BLAIR IS CLEARED, LET THE HAND-WRINGING STOP

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUES; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 669 words


TONY BLAIR has been cleared of fiddling intelligence material to justify the war
in Iraq. The Butler Report said Saddam was intent on pursuing prohibited weapons
programmes - including nukes - but concluded no one was to blame for weak
intelligence. Many readers say that should be the end of the matter. Others are
not so sure.

IT is now time to end the debate over whether we should or should not have gone
to war.

Because of Saddam's defeat, Libya has surrendered its weapons of mass
destruction and other countries around the world are now wary of acquiring them.

And it is because of Blair and Bush that ordinary Iraqis now live in a free
country.

KIRAN SHAH

Loughborough, Leics

NOW the Butler Report has decided Tony Blair acted in good faith when he got us
involved in Iraq and helped topple Saddam, I hope that will put an end to the
matter.

All of this hand-wringing has got to stop. The Prime Minister can't do
everything, which means he had to rely on the intelligence reports that have now
emerged to be weak.

How is this his fault? But he must do something to ensure more accurate
intelligence in the future.

JULIE GIBBS

Lincoln

THE Conservative Party is furious over the findings of the Butler Report. Yet,
fully aware of the flaky contents of the 2002 dossier on Iraq, Iain Duncan Smith
did not once publicly challenge the contents of the evidence being circulated to
justify the invasion.

MIKE ABBOTT

Kew, Surrey

HIS history of gamesmanship with the UN weapons inspectors and having already
had - and used - WMD on his own people means Saddam Hussein was a victim of his
own success in trying to convince the West he was a danger to us.

It's no wonder that almost all intelligence agencies thought he had these
weapons.

DAVID CASSIDY

Motherwell, North Lanarkshire

WAS the outcome of the Butler Report ever in doubt? Every report ordered by the
Government shows Mr Blair and his ministers are blameless.

It's a good thing that the rest of us know who to blame. Yes Tony, it's you.

EDDIE LONGHURST

Leigh-on-Sea, Essex

SO now we know all about the run-up to the Iraq War.

Nobody did anything wrong except the BBC, which was cut down to size because it
annoyed Alastair Campbell.

The intelligence services were pretty useless but it was no one's fault. All
that's missing is for UKIP to blame it all on Brussels.

MIKE TURNER

St Anne's, Lancs

BLAIR may not have lied to the country but, as usual, certain facts not helping
his case were omitted.

As Andrew Gilligan said, the dossier was sexed up to sell the case for war.
People were persuaded by warnings of stocks of WMD and the imminent threat of
attack - not by a regime change.

STEWART LOVATT

Leicester

IN the US, as in Britain, the intelligence services are being used as the
scapegoat for an ill-conceived, badly planned and dodgy war.

They must not be pressurised by politicians to back up their bad decisions.

The Butler Report is just more of the same smokescreen to cover up Bush and
Blair's biggest mistake - believing their own hype.

ALLAN FREW

Nottingham

NOW we know they still have lots of whitewash left in the establishment bucket.

How big is that bucket - or is that secret as well?

There was no reason to believe that Saddam could have launched chemical and
biological weapons in 45 minutes.

I think we went to war under false pretences. The right war at the wrong time
for the wrong reasons.

SUE DOUGHTY

Woodley, Berks

THERE is little doubt that, as Tony Blair says, Iraq and the wider world is a
better and safer place without Saddam. But the end does not justify the means.

Much is being made of "global intelligence failings" but UN weapons inspectors
were finding nothing before we started hostilities.

Yet we seemed determined to wage war.

In the wake of the Iraqi blunders, intelligence services seem a complete waste
of time and money.

BRIAN CUNNINGHAM

High Wycombe, Bucks


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              109 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 20, 2004, Tuesday

Mandelson may have some useful advice for the Conservatives

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 549 words


MICHAEL HOWARD should listen to Peter Mandelson. The sage of Hartlepool is not
an impartial observer, but he does know a lot about how to turn serial losers
into winners.

Since its third place in last week's by-elections, the Conservative Party has
been going through one of the regular bursts of anxiety that afflict all
opposition parties from time to time. Repeated polls have shown a decline in Mr
Howard's rating: the Tories lag behind Labour on being fit to form a government
and on most of the domestic agenda. Despite rising dissatisfaction with the
Blair administration, many more people would still prefer a Labour to a Tory
government.

Consequently, there has been a spate of pessimistic, almost doom-laden comment.

Recent elections have been a reality check. The Tories are not going to win the
next election, but they do have a long-term future. It will not, however, be a
quick process. There are no short cuts. Mr Mandelson reports in the Evening
Standard a talk with a Tory MP claiming that his party was repeating the
Blairite strategy of the 1990s in avoiding policy, suppressing disunity and
spinning the media. But "this caricature fails to understand just how much
Labour had to change before making itself electable. We had to drain a swamp of
outdated policy and negative imagery."

Mr Mandelson has a point. Spin and control-freakery were secondary to strategy.

The repositioning on policy, and the endlessly repeated reassurances of Tony
Blair and Gordon Brown, were what mattered. The pre-1997 policies had plenty of
flaws, and many have since been changed, but new Labour would not have won in
1997 without shifting policy. That created the new image.

At present the Tories are, at most, at stage two of recovery. They are no longer
hated by the public, but they are not yet either liked or, even worse, taken
seriously. This is partly a matter of timing and opportunity. Despite Iraq, the
Blair Government has not yet passed its point of no return.

In many ways, the Tories have been doing the right things since 2001. Iain
Duncan Smith began to refocus on the issues of most concern to voters, such as
public services, and Mr Howard has continued the process. Recent health and
schools proposals have many merits but the overall message is blurred. Choice is
a confusing concept for many voters. Moreover, there are many loose ends in
Oliver Letwin's spending package.

The worst thing the Tories could do "is to move panicridden to the right", as
Chris Patten said over the weekend. Embracing the UK Independence Party or
adopting an even stronger line on immigration and asylum would lose as many
voters as it might gain. Mr Howard's family history and personal decency ensure,
moreover, that he will not have anything to do with some of the nuttier and more
distasteful ideas about confronting Islam.

The real debate is whether to broaden the campaign against bloated government
and bureaucracy into promises of big tax cuts, as Lord Saatchi has urged. The
Tories can be the party of lower taxes, but first they have to win the argument
about the size and role of the State. That is a prerequisite for persuading
voters that tax cuts do not imperil valued services. It is a long haul that
requires patience and persistence.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 20, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP plans alliance to scupper constitution

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 620 words


THE United Kingdom Independence Party will use the European Parliament's first
full session since its election breakthrough in the European elections last
month to forge pan-European alliances with scores of other Eurosceptic MEPs and
scupper the new EU constitution.

The UKIP said yesterday that its main aim was to achieve a "no" vote in as many
as possible of the ten countries holding referendums on the constitution. "Our
main goal is to get as many 'nos' as possible to stop the constitution. That is
our main political goal for the next two years. I anticipate a lot of
co-operation on referendums," Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader in the European
Parliament, said.

Mr Farage said that about 100 of the Parliament's 732 MEPs opposed the
constitution, and that they would co-operate by sharing information budgets and
running joint campaigns. "A stream of visitors to Britain saying 'no' in our
referendum campaign would be a good thing because it would show that it is not
just the British who are opposed to the constitution," he said. In a sharp break
with past practice, the UKIP is also chasing influential posts in the Parliament
in order to cause as many problems as possible. Robert Kilroy-Silk, the party's
star attraction, declared after the elections last month, at which the party
quadrupled its seats to 12, that his aim was to wreck the Parliament.

Official positions in the new Parliament will be shared out according to their
electoral success. The main parties are expected to close ranks against the UKIP
, one of the few parties in Europe that actually wants to pull out of the
European Union. Most other Eurosceptic parties merely want to limit the EU's
power.

The party is confident that it can get eight places on parliamentary committees,
which decide on legislation, and help a kindred spirit to become one of the five
quaestors who control the Parliament's rules. If that happened, "they would not
be able to bring the whole machine down, but they could cause problems with the
application of existing rules," one parliamentary source said.

The UKIP has apparently given up having one of its own MEPs chosen as a quaestor
because it was clear that it would meet too much opposition. Peter Skinner, a
Labour MEP, said: "There will be a lot of closing ranks by other parliamentary
groups if they try to get one of these positions. Their agenda is to wreck the
Parliament, and if they want to take a position like quaestor, they could wreck
it."

The UKIP has already put together an official political group of 33 Eurosceptic
MEPs from five countries, called Independence/Democracy (ID). It is the largest
such group that the European Parliament has seen, and entitles them to millions
of pounds of EU funding as well as free staff.

The UKIP has already suffered the embarrassment of having to expel one of its 12
MEPs after it emerged that he faced charges for alleged housing benefit fraud.

Ashley Mote, who awaits trial this year, was elected on an anti-fraud ticket as
MEP for the South East region.

The party's three MEPs in the last Parliament were criticised for poor
attendance, but Mr Farage said that they would be much more active this time.
"We are going to be much more heavily involved in Parliament," he said. "Most of
our members will be on (legislative) committees. We have people with expertise
from their commercial life, and they will get involved."

He denied that his aim was just to cause trouble. "The better armed we are with
knowledge here, the better we can take part in the debate in the UK. We are not
seeking to be the Guy Fawkes of the European Parliament. We have never
deliberately sought to make ourselves unpopular."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 19, 2004

Cynicism, lies and betrayal

BYLINE: MELANIE PHILLIPS

SECTION: ED_2ND_04; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1252 words


ON WEDNESDAY, it will be the tenth anniversary of Tony Blair's leadership of the
Labour Party.

The Prime Minister will mark this milestone with his back to the wall.

With the House of Commons poised to strike him down tomorrow on the charge of
misleading the nation over the Iraq war, with the loss of one hitherto
rock-solid Labour seat last week and the near-loss of a second, and with Gordon
Brown prowling round his prey, one might think this would be less of a
celebration than a wake.

But astonishingly, despite all this, Mr Blair remains the only show in town.

Every time his political obituary is prematurely written, he springs back into
life to shower us with yet more initiatives which this time - promise! - will
finally get everything sorted.

Mr Blair has permanently lost it with the voters. He has squandered their trust
through his cult of spin, slipperiness and self-delusion; he has betrayed their
faith that he would deliver on public services and social order. Whatever he
says now will not be believed.

But there is no gain from this for the Tories, because it simply reminds people
that they no longer believe anything any regular politician says.

Instead, there is a new pattern.

Labour's vote collapses; the Tory vote does not revive; voters turn instead not
merely to the classic Lib Dem protest vehicle but to fringe parties: the UK
Independence Party, the anti-Iraq war Respect, or the BNP.

Mainstream politics is thus threatening to give way to the often disturbing
extremism of fringe groups. This is because people increasingly think mainstream
parties no longer speak for them.

There is corrosive cynicism about politicians who ignore politically incorrect
issues, mislead the public to cover up their own deficiencies, or jump on any
passing bandwagon.

Michael Howard's latest about-turn on the Iraq war sadly confirms this
impression.

Whatever one's views on that war, the Tory leader's new position, that he
originally supported it and still supports it but can no longer support the
terms on which Mr Blair put it to the country, will strike many as an
opportunist wriggle to capitalise on antiwar sentiment.

But the Tories are suffering from a far deeper problem.

Simply, they are drifting rudderless on the sea of ideas. They no longer know
what they stand for that is distinctive.

People are galvanised into voting only by clear alternatives.

But as we can see from the argument over who is more pro-choice in the public
services, both parties are competing for the same political territory.

This jostling dates back to the fall of communism, when political parties lost
their bearings.

Labour, stripped of its distinctive socialist identity, vacuously defined itself
instead by being Not-the-Tories. The Lib Dems became even more Not-the-Tories
than Labour.

But the problem was that the Tories also decided to become Not-the-Tories, on
the basis that they had to reflect the way society was changing. In doing so,
they signed their own political death warrant.

For the deepest change that has taken place is social and political
fragmentation, and the loss of the unifying sense of an overarching national
interest to which all subscribe.

One after another, the fundamental building blocks of family, nation and
majority values have been undermined and replaced by the primacy of self-
centredness, subjective feelings and victim culture.

Co-operative institutions that once bound our society together, such as
churches, political parties or trades unions, have haemorrhaged members and been
replaced by single-issue causes.

Our political elite has responded by encouraging the rise of technocratic,
bureaucratic, trans-national government, progressively challenging-both
democracy and national identity.

Mr Blair in particular stands for these trends, emptying power from the
country's institutions and either concentrating it in himself or dispersing it
to the courts, the EU and other supranational bodies.

The Tories don't understand that the big issue for them is to fight this
fragmentation. So many voters are desperate about the erosion of national and
cultural identity, and the decline of social and moral order.

Some are turning to groups such as the BNP, which has always exploited
legitimate grievances to mask its truly thuggish and racist nature.

But instead of addressing such concerns, the Tories are at war among themselves
along precisely these cultural fault lines. So issues of consuming concern are
simply ignored.

The loss to Europe of the power of self-government needs to be reversed.

Islamist prejudice, intolerance and violence need to be fought, along with
irrational prejudice and violence against Muslims.

Both the Civil Partnerships Bill and the latest suggestion that unmarried
couples should be given the same privileges as married couples should be
rejected as a direct attack on the bedrock institution of our society.

These things all represent a threat to democracy, order and the British way of
life. But those who say so are vilified as extremist bigots and all but
intimidated into silence.

The political class is struck dumb from cowardice. So, disenfranchised voters
turn instead to anti-immigration, antiwar, anti-Europe and other dubious
single-issue groups.

Yet there is an even graver danger. At the heart of all these destructive trends
lies a society which has become increasingly unable to accept facts if they do
not fit prevailing sentiment.

That is what has happened over Iraq. Yes, Mr Blair overegged the intelligence
pudding.

But any fair-minded assessment of both the Butler and U.S.

Senate reports on intelligence would surely conclude that the threat posed by
Saddam to the West was very grave.

Indeed, from the welter of information going back to the Clinton administration,
one might say that the real scandal is actually the culpable failure of western
intelligence properly to analyse the evidence it had itself unearthed of
Saddam's involvement in repeated acts of terrorism against America.

And both the Senate and Butler reports confirm longstanding links between Saddam
and Al Qaeda.

Frighteningly, this evidence is ignored. Instead, there are increasingly open
assertions of the ugly prejudice that the Iraq war was driven by an
international Jewish conspiracy to serve the purposes of Israel, and that what
lies behind global terrorism is that Israel should never have been created in
the first place.

These are demonstrable, irrational untruths with roots deep within ancient
Judaeophobia - which so often surfaces when a society is in peril.

Such scapegoating and gross inversion of truth and lies are a symptom of a
dangerous sickness in western democracy.

For they signal that this country does not understand the threat to itself both
from within and from without.

With its lethal combination of cynicism and gullibility, our society is in the
grip of a profound political and moral confusion in which both Mr Blair and the
Tories merely thrash around.

This sickness goes far deeper than the culture of political spin, distortion and
lies. It reflects a fragmentation of the nation as a coherent entity that pulls
together.

Mr Blair may be unassailable for the present, given the absence of alternatives.
But he is presiding over a profound crisis of democracy to which none of our
politicians currently has any answer.

m.phillips@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              112 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

Like M&S, the Tories have nothing that appeals to voters

BYLINE: by Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1107 words

If the Church of England is the Conservative Party at prayer, then Marks &
Spencer is the Tories' place to shop. Conservative MPs wear its V-neck sweaters
for their bonding weekends, Tory activists choose its navy skirts for their
coffee mornings. Virginia Bottomley even had the Marble Arch branch opened out
of hours so she could buy her white cotton knickers in peace.

There is a natural affinity between the Tory party and M&S. Both are broadly
conservative, middle-class and middle-aged. Both are great British institutions
that are struggling to come to terms with the modern world.

In recent weeks, the parallels could not have been clearer. The takeover bid at
Marks & Sparks was every bit as vicious as a Conservative leadership contest.
The new man, a blast from the past, is more experienced and more respected than
his predecessor. There are plans to move into a new headquarters and produce a
redesigned logo.

Both organisations have flirted with a flamboyant Continental (Vittorio Radice
set up the trendy Lifestore, while Michael Portillo championed modern
lifestyles), then rejected his ultra-modernising views in favour of a more
incremental approach. There are doubts, though, about whether it will work. Last
week, the Tory share price dropped as fast as the value of M&S.

The results of the by-elections in Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill
were bad for Tony Blair, of course. But they were far worse for Michael Howard.
If his party had a chance of winning a general election in less than a year's
time, it would not get beaten into third place - twice. "It's a total disaster,"
one Tory told me.

This time, there are no excuses. After being caught napping by the Liberal
Democrats in Brent East last year, the Conservatives had thrown everything at
these two seats. MPs have been moaning for weeks about being bussed around the
country to campaign.

It is not enough to suggest, as Liam Fox did last Friday, that Birmingham and
Leicester are "not natural territory" for the Conservatives. They used to be. In
any case, at this stage in the electoral cycle, the main opposition party should
be picking up protest votes all over the place. And if the Tories hope to form a
national government, they should at least pretend to think they can represent
the whole country.

The clear message is that, while the voters have fallen out of love with Labour,
they have not succumbed to the Conservatives' charms. The party's own focus
groups have found that most voters are "disillusioned" with Mr Blair - but this
is not enough to make them switch their support to Mr Howard.

Worryingly for the Tory leader, the polls indicate that voters are unlikely to
be won round by the time of the next general election. According to the polling
organisation Populus, Labour is on track to win with a majority of more than
100, with the Tories picking up only 16 extra seats. Although 85 per cent of
swing voters are dissatisfied with Labour, 67 per cent would still prefer to see
Mr Blair in Number 10 than Mr Howard.

There is a slow drift toward panic inside Central Office. On the Tory benches in
the Commons, the mood is more clearly defined. Backbenchers grumble about the
lack of a breakthrough and frontbenchers now admit openly that winning the next
election is not even on the cards. There is no chance of another leadership bid,
of course. "We've made our bed and we've got to lie in it and try to get a good
night's sleep," one frontbencher told me. Mr Howard's decision to soften his
support for the Iraq war may please some Tories, but it is clearly another sign
of weakness.

MPs are, however, beginning to wonder whether a change of leader was enough.
Certainly, Mr Howard has been far more professional and competent than Iain
Duncan Smith. He has avoided the traps into which his predecessor so quickly
fell - he allowed a free vote on the gay adoption issue, for example, and
refused to respond to the UK Independence Party with a tougher Euro-sceptic
tone. And he has published a coherent set of policies on the public services.

But, like Stuart Rose at M&S, he is offering voters a slightly modernised
version of the Tories' favourite lines. Instead of "Your M&S", his slogan could
be "Your UK" - smaller government, lower taxes, no more integration with Europe.
MPs question whether the "fashion with a small f" approach will restore the
fortunes of the Conservative Party, any more than it will revive a failing Marks
& Spencer. There are calls for Mr Howard to abandon the political version of big
knickers in favour of something more dramatic - the equivalent of designer
chairs and leopard-skin bras.

The Tory leader has, I am told, had representations from several frontbenchers
complaining about the "right to choose" strategy that was unveiled earlier this
month. At a frosty meeting some weeks ago, shadow ministers argued that the
policies on schools and hospitals were too complicated (and too based on
structures, rather than people's actual experience) to win votes. Other Tories
have expressed their concern that, by encouraging voters to use the private
sector in health and education, the party seems uncommitted to the public
services.

There is also an inconsistency between the Tory pledge to match Labour spending
on schools and hospitals and the aim of reducing tax. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown
has muddied the waters over Mr Howard's campaign against big government by
promising to cut the number of civil servants as well.

The Conservatives' internal research indicates that the Tory policies are
failing to hit home - earlier this year, Nick Sparrow, the head of the pollsters
ICM, who used to work for the party, gave a presentation on the public service
strategy which ended with a giant picture of a lemon, representing his view of
the policies. He has since left Central Office because, he told friends,
strategists were not interested in his negative findings.

The dilemma for the Conservatives is the same as the choice facing M&S. They
have to decide whether to appeal to their traditional supporters, or to try to
win over people who have never bought their products in the past. The temptation
for Mr Howard will be to return to the "core vote" strategy and campaign, like
Mr Duncan Smith and William Hague, on asylum, tax and Europe at the next general
election.

He should put these political

Y-fronts to the back of the drawer and get his designers to work on some more
modern garments instead. Otherwise, after polling day, Mr Howard will quickly
find himself vulnerable to an attack from a political predator who could be more
successful than Philip Green.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              113 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 19, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Natural party of oblivion

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 802 words


Subject and source, this time round, go together like a hearse and coffin.
Subject: the Conservative party. Source of infinite gloom on the way to some
neighbourhood knackers' yard: the Daily Telegraph, delivering a load of what it
dubs "pitiless clarity".

On June 10, the Tories got their worst share of the national vote since 1832.
Four weeks later, Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill gave them, on
Telegraph reckoning, "a worse drubbing than they suffered under either William
Hague or Iain Duncan Smith". Maybe this is the end of everything, the moment for
a new grouping of the right called Forza Gran Bretagna?

Such gloom has a special resonance. The Telegraph is the only national newspaper
that supports the Tories through thin and thinner, the only paper whose
readership seems eternally blue, giving up the ghost of a chance. Several
practical things follow.

One - easily checked when you scan other might-be Tory-supporting newspapers
like the Mail or Times - is the growing unlikelihood of any serious press
backing for Mr Howard next time round. Turkeys don't vote for Christmas, and
shrewd newspaper proprietors don't vote for another five years of impotence.
Misery descends, so the money won't flow into party coffers and volunteers will
fade away. So already we can begin to look beyond the next election, beyond
another defeat into the grey middle distance.

Five more years of New-ish Labour under Blair and then Brown? It's a basic
scenario, referendum or no referendum. But Michael Howard, at 68 or 69, sticking
around as the future at the election after next? This always was - and still is
- unreality. Sometime next year or the year after, the Tories are going to have
to choose a fourth leader for the wilderness years. Who on earth will that be?

Time, here, is a reaper, not a healer. It disposes of Howard, Clarke, Ancram,
Yeo and most leftovers from the Thatcher glory years. Who's still standing?
Perhaps Hague, the spectre of debacles past. Perhaps Rifkind, another holding
operation. Just perhaps, Letwin - though he'll be blamed for Failure 05. But the
name most mentioned is David Cameron. Who he?

Insiders know the answer to that by heart. Cameron, a balding mid-30s backroom
boy with a decent line in suits, has been promoted to head of policy
coordination. He is clever and able and largely invisible. Policy coordination?
What, please, is that?

The defining questions for Conservative policymakers grow starker than ever.
Europe, in or out? No: settle for a mush of stalwart rhetoric now and alleged
renegotiation later. It says, trust us and we'll fudge our way out of this.
Iraq? Er . . . we were and are more gung-ho than Labour, but we don't mind
puffing around a bit as Leader Michael supports the war but not, miasmically,
the vote that authorised it. Angels dance on the head of a spin.

Choice? We choose it, like everyone else. Health, education? We'll spend more
than Blair. Taxation? We'll sort of probably reduce it when circumstances
permit. Police, defence? More cash for less taxes (see above). Immigration?
We'll be competent. Waste? We'll be super-competent. Fighting elections? Come
back and see us sometime.

This is not, coldly considered, an inspiring pitch. When ICM (for Newsnight)
asked voters which party kept its promises, a paltry 17% said the Tories. Out of
touch with ordinary citizens? 54% said the Tories. Trusted to run the NHS? 23%
said the Tories. Fit to govern? 33% said the Tories.

A terrible problem. The erstwhile natural party of government faces three
straight terms of oblivion, and maybe more. Is someone like David Cameron the
magic ingredient for 2009? Perhaps, but perhaps he's just an IDS retread. At any
rate, he should be out front and highly visible now, part of the groundwork for
recovery (just as Blair and Brown soared under Kinnock and Hattersley). Yet
there is no groundwork and there is not the least sign of recovery.

Blame Howard? It's the facile option. He was recalled in extremis to perform
emergency surgery and he's done his best. But can he, or any Tory, connect?

On June 10, Ukip was the enemy, and polled well in the Midlands. Last Thursday,
in those same Midlands, Ukip sat the byelections out and the Tories sank to
third place. Ah! That wasn't Europe, though, surely that was the war. But
whatever it was, in whichever contest, the Conservatives - with more pitiless
clarity - always lose.

The Telegraph, of course, thinks a little more Eurosceptism and reheated
Thatcherism could pull things round eventually. It peddles a pinch of tepid
hope. But we on the outside who like our democracy vibrant and our governments
tested? We begin to realise that the system's broke and may be a decade in the
fixing. Pitiless clarity.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

THE TORIES LOOK SET TO LOSE THE NEXT ELECTION. BUT THE ELECTORATE IS ANGRY - AND
FICKLE

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1176 words


If the old rules still applied, the Tories would have no chance of winning the
next election. Though by-election victories do not guarantee general election
successes, a double fall to third place and a failure to even equal the last
election's poor performance does seem disastrous. The Tories have a serious
problem.

It is too early for them to despair. Even if time is desperately short, there
might be a way of solving the problem. Moreover, there is evidence even in the
by-election statistics that the old rules are being rewritten.

The Tories' difficulty stems from a battle which they lost in the mid- 90s; the
battle for the historical record, in which many Tories turned traitor and
collaborated with the enemy. With the possible exception of Harold Wilson, John
Major was the most vilified prime minister since Lord North. But North lost
America, while Wilson occupied Downing Street for almost eight years without a
single achievement of note and with much to his discredit. Major could cite the
first Gulf War, the Maastricht treaty, which Margaret Thatcher would have signed
had she succeeded in negotiating it, the Ulster peace process and the successful
battle against inflation. Yet Tory ultras helped Tony Blair and Alastair
Campbell to portray the Major government as corrupt, incompetent and weak, a
verdict which the party has still failed to reverse.

There is an explanation for this. The Tories have not yet offered an alternative
and persuasive account of who they are and what they believe. As long as this is
the case, memories of past distaste will be uppermost in many voter's minds. If
offered paper and pencil to write down what they think of the Tories and unable
to come up with much of an answer, the average voter will recall "sleaze".

This is not because the Tories have spent the past seven years luxuriating in
idleness. A lot of policy work has taken place; some of it, to be fair, under
Iain Duncan Smith. But no one has succeeded in turning that valuable effort into
an over-arching narrative. The Tories have lots of policy clothes-pegs, but no
clothes-line. This helps Tony Blair to make his favourite charge of opportunism.
It sometimes seems as if the Tories do pick up a different theme every week -
health, say, or education - run with it briefly, then move on to something else.
This makes it hard to capture the public's imagination or appeal to its
discontents. Yet there are openings. There is a widespread feeling that the
Blair government is weak where it ought to be strong, especially on crime and
asylum, and interfering where it has no business to do so: smacking children,
smoking, et al. There is also a widespread belief that Tony Blair is insincere
and that Gordon Brown wastes money.

So this could be a good moment to reinvigorate the traditional Tory themes of
freedom, choice and strong but limited government, thus creating a framework
which will make specific policy proposals appear more credible. This is
particularly true over crime, where the Tories' failure to project themselves is
extraordinary.

I suspect that the public has never been so angry about crime and that the
middle classes have never felt so little confidence in the police. I also
suspect that David Blunkett is aware of this, which is why he tries to sound as
tough as possible and is never reluctant to pick a fight with senior policemen.
When Oliver Letwin was shadow Home Secretary, the Tories thought that they had a
strategy to combat this. The plan was to avoid an early rhetorical
confrontation. Indeed, Mr Letwin was often happy to agree with Mr Blunkett. But
then, after a decent interval, the trap would be sprung. More in sorrow than in
anger, the Tories would announce that they had come to a reluctant conclusion.
David Blunkett was all talk and no action.

It now seems as if there was no trap. The new shadow Home Secretary, David
Davis, has certainly made no attempt to spring it. It is not clear what Mr Davis
has been doing. Perhaps someone should tell him that the Septennial Act was
repealed many years ago and he should not be planning for an election in 2008.
Few opposition spokesmen have had a better opportunity than the one offered to
Mr Davis. Few if any have seemed so reluctant to exploit it.

There are reports that Michael Howard is planning a pre-manifesto exercise for
the party conference season and that he does intend to energise the Tories'
policy presentation. He will need to do something. As Walter Raleigh once wrote
in a note to Elizabeth I: "Tarry not, Madam, for the wings of time are tipped
with the feathers of death." If the Tories do not raise their wing beat
dramatically between September and December, another electoral death will be
inevitable.

Despite the by-elections, that is not yet the case, for a number of reasons. In
the first place, we are no longer dealing with a unified electoral battle. Last
week's two constituencies were only representative of one of the three contests
which are now taking place; that in the inner cities, between Labour and the
Liberals. But there is also the Labour-Tory contest in the suburbs of the
smaller towns of the Midlands, Lancashire and Yorkshire, plus the Tory-Liberal
struggle in the South and South-west. In those two, the Tories may be in better
shape than Thursday's results would suggest.

We must also acknowledge the real winner on Thursday: abstention and
disillusionment. All three parties made a lot of effort, especially in
Leicester, which was one of the most publicised by-elections of all time. Some
windows even sprouted notices: "No more political leaflets, please." Yet barely
over 40 per cent could be bothered to vote.

At that level of abstention, there are new rules, and it is dangerous to make
predictions more appropriate to the days when around three-quarters of the
electorate used to go to the polling booth. Can we assume a continuing drop in
turn-out, which has already fallen from 77 per cent in 1992 to 59 per cent last
time? On last week's evidence, that possibility cannot be dismissed. But can we
be sure that all the ex-voters have left the political market place for ever?
Might they not be galvanised to return? If so, it would be unlikely that they
would support Tony Blair.

Up in the hills of politics, there is a lot of water whose destination is
unclear. If some attractive water-course appeared, Tory or Liberal, it might
rush down hill. It might also turn into a grumbling bog. Some of it will find
its way to minor parties; on present trends, the BNP, Respect and UKIP could
account for one-eighth of the vote at the next election.

On present trends, Mr Blair ought to win again. But what percentage of the
electorate is now enthusiastic at the prospect of a third Blair term, as opposed
to acquiescent or unable to see an alternative? I would be surprised if it were
higher than 15 per cent. There is a lot of volatility. An electorate which is so
fickle, aggrieved and sceptical gives all parties grounds for hope, and alarm.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              115 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

Chirac offers France a vote, and Blair a refuge

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1330 words


THE TREATY on the European Constitution was difficult enough to negotiate. It
will be even more difficult to get ratified. Tony Blair originally had no
intention of letting the British voters decide. On April 20 he changed his mind,
and announced that there would be a referendum, but not until after the next
general election.

One of his reasons for changing his mind was that he feared the outcome if he
fought the European elections in June on the basis of a continued refusal to
hold a referendum.

That fear was justified. In the event, the Labour vote in the European election
was only 22.6 per cent, the lowest vote Labour had won in any national election
since 1918. If Mr Blair had fought the European election on a "no referendum"
platform, the result would presumably have been even worse.

At that time, Jacques Chirac, the President of France, was still in doubt
whether he should hold a referendum. The alternative was to ratify the treaty
through the French Parliament. Last Wednesday, July 14, he made his annual
Bastille Day broadcast to the nation, and announced that he indeed would hold a
referendum.

France will vote in the second half of 2005; if the verdict is "no", that will
probably be an end of the matter. If France votes "yes", then the British
referendum will be held at some time in 2006.

On Friday Gerhard Schroder, the Chancellor of Germany, took his turn to make an
announcement, in an interview with the Financial Times, a sturdily Europhile
newspaper. He said that he would "jumpstart" the process of ratification and
would secure German parliamentary approval before the end of the year.

If this sequence is successful, Germany will therefore ratify in 2004, France in
2005 and Britain in 2006. The idea seems to be to create momentum by moving from
the most integrationist country through a deeply nationalist one to the most
Eurosceptic country. The hope must be that the momentum will be strong enough by
2006 to carry even British opinion.

The first difficulty is that German ratification, though inevitable, will not be
a popular endorsement. The German public probably would vote for the
constitution, if it were given a vote, though they might not have voted to lose
the deutschemark when Germany decided to join the euro. But it will not have a
vote.

As Herr Schroder told the Financial Times: "The German Constitution does not
allow for a referendum. We will have a parliamentary process." It must be
doubtful whether a parliamentary ratification by Germany will create the
momentum needed to make French voters enthusiastic for ratification.

The public opinion polls, at this stage, are much more favourable to the
constitution in France than in Britain. French polls suggest that there is a
current majority of about 10 per cent for the treaty, though the French have
barely started to think about the details of the constitution. In Britain, where
there has been more debate, the polls suggest that the "no" campaign has at
least a 2-1 majority. The European elections were extremely bad for the pro
constitution parties -for the Liberal Democrats, who came fourth, as well as for
Labour.

The French referendum is harder to forecast. The French political class is
powerful and largely Europhile, but the electorate is more nationalist. "La
France profonde" has always been suspicious of the sacrifice of national
independence, as was President de Gaulle himself. The Maastricht treaty was
ratified with a majority of only about 2 per cent in the French referendum.
There are also French voters who feel that the treaty sabotages their idea of a
social Europe, free from the influence of Adam Smith's economics and the
Anglo-Saxon culture of the United States and Britain. For some French voters,
the treaty is simply too integrationist; for others it is integrationist in the
wrong way.

The greatest difficulty may be M Chirac's extreme unpopularity. In his own party
he is seen as a politician in decline; the rising star, who would like to take
his place, is the Finance Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, younger, more energetic and
sharper-minded than the ageing President. On the Left the Socialist Party which
would probably have been quite willing to negotiate such a treaty itself -is
wriggling to find ways of opposing the President. Its weakness is equally
tempting to his rivals and to the Opposition.

In Britain, about 35 per cent of the votes in the European election were cast
for minority parties. Almost the same proportion were cast for minority parties
in France, including Communists, Trotskyites, Fascists, and the old Right. All
of these parties can be described as extreme Eurosceptics, for one reason or
another.

Minority parties will be voting "no".

The clearest measure of President Chirac's unpopularity has been the regional
elections held in the spring of this year. The President's group won only a
single region, Alsace. There is a real possibility that any referendum sponsored
by M Chirac would be voted down, simply because he supported it.

President Chirac does not like or admire Tony Blair; he regards him as a young
upstart who has no proper respect for the greater wisdom of his elders. They
have "had words". Yet he has done our Prime Minister a very good turn. Mr Blair
probably does not mind about the constitution one way or the other, except as an
influence on his prospects of re-election to a third term. He did not originally
want a constitution; he did not pay much attention in the early stages; he must
know it is a botched job; he certainly knows it is unpopular. So far as he is
concerned, the treaty is an embarrassment which makes his life more difficult.
He cannot disown it but he could well do without it.

President Chirac's decision to hold a referendum gives Mr Blair this advantage:
it will help to make the constitution seem remote from reality at the time of
the next election. It will allow Mr Blair to repeat the trick he played on
William Hague over the euro in 2001.

Then he persuaded the voters that the euro, on which many had strong views, was
too distant an issue to bother about. Thanks to Gordon Brown, it has even proved
to be so. It was in the category of "not this year, not next year, perhaps some
time, perhaps never". Now there is a French referendum, which may well vote
"no", and a British referendum coming after that; the European constitution may
seem to be another remote and implausible hypothesis to voters in a 2005 general
election.

One of the Prime Minister's cherished principles is that you should never give a
sucker an even break. If you are in power, you should never allow the Opposition
a popular issue, and the Conservative policy on Europe is popular.

The Prime Minister cannot, I think, win a constitutional referendum, because the
British are lions when it comes to fighting for their independence. Yet he may
throw enough dust in our eyes to win another election. I suspect that his third
term may be as much below his second in quality as his second has fallen below
his first.

History moves on. In 1992 the British were bored by the Tories; by 1997 they had
become explosively contemptuous of John Major's Government; in 2001 they had not
changed their mind; however, they are now increasingly reluctant to vote for the
Labour Party. Indeed, this year they have voted for almost anyone else, for the
Conservatives in local and European elections, also for the UKIP in European
elections, and for the Lib Dems in by-elections.

There will come a time when the British voters again want a Conservative
government; they're already becoming tired of a Labour one. The values of the
Right, as well as those of the Left, succeed in politics because they are
permanent attributes of human nature. At present the Prime Minister is fighting
an essentially defensive battle. He wants to retain office, but his power is
ebbing away. He is fighting to postpone the inevitable.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 18, 2004

Review: LIVING: THE STALKER: PEOPLE: PREMIERES: PARTIES

SECTION: Observer Review Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Q&A Colin Dexter

Favourite film The most satisfying film I have seen is The African Queen .

Books The greatest novel in English literature is Bleak House and the greatest
collection of poetry is by AE Housman. Favourite literary character is
Chandler's Philip Marlowe.

TV I watch very little, but I think Ronnie Barker is the best comic. I remember
The Boys from the Blackstuff . Very poignant and moving. I occasionally watch
Inspector Morse .

Theatre The last time I went was about five years ago. Ken Dodd was in Oxford
and he gave me tickets to his show. He also gave me a tickling stick.

Radio I've been listening to The Archers since 1953.

Newspapers My favourite magazine is The Oldie . It's an excellent monthly. The
Observer on Sunday and the Times every day of the week; I take it for the
crossword and the letters. I never read the Daily Mail , it is too obnoxious.

Website I don't have a computer, I write everything by hand.

Favourite building King's College Chapel, Cambridge.

Guilty pleasure Locked up in my study on my own listening to Wagner, drinking a
single malt scotch. That's a little taste of heaven.

An Audience with Colin Dexter, Harrogate Crime Writing Festival, 24 July. 01423
537230

He's talking out of his hat

Stalker has a soft spot for sexy, carrot-topped thesp Damian Lewis, but may we
put in a plea? Drop the hats. Damian's recent crimes against millinery include
camouflage caps, beanies and balaclavas. And, spotted last week at London's
Latchmere Theatre, watching a preview of female comedy troupe the Bearded
Ladies, he was sporting the most peculiar cream corduroy beret. Not the best way
to stay incognito.

My new BF Robert Kilroy-Silk and Boy George

The unlikely pair bumped into each other while strolling on Hampstead Heath at
the weekend. Boy George claims he's had a 20-year crush on the ex-TV presenter.
So what will they be talking about?

a) The Butler report

b) The Ukip summer party

c) Signing up for I'm A Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here!

Here comes the best Bunny in show

The hottest-selling ticket on the Edinburgh Festival Fringe so far is a show
called Patricia Quinn Saved My Life , inspired by the life of the flame-haired
diva Lady Stephens (widow of the great actor Sir Robert Stephens). The show
celebrates Quinn's three greatest roles: as Magenta in The Rocky Horror Show ;
her early career as a Playboy Bunny; and her life as consort to the debonair,
hard-drinking Stephens. In fact, the real Pat is planning to put in an
appearance at Edinburgh - to sign autographs and, no doubt, steal the show.

Does that boy sure know how to pick 'em

For such a smart and edgy comedian, Little Britain 's David Walliams certainly
has an interesting taste in women. Not very long after he split up with Patsy
Kensit, he was seen in the comely arms of Lisa Snowden. But after she dumped him
in favour of George Clooney (again), he found consolation with Corrie babe
Suranne Jones. Now, however, we can exclusively reveal the identity of his new
squeeze: John Leslie's ex, Abi Titmuss.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 18, 2004

OMM: REVIEW YOUR GUIDE TO MUSIC IN ALL ITS FORMS 'Topknot' by Cornershop: song
of the month

BYLINE: Garry Mulholland

SECTION: Observer Music Magazine, Pg. 47

LENGTH: 266 words


IT'S A heartwarming thing, Britain's new-found love of Asian culture. Back in
the Seventies 'Paki-bashing' was the accepted after-pub sport of the dumb and
disfranchised and it's taken 30 years of insult and defiance, of 'Ever So
Lonely' hitmakers Monsoon, of Bollywood, bhangra, Talvin Singh, the Kumars and
East is East - and, of course, of the Asian-owned corner shop - to reach a point
where Indian culture is just another vital part of the British way of life. But
only one group has persisted in purveying that culture by way of guitar-based
indie pop. And after 17 years of agitation and innovation Cornershop are still
one of England's greatest bands.

This one-off single (their first for Rough Trade) sees Tjinder Singh, Ben Ayres
and guest vocalist Bubbley Kaur present a genuinely beautiful take on Punjabi
folk, backdropped by a loping funk beat and breathtakingly lovely guitar. Kaur
sings in Punjabi but relates a tale familiar to anyone who loves classic girl
group pop. There's this guy, see, who's the hottest thing since green chillis,
and Kaur wants him, but knows she faces stiff girl competition, and suspects
he'll break her heart anyway. 'Don't betray the girls,' she pleads, but we
suspect her sisterly solidarity is all in vain.

'Topknot' is the perfect sonic antidote to a summer dominated by fat meatheads
waving the flag of St George and the sad, jingoistic success of Ukip. But then,
as the 2-Tone movement and Rock Against Racism proved in the bad old Seventies,
music remains sweet reason's greatest weapon.

'Topknot' is released on 26 July


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 18, 2004

KILROY'S BRITAIN; KILROY, VOICE OF THE PEOPLE FLIES THE FLAG FOR BRITAIN

BYLINE: HILARY DOUGLAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1044 words


Next week we will be launching a compelling new series, Kilroy's Britain. Over
the coming months Sunday Express columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk will bring you his
unique insight into the people who make this country great. Here he tells HILARY
DOUGLAS about his vision for Britain as a newly elected MEP and the issues and
people he believes really matter

HE WAS dubbed the king of daytime TV with his 18-year run on his talk show
Kilroy, which quickly established itself as the highest-rated BBC morning show,
regularly attracting more than 1.2 million viewers.

Now, at the age of 61, Robert Kilroy-Silk is about to begin a new career as a
Member of the European Parliament. He has vowed to fight fraud, waste and
corruption at the heart of the community and grab power back for Britain.

Kilroy, a member of the United Kingdom Independence Party, says:

"I'd been a Labour MP for 13 years before I started presenting Kilroy, but I
felt more in touch with British public opinion during my years doing Kilroy than
when I was a member of Parliament.

"That was because of the volume of people coming through the studio every day. I
was broadcasting 220 days a year with around 250,000 people in the entire
period, up to 100 people on those shows every day.

"The most important thing was that they were from every part of the country.
When I had my constituency I saw only people from Liverpool but on Kilroy I saw
people from everywhere from all backgrounds, all creeds, all colours and all
ages - a real cross-section of society.

"We always discussed the main issue of the day. If we were talking about miners,
then we would have miners on the show, not people who wrote books or articles
about them.

"They resented and felt bitter about being made to feel embarrassed or ashamed
about their love of their country and that they could not take pride in its
traditions.

"Very often they would say things, and then in a whisper turn to me and say:
'Can we say that?' A lack of understanding of real people, and a feeling that
the politicians did not listen to them was an all too common complaint. It was
very clear how separated they felt from the politicians.

"There was a big disconnection about what people in this country felt about
politics. I knew that there was a gap and that many politicians did not
understand this gap.

"This disclosed itself in a very big way in just the first few days on the
campaign trail for Ukip. They really resented political correctness. They saw it
as harmful and hated being told what to say. They resented not being able to
celebrate Christmas or fly the flag without being criticised.

"They actually said to me that I said what they thought and that I had the
courage to say how they were actually thinking and that they hated feeling like
this.

"Everywhere we went there were Arabs, Asians, Indians, Muslims, it didn't
matter. They were all British and proud to be British. It was the ethnic
minorities who were saying to me: 'Even if we're not Christians, we don't have a
problem with British traditions and culture.'

"One Arab man came up to me right in front of the TV cameras, put his arms
around me and said: 'I am an Arab and I want you to know I support this man
because I'm British too'.

"The Americans can stand there and wave their flags with their hands on their
hearts and sing their national anthem, yet we're ridiculed. There was also the
great chasm between people and the politicians which is probably a lot to do
with Blair and the war in Iraq. They just don't trust politicians any more.

"People don't feel their concerns are being taken into account and there is no
conversation between them and the metropolitan elite that is running the
country.

"We had Kilroy programmes with relatives of the soldiers who died in this last
war. The reaction was so different to those who, say, had lost loved ones after
the Falklands War.

"Falklands widows and fathers and mothers were obviously very sad to have lost
their sons and fathers, but they were proud and at least felt they died for a
just cause.

"But this one, the mothers and fathers of soldiers killed didn't feel the war
had been justified in the most part, so it was even worse.

"A lot of the journalists who came on the campaign trail with me for the Euro
elections admitted they were genuinely surprised when they heard what people's
views were on immigration, asylum and Europe.

"I had found over the years that no matter where people were from in Britain, no
matter what their political views, they all wanted to be fair, that's a very
British thing "I saw many emotive issues discussed on Kilroy, some were almost
too unbearable to talk about, like the show talking to widowed fathers
struggling to bring up children.

"There was this tough man with tattoos all over his arms who admitted for the
first time that he cried every day for the wife he had lost. He couldn't believe
that the studio was filled with men in similar positions, all equally upset and
emotional.

"Then there was the woman who took on the yobs on her estate, campaigning for
anti-social behaviour orders to get rid of the thugs. Her brave actions turned
that estate around.

"For this new Sunday Express series I want to interview real people, the world
is full of them but they don't get the accolades they deserve.

"They are the people who have made a big difference to the quality of life of
other people. It's the doctor or the charity worker who went abroad to help
others.

"They are the people who don't get the honours, the OBEs, but have instead gone
about their business in a quiet, unassuming way.

"This is essentially a British thing, people setting out to help others but not
expecting a pat on the back.

These are the people I want to pay tribute to in this new series.

"Middlesbrough Mayor Ray Mallon is a perfect example. As a senior detective he
introduced American-style zero tolerance techniques to tackling crime. He really
made a difference to the local people living in the community."

Dubbed "Robocop" for his no nonsense approach to fighting crime, Mr Mallon
recruited a security force of 70 street wardens, following his election as mayor
on a landslide vote.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              119 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 18, 2004, Sunday

Mr Howard, unfortunately, is not the Opposition leader The country - even those
who would never dream of voting Labour - is split between Blairite and Brownite

BYLINE: by MATTHEW d'ANCONA

SECTION: Features; Comment:Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1285 words

Mr Howard, unfortunately, is not the Opposition leader The country The
Conservative Party did indeed finish third in last week's political contests -
third, that is, behind the Blairites and the Brownites. After seven days of
drama at Westminster, opinions differ as to whether the Prime Minister or the
Chancellor is ahead in the increasingly bitter Downing Street derby. But that,
rather than the relative positions of Labour and the Tories, is the true
question of the moment. To put it another way: the most immediate problem facing
Michael Howard is that so many people consider Gordon Brown to be the leader of
the Opposition.

Last weekend, The Sunday Telegraph disclosed that the Prime Minister's wife had
urged him not to resign, reporting the claim of one senior Blairite that "Cherie
was not going to allow Gordon to take over this early. She can't stand him." On
Monday, the Chancellor delivered his fourth spending review with formidable
confidence - although that did not prevent a close ally of the Prime Minister
alleging to me, with a smile that one could hear down the telephone line, that
Mr Brown's statement had been given "a very mixed reception". On Wednesday, Mr
Blair was deeply embarrassed, but not politically mutilated by the Butler
Report. The next day, Labour lost the Leicester South by-election, but clung on
to Birmingham Hodge Hill.

Let us tot up the scores on the doors of Numbers 10 and 11. There are those in
the Labour Party (such as Geraldine Smith, the MP for Morecambe and Lunesdale)
who insist that Mr Blair is now "fatally damaged", and should step aside to give
Mr Brown his chance. In contrast, the Prime Minister's supporters describe the
past week as a "survival course" which their man has cleared with barely a
scratch. Like Nietzsche, they believe that what does not destroy you makes you
stronger.

What is so striking is that this factional battle is not by any means confined
to the Labour Party and the Commons tea-rooms. One encounters it everywhere, in
the columns of the press, in the boardrooms of the City, in dinner party
conversation and in supermarket chit-chat ("I do like that Mr Brown. You know
where you are with him" etc). I am reminded of Disraeli's "Two Nations", or the
distinction in 1066 and All That between Royalists ("Wrong but Wromantic") and
Roundheads ("Right but Repulsive"). The country - even those who would never
dream of voting Labour - is now split between Blairite and Brownite.

The split is not straightforward, or explicable in terms of the old Left-Right
divide. The Brownite position, for a start, encompasses a very broad range of
opinion. On Tuesday, the Daily Mail declared on its front page that "An
all-powerful Gordon Brown staked his claim to the Labour throne yesterday . . .
revelling in the awesome sway he holds over every Whitehall department." With no
less fervour, the latest issue of the Left-wing magazine Tribune says that "Mr
Brown's performance at the Despatch Box served to remind his colleagues who the
biggest political heavyweight in Downing Street is."

Right-wing Brownites - including many natural Tory voters - tend to be allergic
to Mr Blair's perma-grin and drawn to the Chancellor's graver manner; they see
in Mr Brown a fellow Eurosceptic, a committed monetarist, an homme serieux
unafflicted by the Prime Minister's messianic visions. In many cases, those on
the Right who find the Chancellor appealing also believe that he would end Mr
Blair's adventurism in overseas conflicts.

Left-wing Brownites, on the other hand, are convinced (against all the available
evidence) that the Chancellor would ditch the "New Labour" project and restore
the party's old-fashioned socialist priorities. This caucus comprises those who
instinctively prefer the purity of opposition, internal or otherwise, to the
debasing compromises of power. It goes without saying that the Labour Left would
be the first to turn on Mr Brown if he actually became Prime Minister.

The Blairite tendency, on the other hand, includes those of all parties (and
none) who think that, on balance, the Iraq war was justified; those Thatcherites
who still see something of the Iron Lady's style in the Prime Minister's
presidentialism; those who are impressed that Mr Blair cuts so much ice around
the world that John Kerry cited him last week as the acme of international
statesmanship; and (perhaps above all) those who think the Tories will not win
the next election, and conclude that Mr Blair is the best hope the middle
classes have for the foreseeable future. This coalition, though less noisy than
it was in 1997, remains impressively broad.

Entertaining though it is to divide the nation along such lines, this is much
more than a parlour game. It reflects one of the greatest obstacles to the
Conservative revival over which Mr Howard has presided. The Tory leader has
improved the organisation of his party beyond recognition; he has assembled an
outstanding team around him; he has resisted the temptation to make demotic
noises about Europe, asylum or immigration, commendably distinguishing himself
from the spivvish wreckers of the UK Independence Party. The Conservatives
performed well in the local and European elections last month. What Mr Howard
has yet to do is to persuade the public that the best prospects for a change of
government lie outside the Labour Party. The paradox of the Blair-Brown split is
that it has eclipsed all else in British politics: deeply destructive as it has
been to the governance of the country, this all-consuming rivalry has also
nurtured the impression that power now resides exclusively within the Labour
movement, oscillating between its mighty factions.

Indeed, the greatest strategic error the Conservatives have made since Mr Howard
became leader is to adopt the slogan "Vote Blair, Get Brown". The idea was to
focus attention upon the Prime Minister's slipperiness, to suggest that he was
concealing from the public his secret intention to resign midway through his
third term, and to encourage tension between the Blair and Brown camps. But the
practical impact of this slogan has been to reinforce the sense that a change of
government does not necessarily require a change of party. The Tories are doing
Labour's work for them.

It is surprising that Mr Howard, of all people, should have embraced this
slogan. As a Cabinet Minister, he saw at first hand how successfully his own
party presented the replacement of Margaret Thatcher with John Major as
full-blown regime change, thus wrecking Neil Kinnock's prospects in the 1992
election. As Shadow Chancellor, Mr Howard was always wary of contrasting Mr
Blair with Mr Brown, arguing that to do so played into Labour's hands (it was
he, for instance, who formulated the Tory claim that the Prime Minister and
Chancellor were merely playing "good cop / bad cop" over the euro). Now, under
his leadership, the Tories are doing precisely what he advised Iain Duncan Smith
against. "Vote Blair, Get Brown": it is the political equivalent of "Buy One,
Get One Free."

There is a whiff of the 18th-century "Whig Ascendancy" to politics at the
moment, in that the divisions that count for most are still those within one
party rather than between one party and another. Mr Howard has undoubtedly given
the Tories back their self-respect; now he prepares for what will amount, after
the summer, to the launch of the election campaign. There are, indeed, a great
many voters who believe it is time for a change, who long for a new Prime
Minister. They know there is a candidate straining at the leash, primed and
waiting for his moment. Alas for Mr Howard, he is not yet the candidate most of
them have in mind.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              120 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 18, 2004, Sunday

Mission impossible? The aristocrat trying to get France to reject Europe Former
minister invokes Margaret Thatcher as he seeks to capitalise on disillusionment
over EU

BYLINE: BY KIM WILLSHER in Paris

SECTION: News; International:Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

THE ARISTOCRATIC Philippe de Villiers is a man on a seemingly impossible
mission: to persuade the French to turn their backs on the European Union, the
institution they helped to found and have been at the heart of for more than
half a century.

Last week, his dream became closer to reality when President Jacques Chirac
finally announced he would hold a national referendum on the proposed European
constitution before the end of next year.

"I have my work cut out but in the next 18 months I will not stop. I will travel
the length and breadth of France until I am exhausted on my feet to persuade
people to vote no," Mr de Villiers, a French MP and former government minister,
told The Sunday Telegraph.

"The Europe of Brussels has no future. It is finished."

On his country-wide crusade, Mr de Villiers, 55, a staunch Catholic, royalist
and Anglophile, will bear the words of one leading British Eurosceptic very much
in mind. "I had the very good fortune to meet Mrs Thatcher once in London," he
revealed. "We talked about Europe and I remember very clearly what she told me.
It was after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and she said, 'We have not escaped
the totalitarianism of commissioners from the east to fall under the
totalitarianism of commissioners from the west'.

"It is true. The Europe of today is rigid, centralised, uniform and
authoritarian."

The first step on Mr de Villiers's long road to convince the French to say "non"
comes tomorrow when he will meet British Eurosceptics, including members of the
UK Independence Party. Anti-Europe campaigners from Poland, the Czech Republic
and Denmark are also expected to attend the meeting in Strasbourg. It aims to
co-ordinate individual national "no" campaigns and to establish a Europe-wide
anti-constitution bloc.

The Vicomte Le Jolis de Saintignon, to use his full title, has been a member of
the Assemblee Nationale since 1986 and is also president of the regional
authority in the Vendee, in western France. His political party, Mouvement Pour
La France, founded in 1994, gained more than 13 per cent of the votes in the
1999 European elections, its best showing to date.

However, in the recent European vote, it scored just 6.67 per cent - a decline
that Mr de Villiers attributes to voter apathy. About 57 per cent of the
electorate stayed away from the polling booths.

"Everyone has the impression that the French are very europhile, when in fact
there is a very deep vein of anti-Europe feeling," he said. "The problem is that
because France doesn't have a Eurosceptic media, unlike in the UK, there is no
debate and people have no way of expressing this dissatisfaction."

For France's Eurosceptics, this is the first chance to rally anti-European
sentiment since the national referendum on the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. It was
only narrowly approved, with fewer than 51 per cent of voters in favour.

Since then, there has been a sense of growing disillusionment with the EU.
France's failure to keep its economy within the Europe-wide Stability and Growth
Pact has led to unpopular public spending cuts. The introduction of the euro has
not led to the promised growth and increased employment and has, many believe,
pushed up prices. In the recent European elections, Mr Chirac's ruling
pro-Europe UMP party suffered a humiliating defeat, gaining just 17 per cent of
the vote.

The constitution is also dividing political parties. Publicly, the UMP party
favours ratification but privately, backing for the constitution is far from
unanimous. France's Socialist Party has yet to announce whether it will call for
a "yes" vote, while some members have expressed deep dissatisfaction with the
document.

Jean-Marie Le Pen's Right-wing Front National is opposed to it, while at the
other extreme of the political spectrum, the Communist Party is also calling for
a "no" vote.

Mark Croucher, of the UKIP, said that his party would work with the French "no"
campaign, but admitted that he was not optimistic Mr de Villiers would succeed.
"We will give them as much help and advice as they ask for, but it's for the
French people to decide and not us," he said.

"Undoubtedly what will happen in France is that there will be huge funds thrown
into an official campaign pointing out the benefits of European membership,
while the 'no' campaign struggles on doing what it can without a great many
resources. As a result, France is the country where we are least likely to see a
fair referendum."

Mr de Villiers refuses to be beaten before he has even started. "I am
campaigning to explain to the French that we already have a constitution - that
of the Fifth Republic," he said. "There are plenty of other problems to sort out
rather than replacing that constitution with new European rules which will
establish a bureaucratic superstate."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              121 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 17, 2004

March of the minorities

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words


FROM the moment New Labour came to power in May 1997 until the autumn of last
year, it did not lose a single by-election. For a government to have remained so
impervious to protest votes for six years was a record unmatched since the
1950s.

However, the trouncing in Leicester South at the hands of the Liberal Democrats
which followed the loss of Brent East in a by-election last September has put an
end to that winning streak.

But is Thursday's defeat the devastating blow to Mr Blair that his opponents are
making out?

Perhaps the most crucial factor is that, despite its bruised ego, Labour has yet
to lose a by-election to the Conservatives.

It is not good enough for the Tories to dismiss constituencies such as Leicester
South and Birmingham Hodge Hill as 'not our territory'. In 1967 they won
Leicester South in a by-election and held the costituency from 1983 to 1987. In
1977 they won Hodge Hill from Labour in a byelection.

With Michael Howard's party now coming a bad third in both seats, the Tories are
in very poor shape.

Yet before the Blairites take comfort from their opponents' misery, they should
consider the fact that the Conser-By David Butler Election analyst and Fellow of
Nuffield College, Oxford vative share of the vote only fell by three per cent in
Thursday's polls, while Labour's share fell by 26 per cent.

Of course this does not mean the pattern would be repeated in a general
election. To overturn the Labour majority at the next general election, the
Tories would require a 10 per cent increase in their voting share. Nothing this
week suggests this is yet within their grasp.

As for the Liberal Democrats, Thursday's results will certainly bring in money
and recruits. But that does not mean that we are likely to see any long-term
breakthrough.

For Charles Kennedy's party to get into the top league, he needs far more than
the 40 or so seats where they are currently seriously challengers.

The truth is that, for all the fanfare and political jeering, this week's
Midlands byelections have not altered the status quo in any significant way.

There is one trend in the political landscape, however, that could herald
change: the emergence of minor parties.

In June's European elections, for the first time in a nationwide vote, the two
biggest parties shared less than 50 per cent of the votes. The British people
seem increasingly willing to look outside the established parties.

Although the UK Independence Party ducked out of this week's by-elections, they
were a formidable presence in the European elections.

At the other end of the spectrum, candidates from George Galloway's Leftwing
antiwar party Respect drew an impressive 12 per cent of the votes in Leicester
and six per cent in Birmingham.

As old party loyalties weaken, there is certainly scope for any remotely
credible and well- organised force to make an impact on a national level,
especially when turnout is low.

And here, too, is another long-term trend. There can seldom have been harder
fought by-elections than those on Thursday, with the party machines straining
every muscle in the fight.

Scores of MPs and frontbenchers rushed to the Midlands. Yet, despite all this
effort only 40 per cent of the electorate bothered to vote.

The public is not just turned off the established parties; it seems to be turned
off politics altogether.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              122 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 17, 2004

Beware the chameleon's true colours

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: ED_1ST_LTV; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1056 words


BY-ELECTIONS are a notoriously unreliable guide to the future. They are not
representative of the country as a whole, the turnout is usually low and the Lib
Dems usually win.

All this would seem typical of Thursday's two contests. Normally, the two main
parties could console themselves that things will return to normal come the
General Election. This time I have my doubts.

Both Labour and the Tories should heed a clear message from the results in
Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill.

For the Government, it is that Mr Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq on the
basis of a lie is costing his party dear. The truth is he has lost credibility
and is no longer an electoral asset, especially in inner-city seats with large
ethnic minority populations.

For the Tories, the message is, if anything, worse. They flooded both
constituencies with MPs and made huge efforts to drum up votes. But they
achieved nothing. After a change of leader and various new policies, their whole
strategy appears flawed.

As for the Lib Dems, one of the reasons they prosper is because of their
chameleon-like qualities. In a seat such as Leicester South, they can point out
their opposition to the Iraq war, thereby appealing to Muslim voters.

However, whenever they fight rural by-elections, they reorder their policy
priorities and emphasise their green credentials.

Although Charles Kennedy's party remains a huge threat in Tory heartlands--
particularly with UKIP still menacing the Conservative vote - it also has the
power to tear through natural Labour territory, as these two by-elections have
shown.

In rural England, the Lib Dems offer themselves as a moderate alternative to the
Tories for those people who could never bring themselves to vote Labour.

But, in urban seats, they are the new Leftwing, radical party.

Indeed, one former Tory Cabinet minister joked to me the other day that in the
event of a hung Parliament, the natural coalition would be between the
Conservatives and Labour, as the two Centre-Right parties.

The Tories must revive support in urban areas - where they are currently nowhere
- if they are to stand any chance of getting back into power. Also, they must
start to take on the Lib Dems effectively. Ignoring them is clearly not the
answer.

This means Michael Howard making some high-profile speeches devoted to the Lib
Dems' contradictions, hypocrisies, opportunism, incoherence and lack of
experience.

It means, for example, his reminding rural voters that the Lib Dems' devotion to
Europe will finish off agriculture and telling urban voters that regeneration
can come only with enterprise, not with higher taxes and state handouts.

Mr Howard still has the best part of a year to turn this round.

Otherwise, the Lib Dems will establish themselves as big players after the next
General Election - and the only coalition that is likely to rule Britain
thereafter will be one of the increasingly hard Left.

s.heffer@dailymail.co.uk

A COUPLE of days after a Labour-controlled Commons committee called for the
torpedoing of a thousand years of history by abolishing knighthoods, the Defence
Secretary prepares to abolish centuries-old regiments with glorious battle
honours.

This New Labour hatred of our past is not just irritating. Given the sacrifices
which the Government expects of our brave and dedicated soldiers in Iraq, it's
downright offensive.

NO MARTYRS HERE, PLEASE

I DEPLORE the British National Party - but it would be highly dangerous to
prosecute its leader, Nick Griffin, for making hostile remarks about the Muslim
faith. As I wrote here last week, such people are entitled to their opinions,
however offensive others might find them. More to the point, putting Mr Griffin
in the dock would make him a martyr, boost recruitment to his party and make the
authorities look stupid.

NORMALLY I would reject the thought of televising court proceedings, to avoid
their becoming a circus. However, since the events surrounding the death of
Diana, Princess of Wales already are one, I suppose no further harm could come
of televising the inquest into her death. Also, it is time to lay to rest the
silly suggestions that she was killed by MI6 or the Duke of Edinburgh - and
perhaps a public hearing can achieve that.

THOSE who advocate extending full legal rights to unmarried heterosexual couples
claim that this would not harm the institution of marriage.What nonsense! If
cohabiting couples can enjoy full inheritance, pension and property rights, only
the devoutly religious or the eccentric would get married. And the baleful
effect on society of the single-parent households that would proliferate would
far outweigh any 'rights'won by common-law spouses.

I FEEL bad about the most troubling statistic of the week, that lunch for the
average worker lasts a mere 27 minutes. I fear that my own lunches are so long -
in the cause of research, of course - and so much in excess of the average that
everyone else must be having only ten minutes.

IN THEIR Bastille Day honours list this week, the French gave their equivalent
of a knighthood, the Legion d'Honneur, to their oldest surviving Great War
soldier, for no other reason than that he has lived to be 106. We have, I
believe, barely a dozen World War I veterans still alive. Wouldn't it be
imaginative, and rather wonderful, for them all to be knighted instead of us
squandering our high honours on undeserving ham actors and pop stars?

A failure of intelligence

As tactfully as he could, Lord Butler pointed out in his report this week the
mistakes made by John Scarlett, the new head of MI6, in his former role as
chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee over the 'dodgy' Iraq dossier.

Lord Butler suggested that these errors should not prevent Mr Scarlett taking up
his new post.

I disagree. Everyone says Mr Scarlett is 'brilliant' and thus indispensable.

Well, he wasn't brilliant enough to prevent himself from being corrupted by the
Downing Street machine and thoroughly politicised.

That alone makes him unsuitable to run MI6.

Equally, his newly acquired public profile is highly undesirable for one in that
sensitive post.

If he's so clever, he should be able to appreciate the importance of standing
down right away.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              123 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 17, 2004, Saturday

country diary

BYLINE: by ROBIN PAGE

SECTION: Weekend Pg. 14

LENGTH: 724 words

In my last diary, I reported how

I had written to the great Lord Whitty - "call me Larry" - Minister for Food,
Farming and Sustainable Energy, on March 24, and, two months later, still had
not received a reply. Well, hallelujah, not only have I heard from Lord Whitty
once, but I have heard from him twice - exactly the same letter, both by
first-class mail. My only regret is that I did not hear from him in triplicate.

Sadly, he has declined the offer of a visit to the Countryside Restoration
Trust's Lark Rise Farm, but the letter was quite helpful in guiding me around
the Government maze known as Defra - the Department for the Elimination of
Farming and Rural Affairs.

Lord Whitty is a lucky man - he is not a people's peer, he is a political
placement peer. His peerage was a reward for a loyal life as a TUC official and
General Secretary of the Labour Party. So, on a scale of one to 10, Lord
Whitty's democracy rating must be zero. One of the most powerful men in rural
affairs is unelected and, as far as I can see, had no previous interest in the
countryside or agriculture.

Quite unlike Lord Whitty, I have just faced an election and been re-elected as a
genuine "independent" district councillor for a 34th year on South
Cambridgeshire District Council; what a glutton for punishment. I also just
missed out becoming UKIP's 13th MEP. It was a good thing really - election would
have meant reorganising the farmyard to allow the gravy train to pull in.

This year I was opposed by the Tories, Lib Dems and the Greens; sadly the
potential Labour candidate completed his nomination paper wrongly and was
disqualified from standing. It was good beating the Tories and the Lib Dems. In
the past the Tories have said: "We won't stand this year as we want you to beat
the Lib Dems," and on another occasion the Lib Dems have said: "We won't stand
this year as we want you to beat the Tories," so it was a pleasure to satisfy
both parties.

Ironically, I have, over the years, been asked to stand as a Tory, a Lib Dem and
a UKIP-ite - but I believe people should be put before politics at local level;
it sounds trite, but it is true.

And what have I achieved in 34 years? I am sad to say that the honest answer is
very little. I have possibly slowed down development a fraction and irritated
the local political establishments, and that is about it. I have had several
gallant failures, such as the council not sitting in the evenings so that more
people can stand for election, and failing to get solar panels fitted on the
roofs of all new houses; that was 20 years ago. Setting an example to help save
the planet was considered to be too expensive.

The changes I have seen in local government have been alarming. When first
elected, in my twenties, there was a genuine feeling of "public service" among
the councillors. Now that councillors are paid, it seems to be attracting more
political hacks, jobsworths and those wanting pin money to supplement their
pensions.

In addition, individual councillors have less and less influence as Mr Blair's
local-government reforms are implemented and the Office of the Deputy Prime
Minister rides roughshod over local communities. If John Prescott manages to
dupe the population into accepting the EU's Regional Assemblies, then the
dilution of local democracy will be complete. Evidently our Government wants to
increase democracy in Iraq and decrease democracy in Britain.

After this election, I have a new council chamber to sit in, built in what John
Prescott describes as a "sustainable new community", and what I describe as "the
Mickey Mouse new village of Cambourne" - built on a green-field site, right next
to an undeveloped brownfield site. Modern local government is, I am told, about
"delivery". Of the four council chambers I have sat in, this last - the newest -
is the worst.

It is like a large box, with no windows, noisy air-conditioning, poor acoustics
and a miserable public gallery in the middle of a large open plan "21st century"
office block. This new white elephant has been built with a Perspex roof, so
that every time it rains, normal communication becomes impossible. And the cost
for this building, which in my view is obsolete even before completion, is
pounds 17.5 million. Some "delivery"; delivered with every new council tax
demand.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              124 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 17, 2004, Saturday

'I'm the most hopeless TV presenter ever,' says Tara. 'but they keep inviting me
back'

BYLINE: Kate Muir

SECTION: Features; Times Magazine 9

LENGTH: 811 words


In 1962, long before Tara Palmer-Tomkinson was born, the American thinker Daniel
Boorstin defined a celebrity as "a person who is known for his well-knownness".
And of all the persons in all the world - except perhaps Abi Titmuss - Tara is
most deserving of this description.

Being a celebrity, Tara's opinion holds weight. Look, here she is as I arrive at
the hotel, telling a film crew her views on men's bad habits.

"You know," pronounces Tara from her penthouse sofa, "men are cleaner than you'd
expect. More anal about tidying, unless they're drunk and then they miss the loo
(Giggles). As for women - well, I haven't been in an office in a long time - but
men's desks are tidy and women's are covered in tissues, half-eaten food and
dirty mugs."

Celebrities are also limo-bound. I try to persuade Tara to walk two minutes to
Tate Britain, but she shudders on her heels: "I can't go there! I'd cause a
commotion. And aren't there schoolchildren on trips?" Shame. I liked the idea of
serious art lovers tearing themselves from the Turners and screaming for Tara.
So we go to the hotel bar for a pseudo-event.

Boorstin described pseudo-events as "a new kind of synthetic novelty which has
flooded our experienceI an event manufactured solely to be reported".

Tara and I will be talking about A Celebrity Place in the Sun on Channel 4 on
July 29. She is filmed looking for a villa in the South of France, including
Pierre Cardin's old Bubble House: "Very Bond girl, like something out of
Octopussy," says Tara. "But the worst thing was the traffic, the road rage,
which put me off living there." She realised it was more sensible to stay with
rich friends instead.

Tara's appearance on Celebrity Mastermind is coming soon, and I can hardly wait.
All this has blossomed from her sterling jungle performance in I'm a CelebrityI
Get Me Out of Here!, at which point she became a living pseudo-event. Last year,
Tara's likeness appeared in Madame Tussaud's. She stands by a fake swimming pool
and squirts you with a water pistol. "A human water feature?" I ask. "Yes. That
waxwork really meant a lot to me.

It was a real honour."

Of course, no one knows better than Tara about the ups and downs of fame.

The viciousness of the media has greatly increased since 1996 when she bought
ten copies of her original Tatler It Girl cover. "We make ourselves feel better
about what we've got by condemning others," she says. Even after Tara gave up
cocaine in an Arizona clinic - her mother said at the time that she was like
Icarus and had burnt her Gucci wings - she still suffers rumours. "Every time I
come out of a loo cubicle, people ask, 'What's she been doing in there?'"
Relapse is news. Rehab is not.

In the bar, Tara has a coffee, a fag, and a plate of chips - her current
addictions. At 33, Tara is lean, in a brown leather skirt and skin-tight cardie,
sort of tie-dyed with coffee. It's an interesting, Turneresque effect. "Prada,"
says Tara. She bought it in Manchester, near where her boyfriend lives. If you
regularly peruse heat and whatnot, you may know who he is, but I don't. What we
do know is that he has a boat.

"Rowing?" I ask.

"No, with cabins. It's great for a relaxing holiday."

Indeed, Tara claims that when not cruising the Med she likes the quiet life. "I
just want to be at home, barefoot, eating cottage pie and watching EastEnders,"
she says. "I used to go to ten things a night. It was fantastic in my early
twenties to be at all these events - frivolous as it may seem. You don't feel
that's weird when you're young."

She is now described as a "career-girl TV presenter" by her PR machine. "I think
I'm the most hopeless TV presenter ever, but they keep inviting me back." Tara
presents I'm a CelebrityI, Children's Eurovision, and The Bachelor of the Year
Awards: "I'm just grateful for every bit of work they offer me," she says,
grinning.

We discuss the future. Tara says she may write a "fun novel", the London
equivalent of Plum Sykes's Bergdorf Blondes, "but not so groomed. I can't even
go to New York now. Everyone's so self-obsessed, worrying about whether they've
got the right Birkin or if their shoes are last season."

Tara no longer does the English Season ("I'm not really good at doing the done
thing"). Besides, she thinks Ascot and Henley have become too commercialised.
"But then sometimes I see the Queen in a carriage at Ascot, or all the glamour
of Wimbledon, and it makes me really proud to be British. I loved the Jubilee
street parties - a real feeling of friendliness and unity - and that great
concert. I thought: 'We are a United Kingdom, we have this!'" Who realised that
Tara was a political orator? UK Independence Party, here we come. You can't deny
it - TPT would make a great MP. It's the inevitable next step in the Long March
up the red carpet.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 17, 2004, Saturday

Whip withdrawn

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 40 words


The UK Independence Party has withdrawn the whip from a newly elected MEP.
Ashley Mote faces criminal charges relating to allegations of housing benefit
fraud. The author and businessman became an MEP for southeast England in June.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 16, 2004

DASH OF SPIRITS IN A CELEBRITY HAUNT

BYLINE: By Loma-Ann Bonner

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 638 words


SPOOKY sightings and ghostly goingson have always held a scary fascination.

And ever keen to get in on the act, there are plenty of celebrities who reckon
that they've come face to face with things that go bump in the night.

This weekend eight shivering stars will find out just how brave they are when
they're holed up in a haunted castle for I'm Famous And Frightened 2.

Sexy Adele Silva, blonde bombshell Danniella Westbrook, and presenters Jeff
Brazier and Terry Christian and ex telly chef Rusty Lee are among those staying
in a haunted castle to see if they cower under their duvets or laugh in the face
of paranormal pastimes.

Stars, including Hollywood babe Catherine Zeta Jones and saucy presenter Denise
Van Outen, claim that they have shared their homes with scary apparitions.

And a whole clutch of celebs are popping up ready to be terrified and
traumatised through the medium of telly.

Jonathan Ross's wife, flamehaired Jane Goldman, had a psychic carry-on in Jane
Goldman Investigates; gorgeous Gail Porter hunts the ghosts of deceased stars in
Dead Famous.

Ex-Emmerdale babe Adele, 23 - soon to star in Mile High - believes in ghosts.

"I really don't know how I'll react if I see one, " she says.

"Some of my mates have seen and felt things in the past and I'm sure that
there's more to life than we realise."

Having recently signed up to the UK Independence Party, you'd think Rusty was
used to seeing her fair share of ghouls! But she couldn't take the heat when she
confronted the real thing.

And dishy Danniella, 30, is another one who has plenty of experience of the
other side.

While living in her old house - a former stable block - the sultry actress saw a
young boy in Victorian costume standing in the doorway, but when she approached
him he vanished. She also goes for psychic readings and often "speaks" to two of
her departed friends through a medium.

And it looks like the formerEastEnders siren will be first in the ouija board
queue.

But Jeff Brazier, Jade Goody's ex, will be biting his nails at the back. Jeff,
25, hasn't seen a ghost but had a frightening experience when 13. The star of
Celebrity Wife Swap and Shipwrecked was staying at his girlfriend's house and
they were alone in the bedroom trying out a ouija board.

She left the room when Jeff felt scared - only to see the door handle slowly
opening.

He shouted to see if it was his girlfriend and she replied from downstairs.

"I'm still convinced that there was a paranormal presence in the room, " he
says, shivering. "But in a strange and twisted way I'm looking forward to being
scared again this weekend."

And the haunted Fyvie Castle in Aberdeenshire isn't the only place that celebs
have met with a frightening spook.

Paul O'Grady - aka Lily Savage - says that he shares his Kent home with none
other than the ghost of German femme fatale Marlene Dietrich.

He said: "There's a very glamorous ghost in the house.

You smell her, you just get a whiff of this lovely perfume.

It's not at all scary. She passed me on the stairs once and I felt elated. I
like to think it's Marlene."

Singer Sting - known for his interest in all things New Age - reckons that he's
come within howling distance of two terrible ghouls. He explains: "I was
petrified when I saw a woman and a child in my bedroom.

"I've also seen another apparition and I believe those things are out there.
I've had experiences that I simply cannot explain."

But for all you sceptics out there who think that ghosts are just a figment of
an overactive imagination, ask yourselves this - wouldn't you be happily haunted
by the likes of sexy Adele or hunky Jeff ?

I'm Famous and Frightened 2, presented by Keith Chegwin, will be on Livingtv
tonight, tomorrow and Sunday, live at 9pm.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              127 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 16, 2004, Friday

Tory heartlands threaten Howard

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 248 words

Last night's by-elections in Leicester and Birmingham will have delivered the
verdict of the urban masses on all three major parties. Let's hope for Michael
Howard's sake that he didn't suffer too much in the two Midland cities, as he is
already facing a revolt within his rural power-base.

Spy has obtained a copy of a furious letter from one Michael Ford, vice-chairman
of the Conservative Rural Action Group (Crag), to Owen Paterson MP, Tory
agriculture spokesman. In it, Ford, launches a tirade against Tory high
command's "complete indifference" towards the countryside.

"No concern is shown by the MPs" towards the agricultural environment, writes
Ford.

So incensed is Crag that it has abruptly cancelled this year's Country Fair, a
centrepiece of the Tory's annual party conference in recent times.

When Spy calls, it is clear that Ford's fury hasn't subsided: "I am disappointed
with the Tory party. All they do is bang on about health, education and crime,
and in the process they are neglecting the entire countryside. It's about time
the Tories woke up to the fact that there is a countryside out there."

The letter also alludes to the rise of UKIP in Tory areas: "There are members of
Crag who find it very worrying that, when core workers and helpers in the
countryside are voting UKIP, no concern is shown by MPs."

Over to Paterson: "Where did you get hold of this letter?" he asks. "It was
meant to be a private letter. Michael Ford is a very excitable man."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              128 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 15, 2004

HICKEY; HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 417 words


SHOULD California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger start choosing wallpaper
patterns for the Oval Office, Hickey wonders.

Despite his Austrian nationality, the former film star is set to become US
President - according to celebrated international psychic Maurice Collins whose
clients include Sean Connery, Barbra Streisand and Jennifer Lopez.

"In 2001 I told Arnold he would be governor of California, " says Britishborn
Maurice.

"He had not thought of standing. I predict he will be President."

Such a move would require an amendment to the US Constitution but is not
impossible.

Less likely, however, is Maurice's next prediction, unveiled on Teletext Total
Entertainment:

"Michelle Collins (the former EastEnders star) is going to be a big star in the
US."

CURLY-TOPPED guitarist Brian May says the Queen musical We Will Rock You will,
bizarrely, have a Rat Pack theme during its Las Vegas stint this year. He says:
"The show changes a lot wherever it is on - the music reflects the city or
country it is playing in." Somehow, Hickey can't imagine Frank Sinatra singing
Bohemian Rhapsody.

DISILLUSIONED by British politics, It Boy eco-warrior Zac Goldsmith - whose late
father Sir James founded the ill-fated Referendum Party - has dropped his plans
to become a politician.

The Ecologist magazine editor, brother of the glamorous Jemima Khan, is
dismissing rumours that he wants to become a Tory MP, despite turning up to the
party's Commons summer bash.

"I think every day of standing for election and then remember who I am and why
it simply wouldn't work, " he sighs. "I'd be disastrous. I'm too much of a loose
cannon. I'm no good at going along with things I don't believe in and,
unfortunately, that's one of the things politicians have to do. I vote for
whoever is least likely to get into power. I guess at the moment that's either
Ukip or the Green Party, but I'm always switching."

LYNNE TRUSS, whose book Eats, Shoots And Leaves has made her a fortune by
selling more than a million copies, has recruited two celebrities to her cause.
"Timothy West wrote to me, " she told Hickey at the Oldie luncheon at
Simpson's-in-theStrand this week. "He was annoyed at a road sign that read,
'Children Drive Slowly'. He said, 'If children are driving, they certainly ought
to be driving slowly'.

"Jane Asher is also collecting examples. One newspaper picture of her with a
cake had the caption, 'Jane Asher and her "edible" cake'. She was very
offended."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              129 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 15, 2004, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 724 words


Will James go public about Diana in fourth memoir?

Fourteen years after he swore never to write another volume of memoirs, Clive
James is poised to execute a fascinating U-turn.

The polymath comedian has decided to publish a fourth volume of his
autobiography, charting his life following graduation from Cambridge, where the
last memoir, May Week Was In June, left off.

It's an intriguing move. James has always rejected offers to lift the lid on his
career, which has brought him a host of colourful friends, including Germaine
Greer, Eric Idle, Peter Cook and Barry Humphries.

James has also kept counsel on his many years as a close (and loyal) confidant
of the late Diana, Princess of Wales.

Rarely giving interviews (and refusing to discuss Diana when he does), he has
"gone public" about her just once, in a 5,000 word New Yorker essay, published a
month after she died.

Writing enigmatically about being "in cahoots" with the Princess, James said
then: "Now, for the first time, I wish I had never met her at all. Then I might
not have loved her, and would not feel like this, or at any rate would feel it
less. But I did meet her and I did love her."

A spokesman for James, who was the guest speaker at Tuesday's Oldie lunch, says
that he plans to begin work on the book during his forthcoming summer holidays.

Naomi to front

Jewish campaign

DESPITE HER well-documented love of privacy, Naomi Campbell is growing
increasingly political in her old age.

Having once said she'd "rather go naked than wear fur" (only to be snapped in a
mink overcoat a few months later), the supermodel has now agreed to front a
campaign against anti-Semitism in New York.

Ms Campbell is the new "face" of the adverts for the Anti-Defamation League's
"anti-Semitism is anti-Me" campaign, appearing on billboards across the US. In
Blighty, Jewish groups are pleased - up to a point.

"Anti-Semitism ought to be a concern for gentiles as well as Jews, and it's
always good for public figures to speak out against bigotry," says Matthew
Reisz, the editor of The Jewish Quarterly.

"However, Ms Campbell famously never got round to reading the novel published
under her name. We can only hope she's more scrupulous in this case."

Green politics

ZAC GOLDSMITH says he won't be following his father into politics, in the near
future at least. The Ecologist editor (left) has come to the conclusion that
he'd make a "disastrous" politician.

"I think every day about standing for election, and then remember who I am and
why it wouldn't work," he says. "I'm too much of a loose cannon. I'm no good at
going along with things I don't believe in and, unfortunately, that's one of the
main things politicians have to do."

Last week, Zac attended Michael Howard's birthday party. But he tells me he
votes either for UKIP or the Green Party - "whoever's got the least chance of
winning".

Tory casualty

WHATEVER THE result, the Tories have already suffered a serious casualty in the
run-up to today's by-election in Birmingham Hodge Hill.

One Mrs Jevon - the mother of the party's local agent Simon - recently agreed to
help the leafleting campaign.

Sadly, she had the misfortune to push her hand into a letterbox guarded by a
particularly vicious dog.

"There was an incident involving the agent's mother," confirms the party's local
spokesman.

"It was serious. The dog bit her hand and she has lost two fingers."

I'm sure that the Tories will be keeping their own fingers crossed that poor Mrs
Jevon doesn't try to sue for compensation.

The feud between William Dalrymple and the Asian magazine editor Farah Damji is
still simmering nicely.

In December, Damji told the Daily Mail about her one-night stand with the frisky
travel writer, who promptly high-tailed it to India with his wife, Olivia
Fraser.

Now Damji's magazine Another Generation has published a review of Dalrymple's
book White Mughals. And it's quite a stinker.

Describing the author as "Willie (can't keep it in my pants) Dalrymple," it
knocks both the book - "Read it at peril of being brainlessly bored" - and its
naughty author.

"Very married Willie has been known to dabble effusively with beautiful Asian
women, much to the anguish of his long-suffering wife," it reads.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              130 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 13, 2004, Tuesday

When Kilroy-Silk was pro-European

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 229 words

Has Robert Kilroy-Silk, the flamboyant figurehead of UKIP, always been quite as
dedicated to the cause of Euro-scepticism as he is today?

Spy has discovered evidence that once upon a time, Kilroy-Silk (right) may have
been a fervent europhile. Indeed, contemporaries at the London School of
Economics, from which he graduated in 1964, recall him as being a leading light
of the Young European Movement - a cross-party pro-European youth organisation.

"I was at LSE with Robert at the time. He was a young man who wanted to be
everywhere and do everything," says one. "He thought the Young European Movement
was a great place to be. He was desperate to make his name and didn't want to
miss out."

Another LSE graduate chips in: "Robert certainly wasn't a UKIP-style man back
then. I don't remember if he actually signed up to the movement or not, but it
would have been in keeping with his views."

When I reach Kilroy-Silk at his holiday villa in Spain, his memory seems to get
the better of him. "I don't remember getting involved in any student politics
whatsoever. It's all very juvenile," he says. "I don't have a problem with
changing my mind. If it were true, I'd admit it. Look at Neil Kinnock and Jack
Straw, who were against European union in 1975. I just don't think Europe was
much of an issue in the mid-Sixties. I doubt we even knew where it was."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              131 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 12, 2004, Monday

WINNING THE MUSLIM VOTE WILL NOT BE EASY

BYLINE: ISMAIL PATEL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 853 words


The soaring political temperatures in Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill
are helping warm the dull summer. Labour won both constituencies with convincing
majorities at the last general election, but Iraq has helped to alter the
landscape dramatically ahead of Thursday's by-elections.

Leicester South has a 30 per cent ethnic minority community, with Muslims
forming a majority of 19 per cent. Crucially, the Muslims are evenly spread
throughout this wide constituency which runs across some of the most deprived
wards such as St Matthews - with an unemployment rate running into double
figures - and the most affluent area, Stoneygate, where the average house price
is more than pounds 500,000. Thus the "Muslim vote", if it exists, could be the
king-maker.

Like Muslims elsewhere in the country, Leicester's have traditionally voted
Labour en masse, ensuring the late Jim Marshall a majority of more than 13,000
in the last general election.

But the Iraq war, the Anti-Terrorism Act 2001 and the Government's failure to
protect Muslims under race discrimination laws, have led to a situation where
most Muslims are preparing to abandon Labour. For whom? That is the big question
in the run-up to Thursday.

Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy have already made a dozen visits between them
to Leicester, and prominent members of all the parties are contacting
organisations and individuals believed to have influence in the constituency.
The Lib Dems overturned the Labour majority in the local council elections of
2003 with the direct help of dissatisfied Muslim voters. The Conservatives, who
came second in the general election, trailed in a poor third place at the local
level, but recovered ground in the June European elections.

Thanks to the evolving anti-terrorism laws, Muslims are no longer politically
guided by their mosques. The mere mention of politics in mosques carries the
risk for worshippers of being accused of blindly following "subversive" imams.

The average voter has turned to grassroots organisations and individuals with a
track record of civic commitment over mainstream politicians. A public debate
last Thursday drew hundreds of people to a vigorous, but informative discussion.
Newsletters circulating in the Muslim community have outlined the detailed
responses of the candidates on policy questions. Initiatives like this have
raised Muslim political savvy to a more sophisticated level.

Of the eight mosques in the Leicester South area, only two committees are known
to be party-aligned, one with Labour and the other Lib Dem. But even these
mosques have little or no significant sway over the people, as the pulpit is
never used to promote a political party - as Mr Kennedy found out on one recent
trip, when he had to be content with a tour of an empty mosque before Friday
prayers.

Hence, the Muslim block vote has been in hibernation, waiting to be revived
either by a Muslim candidate or another unifying common denominator. The
mainstream political parties have clung to the jaded campaigning technique of
invitations to, and photo opportunities with, "community leaders". But most
Muslims have learned the hard way the hollow value of political promises,
particularly on such key local issues as faith schools.

So this by-election will be a four-way affair. The Liberal Democrats are leading
Labour in the polls, and if they maintain that lead, city councillor Parmjit
Singh Gill, will become their first ethnic minority MP. With UKIP out of the
race (the party gained 19 per cent of the votes in Leicester at the European
election, 0.5 per cent above the Conservatives) the Conservatives, at least, can
breathe a sigh of relief.

But the fourth candidate Yvonne Ridley, the journalist turned anti-war
campaigner, standing for the Respect - The Unity Coalition, is likely to take
away a significant number of votes from both the Lib Dems and Labour.

Indeed, if the "Muslim vote" comes out in strength, with Iraq as the unifying
issue, it may ironically undermine the objective of many, which is to vote
Labour out. Disillusioned Labour voters may turn to Respect rather than the Lib
Dems, thus allowing Labour to sneak a victory by a whisker.

Thus the Muslims may still play the pivotal role, albeit indirectly. An outcome
that is unlikely, but cannot be completely excluded, particularly in the event
of a low turnout, is that Leicester South may deliver a shock winner in the form
of Yvonne Ridley.

With politicians in their droves beating a path to Leicester, Mr Blair's
personal absence from the fray sticks out like a political sore thumb. But it is
a relief to his own local party, which considers him a liability.

Leicester South offers an example of a healthy democracy at work. In this case,
all the candidates are under the intense scrutiny of the voters, whom they know
could cause a political earthquake. Which would be ironic, in the constituency
of the late Jim Marshall, who was arguably the quietest man in British politics.

The writer is the leader of a Leicester-based Muslim rights organisation

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              132 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 July 11, 2004

53pc say Blair must go if he lied about WMDs

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS

SECTION: STH1; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words


TONY BLAIR should resign if the Butler report into intelligence blunders in the
run-up to war in Iraq blames the Government for misleading voters about Saddam's
weapons.

That is the stark verdict of an exclusive Mail on Sunday YouGov poll, which also
reveals that the number of people who believe the war was wrong is at a record
high.

The survey shows that more than a year after victory was declared in Iraq, the
public is disillusioned with Mr Blair's alliance with George Bush.

And if Lord Butler's report, due on Wednesday, contains fierce criticism of
Downing Street, voters expect the Prime Minister to fall on his sword.

The YouGov survey shows that 53 per cent believe Mr Blair should resign if he is
found guilty by Butler, while only a third say he should stay in office.

And the public's judgment of Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon and MI6 chief John
Scarlett is even more harsh.

More than two out of three say Hoon should quit if Butler rules against him,
with only one in five urging him to hang on.

Seven out of ten say Scarlett, who chaired the Joint Intelligence Committee
responsible-for the controversial-dossier that said Saddam could launch weapons
of mass destruction in 45 minutes, should step down. A mere 16 per cent are
prepared to defend him.

The findings reinforce speculation at Westminster that Scarlett, promoted to
head MI6 only a few weeks ago, is in line to be made the fall guy for the
intelligence fiasco. But they make grim reading for Ministers, who have said
there will be no witch-hunt as a result of Butler's findings.

The poll indicates that most people believe the guilty men deserve to pay the
penalty.

The survey also shows an about-turn in the public's view of the war. In May last
year, shortly after the victory in Baghdad, 55 per cent believed Saddam had
WMDs.

Today, a record 52 per cent believe there were no WMDs when Britain and America
invaded Iraq. It is the first time the number of doubters has been more than
half.

Similarly, antiwar sentiment is stronger than ever.

At the start of the war, six out of ten said it was justified and only one in
three opposed it. Now a record 50 per cent believe it was wrong and a record
low, 42 per cent, say it was right.

However, the poll is not all good news for the Conservatives. Despite Labour's
travails, the Tories are only level with the Government at 34 per cent, largely
as a result of losing support to the UK Independence Party.

And Conservative leader Michael Howard's personal rating has fallen sharply by
12 points in two months.

Fewer than four out of ten believe he has a good chance of winning the next
election.

. YouGov questioned a representative sample of 1,768 electors throughout Britain
online between July 8 and 10, 2004.

. . . and Sandra outpolls Cherie

CHERIE BLAIR is far cleverer than Sandra Howard but Sandra is more sincere.

And Cherie is four times more likely to deter people from voting for her
husband.

These are the findings of a Cherie versus Sandra popularity contest by YouGov,
commissioned by The Mail on Sunday, after ex-model Mrs Howard's limp performance
beside her Tory leader husband Michael on ITV's This Morning programme.

Pundits believe wives play an important role in winning votes for party leaders.

Lawyer Cherie outscores Sandra, pictured right, by almost three to one in the
intelligence ratings, but softly spoken Sandra is regarded as more interesting
by 20 points to 15 and more than twice as sincere. If Mr Howard does make it to
No10, he may have his wife to thank for it.

Cherie incurs a violent reaction among some, with one in five less likely to
vote for Mr Blair as a result of his wife. But only one in 20 says Mrs Howard
would stop them voting for her husband.

Cherie v Sandra

Cherie Sandra More interesting 15 20

More intelligent 29 11

More sincere 7 17

Would stop you

voting for their

husband 20 5

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              133 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 11, 2004, Sunday

COMMUNITY SPIRIT Rude shock at V fee Notebook

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 251 words

Ray Ellam is one of thousands of UK citizens with a holiday home in Cyprus who
took advantage of a government scheme that allowed them to buy or import a car
to the island tax-free, so long as they were not resident more than half the
time. As proof of this, each time they left the island they took their
"V-plated" vehicle to a bonded warehouse, whence, on their return, they could
reclaim it for a small fee.

When Mr Ellam went to claim his pounds 8,000 car this year, however, he had a
rude shock. He was told that, now that Cyprus was in the European Union, he
would have to pay excise duty, Vat and registration fees, amounting to nearly
pounds 8,000, the total value of the car. The calculations were scribbled out on
a scrap of paper by Customs officials, who insisted that they had not known
about the new rules until May 1.

The Cypriot press reveals that hundreds of other V-plate holders have been
caught in the same trap. The Cypriot government claims that car owners had been
given warning, but this has been strongly denied by the victims, who say that
neither customs nor the transport ministry gave them any hint of the new rules.

Back in England, Mr Ellam wrote to Mark Watts, his Labour MEP. When his letter
was ignored, he then wrote to the recently-elected UKIP MEPs, Nigel Farage and
Ashley Mote. Since they could see no obvious way in which Cyprus can be called
to account for such a shameless breach of the "spirit of the Community", they
passed Mr Ellam's case on to me.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              134 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 09, 2004, Friday

For the first time since 1997, Labour is on the run

SECTION: FeaturesLeading Article Pg. 27

LENGTH: 632 words

The stalling of Conservative progress in the opinion polls, added to the party's
disappointing performance against the UK Independence Party in the June
elections, has generated a good deal of private doubt and some critical comment
on the leadership of Michael Howard. It is easy to forget that these setbacks
occur against a backdrop of quite startling Tory success in some of the most
difficult challenges that the party has faced.

Under Mr Howard, the party has managed to overcome what was once seen as an
insurmountable obstacle. It can no longer plausibly be depicted (even by the
most desperately spinning Labour spokesman) as callously uncaring about public
services. On health and education, issues that had been regarded as safe Labour
ground on which no Tory dared to tread, they have managed to assert themselves
with confidence and imagination. Not only have they buried the argument that
they would be slash-and-burn cutters of expenditure, but they are also putting
forward well developed policies for reforming the way healthcare and schools are
run, which are so clearly attractive that Labour is being forced to plagiarise
them.

The Government may be insisting, on the one hand, that providing patients and
parents with the freedom to choose hospitals and schools is not a vote-winner
but, on the other, it is busily scrambling to present its own prescription for
more choice and diversity, and rushing to assure voters that it, too, wishes to
restrict central control.

In the deliberate confusion that Labour has generated with its me-too rhetoric,
it would be easy to lose sight of the fact that the Tories are, extraordinarily
enough, actually leading the debate. It is the Government that is being forced
to match and counter interesting initiatives from an opposition that seems to be
prepared, for the first time in years, to think brave new thoughts about the
organisation of healthcare and state schooling.

All of this is made more plausible and coherent by the Conservative campaigning
strategy now having an over-arching theme - the pernicious impact of Labour's
big government - which, if played well and described pithily, could strike a
chord with large sections of the electorate. It should not be impossible to
persuade voters that the effects of overweening bureaucracy, centralised power
and wasted tax money are directly relevant to their everyday lives. On this
point, too, the message is compelling enough to force Labour on to the
defensive.

Tony Blair and Gordon Brown have perhaps been surprised to discover that, just
as Tories could be damaged by the charge that they were inevitable "cutters" of
spending, they themselves may be vulnerable to the accusation that they are
chronic wasters of money. Not wishing to be branded as a government that spends
money uselessly and profligately, Labour must now argue its case at every turn
for increased expenditure, instead of simply relying on the unchallenged
assumption that more (and more) government spending is an inherently good thing.
This development is a major breakthrough in post-war political discourse, and Mr
Howard's frontbench team should be given due credit for it.

The Conservatives are now moving on to the more familiar territory of crime and
immigration. Here, they face David Blunkett, a Labour Home Secretary who is
inclined to present himself as more populist than many Tories on these issues.
But just as they have managed to avoid the trap of looking like Draconian
cutters of spending by offering innovative public service proposals, they will
have to cope inventively rather than predictably on policing and asylum. The
first obligation of an effective opposition is to keep the government on the
run. For the first time since 1997, the Tories are doing just that.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              135 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 9, 2004

GERMAN EUROCRAT WANTS US TO PAY AN EXTRA GBP 3.5BN TO THE EU. . . MEANING WE'D
PAY MORE THAN ANYONE ELSE; BRITAIN IS AMBUSHED

BYLINE: ALISON LITTLE CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 656 words


BRUSSELS last night stirred up a fierce battle with Britain by threatening to
reduce our hard-won annual refund from the European Union in a move that would
cost us billions.

The rebate - negotiated in an historic victory 20 years ago by Margaret Thatcher
- is worth more than GBP 3.5billion to the UK in some years.

But now the European Commission wants to redesign the EU's budget in a way that
would massively reduce Britain's refund and send our net contribution soaring.

The proposal, by budget commissioner Michaele Schreyer, from Germany, would see
Britain become the biggest net payer into Brussels' coffers.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, a recently elected Euro MP for the UK Independence Party
(Ukip), which wants Britain to leave the EU, said:

"The Commission is showing what we've been saying all along - that they're just
after our money and our markets."

The Sunday Express columnist said the proposals will help a campaign he plans
for the autumn, spelling out the true cost to Britain of the EU. He joked:
"Michaele Schreyer must be a closet supporter of Ukip! This will encourage
people to support Ukip."

Under plans due to be unveiled next Wednesday, the Commission wants to replace
the present system with a general refund for all net contributors to the EU -
those countries that pay in more than they get out - including Germany, France,
Italy and the Netherlands.

Britain would have a final veto on any change, meaning it has little chance of
being adopted, but controversy about the issue would cause Tony Blair political
problems, dogging him throughout the general election expected next year and his
promised referendum on the EU Constitution.

Critics said the surprise move from Brussels showed Mr Blair's recent claims to
have won a place for Britain at the heart of a new Europe rang hollow.

And they feared the PM might in the end surrender on the issue rather than find
himself isolated at the talks table against the other 24 EU member states.

Ms Schreyer made clear yesterday her determination to shake the system up from
2007 onwards. She appeared to indicate she was not proposing to scrap Britain's
rebate altogether but insisted her plans were about ensuring "equal treatment of
member states".

"It's an idea of fairness.

Unfortunately it hasn't been tackled before. It's something we have to deal
with. My proposal will be worth looking at deeply and it will be a very good
basis for negotiation, " she said.

The Commission says the rebate was an exceptional measure agreed when the UK was
one of the EU's poorest countries and when more than two-thirds of the budget
went on farm subsidies, which benefit Britain less than others.

But Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "We recognise that, in relative terms to
most other EU countries, we have become more prosperous over the past decade,
but we still believe the rebate is justified because of the distortions in
programmes such as the Common Agricultural Policy."

He added: "We will wait for the Commission to publish the proposals. We will be
arguing the rebate is justified."

He would not say whether the Government would reconsider the issue if reform of
the Common Agriculture Policy of farm subsidies went through. But a Treasury
spokesman insisted the rebate remained "fully justified". "It is not on the
table and not up for negotiation, " he said.

As Prime Minister in 1984, Mrs Thatcher told fellow EU leaders "I want my money
back", underlining that Britain was reclaiming its own money, not taking from
others.

Our rebate is expected this year to be around GBP 3.3 billion. But now Britain
is the bloc's second richest member, and more of the EU's cash will go to the
poorer new east European member states.

Between 1995 and 2002 the UK was the second biggest net contributor to the EU
behind Germany, even after the rebate, having paid 2.5 times more than France
and Italy.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              136 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 8, 2004, Thursday

Inwards and upwards for UK

BYLINE: Patience Wheatcroft

SECTION: Business; 27

LENGTH: 396 words


ED BALLS may have left Gordon Brown's side but his eurosceptical influence
lingers on. In a speech that could have passed muster as a bid for the
leadership of the UK Independence Party, the Chancellor insisted that "the old
integrationist project", which went from the single market to a single currency,
tax harmonisation, common fiscal policy and a "quasi-federal state" was doomed
by globalisation. Only economic liberalisation policies making the bloc more
open to the rest of the world would do.

To answer those who still insist that sterling is doomed, Mr Brown need only
grab the latest inward investment figures. Britain was not only the favourite
destination for investment into the European Union, but it also remained the
most popular choice for corporate investors in other EU countries.

In 2003 the absolute level of inward investment rose sharply and the UK's share
of EU inward investment, which was already the biggest, rose further. Much of
the investment also looks particularly useful for the economy. Some 25,000 jobs
were created, mostly in small pockets connected to new industries such as
software, biotechnology and the internet. Manufacturing jobs also featured
strongly.

This picture makes nonsense of the claims made, among others, by some ministers,
that the UK is doomed to be deserted by Asian and American investors who want
Britain in the euro. In the wake of the dot-com bubble, the euro pessimists
thought they had scented blood.

In reality, Britain is gaining strength, even after a period when sterling was
uncomfortably high against the euro.

The English language helps when North American companies account for 40 per cent
of new projects. It may have helped that relations between the US and France
became even worse than usual, triggering a 77 per cent fall in acquisitions
between the two last year.

The main reasons why the UK became more attractive than its eurozone partners
for inward investment are deeper. The UK economy is healthier as a result of
managing its own currency sensibly. UK employment law makes it easier for
investors to come in and, if necessary, to get out. And British communities,
unlike some in the eurozone, still generally welcome foreigners bearing jobs.

Liberalisation is easy to replicate. The benefits of a currency managed to suit
the economy's circumstances are not.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 7, 2004, Wednesday

SPANISH EX-MINISTER SET TO HEAD EU PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 238 words


A FORMER Spanish cabinet minister, Josep Borrell, is almost certain to become
the next president of the European Parliament, as the two big political groups
moved to carve up the top positions.

Mr Borrell, a Catalan socialist who served in government in the 1980s and 1990s,
is likely to take the post for two and a half years, becoming the third
politician from Iberia to land a top position in the European Union.

Spain already holds the post of external relations high commissioner with Javier
Solana, and Portugal's premier, Jose Manuel Barroso, has recently been appointed
president of the European Commission.

Under an informal deal, the centre-right bloc would take over the presidency of
the parliament after two and a half years, with the German MEP, Hans- Gert
Pottering, the leading contender.

Meanwhile there was a blow for the main Eurosceptic grouping in the parliament,
when a Dutch whistleblower who helped bring down the last European Commission
said he did not want to sit in the same group as the 12 MEPs from the UK
Independence Party.

Paul van Buitenen, who was elected to the parliament after campaigning for a
clean-up in Brussels, said the MEPs from UKIP are "so Eurosceptic that would
like their country to withdraw from the EU. I am a Euro-critic and it would be
very difficult for me to join a group with these people."

Instead Mr van Buitenen plans to sit with the Greens.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              138 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 7, 2004, Wednesday

Lib Dems profit from falling stock of main parties

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 545 words


Here is one general election prediction: Labour and the Conservatives will
together get less than 70 per cent of the votes cast in Britain, for the first
time in more than 80 years. The real story of British politics at present is not
just that Tony Blair is unpopular or that Michael Howard has not yet got his
message across to voters (as he admitted yesterday).

The significant point is that the two have coincided. Many voters are not
attracted to either of the main parties, and have turned to the Liberal
Democrats and others (that catch-all including the UK Independence Party, the
Greens, the nationalists, the British National Party and smaller groups).

There are long and short-term trends. The two-party share peaked at more than 97
per cent in 1951, and, with one exception, remained above 90 per cent until
February 1974, when it fell sharply. Since then, apart from 1979, the Labour
Tory share has been in the 70s, touching a low of 71.8 per cent in 1983 when the
SDP-Liberal Alliance nearly overtook Labour.

The share could be falling again. In the local elections, the two main parties
together won 63 per cent, their lowest share since these figures began being
compiled in the late 1970s. In the European elections, the Tories and Labour won
less than 50 per cent of votes cast, a record low. And the latest Populus poll
for The Times gave just 62 per cent to Labour and the Tories, with the Lib Dems
and others on 38 per cent.

These figures may be exceptional, but the downward trend is clear. The Lib Dems
(now 24 per cent) have been above 20 per cent in most polls for more than 18
months, up from the midteens at the same stage of the last Parliament. Others
have risen from 6.5 per cent in 2001 to at least 8 per cent for more than a
year, and 14 per cent now. So the Lib Dems and others could easily get more than
30 per cent at the next election.

These projections are revealing about the current predicaments of Labour and the
Tories. Among the most interesting features of Mr Blair's appearance yesterday
before the Commons Liaison Committee were his exchanges with mainstream Labour
MPs such as Tony Wright, the chairman of the Public Administration Committee. Mr
Wright expressed doubts about the practical impact of the "choice" agenda for
public services. There was a real gap of understanding about how to get more
capacity in, say, a town with two comprehensive schools. Mr Blair emphasised the
links between choice and increased capacity.

The Tories have been busy producing new policy proposals, in health, education
and pensions; as well as, yesterday, a well-argued assault on the burden of "big
government" from Oliver Letwin. They are now serious players again, even if
still a long way from being potential election winners. And for all his personal
decency and competence, Michael Howard has not yet struck a chord with the
public.

At present, we have a strange mixture of a government that is not trusted, an
opposition that fails to inspire and an anti-incumbency and an anti-politician
mood. No wonder the Liberal Democrats are feeling chirpy and Tory MPs report
that local activists are talking about co-operating/merging with the UKIP. Mr
Howard faces almost as many challenges as Mr Blair.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 7, 2004, Wednesday

Howard admits that Tories are failing to woo the voters

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 488 words


MICHAEL HOWARD said yesterday that his party had failed to convince voters that
they were the "credible alternative" to Labour.

The Conservative leader was responding to the Populus poll for The Times, which
showed that his party was losing ground to Labour. He said he believed in the
success of his party's policies, but they were some way off from winning the
trust of the public.

He wants to base the Conservative's long-running campaign to win back power on
two issues: crime, and asylum and immigration.

Senior Tory sources said that there were four issues which would count in the
general election, but that they could "neutralise" Labour on health and
education.

A strict approach to crime and immigration issues have been singled out as the
areas where the Conservatives can pick up votes, beginning with a major policy
announcement on immigration this week. This may be timed to steal the thunder
from Labour's announcement of its new education policy tomorrow.

The Populus poll showed that the Conservatives had lost ground to Labour since
the local and European elections, and that the number of voters preferring Mr
Howard to Tony Blair had dropped in every social and age group.

"I think we are now in the electoral battleground," said Mr Howard. "But the
challenge that faces us it to convince that we are that credible alternative. We
need to convince people that we can improve law and order and can reduce crime
and bring immigration under control."

He added: "I know we can do these things, but we have to convince the public on
it. It's an ongoing process, and we've got to complete it."

Mr Howard tried to dismiss the poll's findings on his personal approval ratings,
saying: "These things go up and down, we have to accept that." To change tack
because of individual polls was "not a sensible way of approaching them".

The poor showing had done nothing to convince him to co-operate with the UK
Independence Party, which has split some Tory support. Backing for the UKIP has
gone up to 6 per cent, from 5 per cent a month ago, and is the main reason why
the Tories' ratings have not risen.

"Of course not, it's not our policy to leave the EU," he said. "I want to stay
in the EU, but I want to change it and bring power back from Brussels."

Mr Howard said that the problems of crime were often caused by courts making
weak decisions, and it was "no good always blaming the police".

"I think law and order are of particular importance. I think people are
particularly concerned about crime, and there is a sense of unease that the
Government lacks the confidence to tackle the issue."

What was needed was better means of making police locally accountable. "It's
absurd, this idea of having a concerted attack on binge drinking in ten towns
across the country, that's ridiculous," he said."I want local police to be
dealing with it locally all the time."


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  July 6, 2004

Howard 'less popular than Brown'

BYLINE: STEPHANIE CONDRON

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 355 words


MICHAEL HOWARD is a less popular choice for Prime Minister than either Tony
Blair or Gordon Brown, according to the latest poll.

With the General Election possibly less than a year away, the Tory leader has
lost public confidence, the survey shows.

More than 1,000 people were interviewed by Populus at the weekend for the Times
newspaper. Asked who they would prefer to see as Prime Minister, Tony Blair or
Michael Howard, 47 per cent chose Mr Blair and 31 per cent Mr Howard.

Given a choice between Mr Brown and Mr Howard, 49 per cent picked the Chancellor
and 29 per cent the Tory leader.

Asked to choose between the Prime Minister and the Chancellor, Labour voters
gave strong backing for Mr Blair, with 64 per cent wanting him to stay in the
job against 29 per cent keen to see Mr Brown replace him.

Among voters generally Mr Blair scored 37 per cent against Mr Brown's 34.

Men favoured Mr Blair (39 per cent) over Mr Brown (32 per cent), while women
were slightly biased in the other direction with 36 per cent for Mr Brown and 35
per cent for Mr Blair.

The Premier's strong showing runs counter to claims by his critics within the
party that the Chancellor is more popular with Labour supporters.

It is traditional for Labour supporters to be loyal to their leader but it was
thought there had been a growing momentum in favour of the Brown camp.

Labour and the Conservatives have both lost support over the last year.

The Tories had the backing of 29 per cent of those polled while Labour was
supported by 33 per cent. That compares with 35 per cent for the Tories last
year and 37 per cent for Labour.

The Tories will argue however that a strong showing in the local elections last
month can be built on in time for an election.

Labour cannot make the same claim, and will be even more disheartened because
they enjoyed 42 per cent support at the time of the 2001 General Election.

The UK Independence Party is at six per cent in national voting intentions, up
from five per cent last month.

Just over half of those surveyed thought military action in Iraq was wrong.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              141 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 06, 2004, Tuesday

City awash with MPs for poll 'too close to call'

BYLINE: By Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 528 words

THE Conservative campaign headquarters in Leicester South is teeming with MPs -
so much so that elected members, bused up to the Midlands from Westminster at 8
o'clock every morning, are colliding with one another in the corridors.

Chris Heaton-Harris, the party's youthful candidate and a Euro MP, jokes that
Michael Howard has been in town so often that he is in danger of being eclipsed.

"He has already been four times and is planning another three visits," he says.
"We don't want people to think he is the candidate."

Across the road, Parmjit Singh Gill, the Liberal Democrat hopeful and a Sikh,
poses for photographs and predicts that he will come from third place to take
the seat from Labour. "The big issue is still the war in Iraq," he says.

There are nine days to go before voters go to the polls in Leicester South and
Birmingham Hodge Hill, both Labour strongholds, and rarely have two by-elections
been so hotly contested.

One reason for this is that, as Tony Blair admits himself, the "shadow of Iraq"
still hangs over Labour.

In Leicester South more than 30 per cent of the population is made up of
Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus and most are anti-war. With Lord Butler's inquiry into
the use of intelligence before the war due out the day before polling, many
believe the potential for an anti-Blair revolt is increasing.

Even the Labour candidate, the ousted former leader of the council, Sir Peter
Soulsby, was cautious about winning this time as he joined Charles Clarke, the
Education Secretary, on a visit to the Crown Hills Community College.

"It is very difficult to tell at this stage," he said. "By-elections are
notoriously difficult to predict."

That is also the view of the local paper, the Leicester Mercury, which yesterday
declared the result "too close to call" and said all three parties were
"scrabbling for first place".

The anti-war Respect party, run by expelled Labour MP George Galloway, is also
out in force. Neither the United Kingdom Independence Party, nor the Greens are
running candidates.

On the streets many voters seemed to see the Liberal Democrats as favourites.
"Leicester is very multi-cultural," said Romona Bates, a young mother. "Most
people here don't like the war."

Every Tory MP out on the streets knows this is a crucial test of Michael
Howard's progress as leader and the result will greatly influence morale. Mr
Heaton-Harris is campaigning strongly on crime, housing and the planned closure
of local post offices.

"I tell them I have got lots of ideas on crime and that I used to work in a
fruit and veg market so I understand their concerns," he says.

Mr Clarke, after some energetic runs up one of the Crown Hills school football
pitches, claims Labour has a "good message" on public services and economy and
says Iraq is "much less of an issue" than it was. The real test in Leicester
South, he says, is for the Tories.

"If Michael Howard's renaissance is to have credibility then it is a seat they
have to win. All that I have gathered is that they are not making a lot of
headway. But it is up to the voters."

Mr Heaton-Harris disagrees, adding: "I am not in this to come second."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              142 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 06, 2004, Tuesday

Tribal army traditions lead to abuse of TA

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 19

LENGTH: 227 words

SIR - I was interested to read your report on the treatment of Territorial Army
solders in Iraq (July 3). Having spent some 30 years in the TA, let me explain
some of the problems.

There is no formal training for regular officers on the TA concept. In my many
years of service with a Nato unit, I was constantly horrified by the lack of
knowledge displayed by regular officers on the history or infrastructure of the
TA. The attitude was: you may be a very good bank manager, butcher, baker or
candlestick maker but we are real soldiers. Mention the capture of

Y Ravine in 1916 or the defence at Imphal and Kohima or the work of armoured
Yeomanry Regiments in Normandy and they stared at you with a blank expression.

Only officers who have served with TA units respect them. The Army is tribal and
people sent out in penny packets are not part of the tribe. None of this would
matter if TA regiments worked and fought as units, as they were designed to do
in the Haldane reforms.

Senior promotions for commissioned and non-commissioned officers should include
TA experience. Integration will never work when there is the "us and them"
attitude. In addition, politicians, most of whom have had no military service,
need to understand the regimental system. Now is certainly not the time for even
more cuts.

Godfrey Bloom MEP (UKIP)

Wressle, N Yorks

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              143 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 06, 2004, Tuesday

Inside knowledge

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 19

LENGTH: 239 words

When party grandee Lord Archer was jailed, Tory high command was unforgiving:
the novelist was expelled from the party for five years.

Oddly, though, the Tories aren't always so unsympathetic when one of their own
gets on the wrong side of the law.

On Friday, one Richard North (above left, with Archer) was sentenced to 14 days
in jail by Bradford magistrates for refusing (on principle) to pay the pounds 68
police precept of his council tax.

Not long after arriving at Armley prison in Leeds, North was released after the
Daily Mail paid his fine, amounting to nearly pounds 1,000.

Newspaper reports referred to North as a "former UKIP researcher", but failed to
point out that he is currently employed as an adviser to the Conservative
front-bench team.

"Richard is a big expert on animal health and has been advising John
Whittingdale and Owen Paterson, the Tory agriculture spokesmen," I'm told.

When contacted yesterday, Whittingdale pleaded guilty to consorting with a
jailbird.

"Yes, Richard has done a bit of work with us on agriculture and fishing issues,"
he said.

"I haven't spoken to him since Friday. Whilst I don't condone law-breaking, I
sympathise with him, and I'm sure most of my constituents would, too."

Conservative Central Office is less enthusiastic. "It's for individuals to make
those decisions," said a spokesman when asked whether shadow ministers should
accept advice from convicts.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              144 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 6, 2004, Tuesday

TERRYBLE;
 EXCLUSIVE WOGAN'S ATTACK ON TV, CELEBRITIES AND POLITICS ON BBC

BYLINE: CAMERON ROBERTSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 506 words

HIGHLIGHT: "VAIN": Joanie; TIRADE: Veteran Wogan


TERRY Wogan has savaged "vulgar" popular culture in an amazing rant.

The popular Radio 2 host condemned his BBC bosses for concentrating on "yoof",
said celebrities like Victoria Beckham were "talentless" and branded reality TV
"soft porn" and "futile".

Just for good measure, the veteran broadcaster also laid into hapless MPs for
spinelessly "doing what they're told".

Last night, a tactful BBC spokeswoman commented: "These are Terry's own views so
we're not going to comment on them."

Terry, 65, claimed in an interview the BBC was wasting taxpayers' money on
weekend shows for the young when the young were out on the town.

He stormed: "The penny has finally dropped for the BBC. You're making programmes
for people who aren't there.

"They've been aiming at the wrong market on Friday and Saturday nights - yoof
aged 15-35, which is what advertisers like. But on Friday and Saturday nights
the yoof are in pubs or clubs."

The normally genial Irishman then turned his attack on reality TV shows. He told
Word magazine: "We've had this ridiculous Hell's Kitchen where people who can't
cook are supposed to produce food. What's the point?

"It's more vulgarity. It's encouraging the public to sneer at poor
pseudo-celebrities. It's demeaning. It's futile. It's awful."

Terry also slammed shows like Big Brother for allegedly encouraging hardcore sex
on TV.

He declared: "Reality TV is a downward spiral. In the end we're going to end up
with - well, we've already ended up with soft porn - but hard porn.

"That's the only way it can go. It can only go down the sexual route because
we've had everything else, the arguments, fighting and jealousies."

Turning to today's obsession with celebrity, he added: "Our attitude to fame is
becoming more American, which is a shame. Posh and Becks is ridiculous. He's a
fair footballer, but the poor girl hasn't any talent at all. Their whole life is
predicated on fame. What's going to happen when nobody wants to know?"

Terry accused actress Joan Collins of joining the UK Independence Party because
she "likes having her picture in the paper".

He said: "I don't think the cream of intelligent life decide to be politicians
any more. As soon as they get into the Commons they're in the hands of the
whips. They don't vote the way of their conscience, they do what they're told."

The Limerick-born star, awarded an honorary OBE in 1997, has often mouthed his
forthright views.

He has accused the BBC of overpaying big name hosts, worrying more about
"carpets for management" than keeping important sporting rights, wasting money
on talent searches and "fiddling" audience ratings.

Terry, who first joined the BBC in 1969, is attracting record ratings for his
Radio 2 show.

He hosted BBC TV's live chat show Wogan three times a week for seven years. He
has also fronted the Eurovision Song Contest, Come Dancing, Celebrity Squares,
New Faces and Blankety Blank.

His interview appears in the new issue of Word, out on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              145 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 6, 2004, Tuesday

TERRYBLE;
 WOGAN'S ATTACK ON TV, CELEBRITIES AND POLITICS

BYLINE: CAMERON ROBERTSON

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 550 words

HIGHLIGHT: "VAIN": Joanie; TIRADE: Veteran Wogan


TERRY Wogan has savaged "vulgar" popular culture in an amazing rant.

The popular Radio 2 host condemned his BBC bosses for concentrating on "yoof",
said celebrities like Victoria Beckham were "talentless" and branded reality TV
"soft porn" and "futile".

Just for good measure, the veteran broadcaster also laid into hapless MPs for
spinelessly "doing what they're told".

Last night, a tactful BBC spokeswoman commented: "These are Terry's own views so
we're not going to comment on them."

Terry, 65, claimed in an interview the BBC was wasting taxpayers' money on
weekend shows for the young when the young were out on the town.

He stormed: "The penny has finally dropped for the BBC. You're making programmes
for people who aren't there.

"They've been aiming at the wrong market on Friday and Saturday nights - yoof
aged 15-35, which is what advertisers like. But on Friday and Saturday nights
the yoof are in pubs or clubs."

The normally genial Irishman then turned his attack on reality TV shows. He told
Word magazine: "We've had this ridiculous Hell's Kitchen where people who can't
cook are supposed to produce food. What's the point?

"It's more vulgarity. It's encouraging the public to sneer at poor
pseudo-celebrities. It's demeaning. It's futile. It's awful."

Terry also slammed shows like Big Brother for allegedly encouraging hardcore sex
on TV.

He declared: "Reality TV is a downward spiral. In the end we're going to end up
with - well, we've already ended up with soft porn - but hard porn.

"That's the only way it can go. It can only go down the sexual route because
we've had everything else, the arguments, fighting and jealousies."

Turning to today's obsession with celebrity, he added: "Our attitude to fame is
becoming more American, which is a shame. Posh and Becks is ridiculous. He's a
fair footballer, but the poor girl hasn't any talent at all. Their whole life is
predicated on fame. What's going to happen when nobody wants to know?"

Terry accused actress Joan Collins of joining the UK Independence Party because
she "likes having her picture in the paper".

He said: "I don't think the cream of intelligent life decide to be politicians
any more. As soon as they get into the Commons they're in the hands of the
whips. They don't vote the way of their conscience, they do what they're told."

The Limerick-born star, awarded an honorary OBE in 1997, has often mouthed his
forthright views.

He has accused the BBC of overpaying big name hosts, worrying more about
"carpets for management" than keeping important sporting rights, wasting money
on talent searches and "fiddling" audience ratings.

Terry, who first joined the BBC in 1969, is attracting record ratings for his
Radio 2 show.

He hosted BBC TV's live chat show Wogan three times a week for seven years. He
has also fronted the Eurovision Song Contest, Come Dancing, Celebrity Squares,
New Faces and Blankety Blank.

His interview appears in the new issue of Word, out on Thursday.

ON BBC

They're making 'yoof' shows for kids in the pubON POSH & BECKS

Ridiculous..he's a fair footballer she's talentlessON REALITY TV

On a downward spiral..it's just a load of soft pornON HELL'S KITCHEN

More vulgarity. It's futile awful and demeaning

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              146 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 6, 2004

POLL BOOST FOR BLAIR AS TORIES SLIDE

BYLINE: Nic Cecil Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 178 words


TONY Blair has brushed off threats from Michael Howard and Gordon Brown to his

Premiership, a poll reveals.

The Populus survey shows backing for Mr Howard to be Prime Minister has slumped
from 41 per cent in February to 31 per cent today - compared to 47 per cent for
Mr Blair.

The Chancellor's supporters will also be dismayed by the findings.

They show 64 per cent of Labour voters would prefer Mr Blair as PM compared to
just 29 per cent for Mr Brown.

The poll - for The Times - also shows the Tories slumping to 29 per cent of the
vote, three per cent below their position at the 2001 election.

The figure is also well down on the 35 per cent average of Mr Howard's six
months as Tory leader.

Labour is up two points on 33, the Lib Dems up two on 24 and the UK Independence
Party has soared to six per cent.

The survey suggests voters are deserting Conservatives for the more eurosceptic
UKIP.

Anger over the Iraq war among Labour supporters may also be diminishing as Mr
Blair seeks to concentrate on schools and hospitals.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              147 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2004, Tuesday

Faithful back Blair, but it's a close call with other voters

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 508 words


TONY BLAIR is strongly preferred as Prime Minister over Gordon Brown among
Labour party supporters, according to the latest Populus poll for The Times.

The poll, undertaken over the weekend, shows Mr Blair ahead of Mr Brown by a two
to one margin (64 to 29 per cent) among Labour voters. But Mr Brown is preferred
among voters currently intending to back another party and the undecided. Among
voters generally, Mr Blair is only narrowly preferred to Mr Brown, by 37 to 34
per cent, virtually within the margin of error.

The strong backing for Mr Blair among Labour voters reflects the traditional
loyalty of a party's supporters for their current leader. It also runs counter
to widespread claims by the Prime Minister's left-wing critics that Mr Brown is
more in tune with Labour supporters.

Mr Blair has a narrow lead among all social groups, among men (39 to 32 per
cent), and among both the young (39 to 37 per cent among 18 to 24-year-olds) and
pensioners (42 to 26 per cent among those over 65).

But Mr Brown is fractionally preferred among women (36 to 35 per cent) and by 45
to 64-year-olds. The Chancellor is also well ahead among Liberal Democrat
supporters (by 53 to 31 per cent) and swing or floating voters (by 41 to 33 per
cent). Around a third of the electorate are swing or floating voters who may
change their party preferences before the next election.

Mr Brown does slightly better head-to-head against Michael Howard than Mr Blair,
by a margin of 49 to 29 per cent against 47 to 31 per cent. But this is within
the margin of error and reflects the stronger preference for Mr Brown among
Liberal Democrat voters.

However, the fact that Mr Brown, like Mr Blair, is so strongly preferred to Mr
Howard, suggests that a possible Tory election strategy of saying that "If you
vote Blair, you'll get Brown" may be based on a false assumption about public
attitudes.

Mr Howard trails badly behind both Mr Blair and Mr Brown among all social, class
and age groups. Moreover, his rating has slipped since Populus asked a similar
head-to-head question last February. While the number preferring Mr Blair has
remained unchanged at 47 per cent, backing for Mr Howard as prime minister has
dropped from 41 to 31 per cent.

The poll shows that support for both Tories and Labour has declined in recent
months. Labour support, now 33 per cent, has been in the 31 to 34 per cent range
in all polls since May. This compares with an average of nearly 37 per cent last
year and 42 per cent in Britain in the 2001 general election.

Support for the Tories, nearly 33 per cent in 2001, averaged just over 35 per
cent in the first three months of Mr Howard's leadership, but has fallen to
under 34 per cent in the past three months and is now 29 per cent.

The beneficiaries have been the Lib Dems, now on 24 per cent, their highest
rating since February, and others, including the UK Independence Party, now on
14 per cent.

* Populus interviewed 1,002 adults aged over 18 by telephone on July 2 and 3.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2004, Tuesday

Britain's comeback kid

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 623 words


It is fashionable for sirens of the American Left, chief among them the
documentary maker Michael Moore, to affect bafflement at the common ground that
Tony Blair has found with President Bush. But today the Prime Minister should
allow himself a self-deprecating grin in the mirror as he is reminded of this
truth: he has still more in common with Bill Clinton.

Barring a major deterioration in the Iraqi security situation -something Iyad
Allawi has taken swift steps to prevent -Mr Blair should be able to look back on
this month as the one in which he emerged from the worst and most prolonged
storm of his poli-tical career with a loyal and forgiving party base intact and
a Conservative opposite number, who, for all his experience, has failed to fire
voters' imaginations.

The latest Times poll of British voting intentions is hardly inspiring for
Labour; it shows overall support up 2 per cent at 33 per cent since last month,
but still stuck nearly ten points below the approval ratings it enjoyed until
the Iraq effect started to take its toll more than a year ago.

But for Michael Howard and the Conservatives, the poll gives grounds for little
but disappointment. It shows the UK Independence Party cementing itself in
voters' minds almost entirely at the Conservatives' expense, which will only
deepen Mr Howard's funk as he seeks to articulate a policy of responsible
Euroscepticism.

Still more ominously, it reveals a decline in support for Mr Howard personally.

Six months ago, wrong-footing Mr Blair at the dispatch box in ways that his
predecessor never managed, he could plausibly have invoked the late Marlon
Brando's line about being a contender. He now trails Mr Blair by 16 points, and
Gordon Brown, in a hypothetical head-to-head, by even more. An 18-point gap
between the two effectively rules out the putative Tory strategy of warning
voters that by backing Mr Blair they might end up with his Chancellor in No 10
instead.

"Only connect," wrote E.M. Forster. Mr Howard should heed this infuriatingly
vague but deeply modern advice, because, like Senator Bob Dole in the United
States eight years ago, he is doing everything but. He lifted Tory hearts in his
first months in the job by winning back a vital swath of the chattering classes
ABs, in pollster parlance -without whom general elections are seldom won and
whose support Iain Duncan Smith had lost.

Now the ABs are slipping back to Labour, the UKIP and the Liberal Democrats.
This is partly because the Conservatives have little room for manoeuvre in
crafting policies on Europe, health and education that are both realistic and
distinct from those offered by a new Labour machine that learnt so much from the
Democrats' wanton borrowing of Republican ideas in the 1990s. But this defection
is also a simple result of the Howard honeymoon ending at a time of Clintonian
resilience from Mr Blair.

The Times poll suggests that Britons are as disgruntled as ever about Iraq, with
barely half as many voters persuaded of the rightness of invading as on the eve
of war. But there are signs that voter anger may have peaked, and that both
supporters and critics of military action are willing in the end to buy the
Prime Minister's twin-track defence of it -namely, that he committed troops
because he believed he should and that, once begun, their task had to be
completed. More fundamentally, Mr Blair, like his first transatlantic
counterpart, has charisma and modernity on his side. Like it or not, his is the
Britain of Frank Skinner and Wayne Rooney, not Hugh Grant and Stanley Matthews.
In any battle of feigned blokeishness, and the next general election may well be
one, Mr Blair still has an unfair advantage.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2004, Tuesday

Tory alarm as Labour makes poll comeback

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 801 words


* Lib Dems get new hope for two parliamentary by-elections.

MICHAEL HOWARD'S hopes of breaking Labour's grip on power have suffered a blow
with a poll showing that support for him as the next prime minister has slumped.

He is now well behind both Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, according to the latest
Populus poll for The Times.

Mr Howard and the Conservatives have fallen further behind Mr Blair and Labour,
with probably only ten months to go before the next general election. The Tories
are on 29 per cent, with Labour up two points since early June on 33 per cent.

The poll, undertaken over the weekend, will boost Liberal Democrat hopes of
doing well in the two parliamentary by-elections, in Leicester East and
Birmingham Hodge Hill, on July 15. The Lib Dems are up two points this month to
24 per cent, the party's highest rating since last February.

Mr Blair and Mr Brown both trounce Mr Howard as the voters' preferred prime
minister, by margins of around three to two. More-over, support for Mr Howard as
prime minister has fallen sharply since February, from 41 to 31 per cent, while
backing for Mr Blair has remained unchanged at 47 per cent.

The number of voters preferring Mr Howard has dropped among every social and age
group and, even among Tory supporters, is down from 90 to 81 per cent. The poll
shows that the success of the UK Independence Party in last month's European
elections is continuing to damage Tory prospects. This is likely only to
exacerbate the intense debate among local Conservative activists about whether
to co-operate and get closer to the UKIP.

Support for the UKIP is now at 6 per cent in national voting intentions, against
5 per cent last month, and a mere percentage point or two before the European
election campaign.

This is the main reason why the Tories are now on 29 per cent, unchanged on last
month. This is not only more than three points lower than at the 2001 general
election, but is also well below the Tories' average rating of 35 per cent in
the first six months of Mr Howard's leadership.

The fear among Tory strategists is not only about the impact of the UKIP but
also that, as the public makes up its mind about Mr Howard, its verdict is
negative.

Support for the Tories has slipped a little among professional and managers, the
group of voters which responded most positively to the change of leadership from
Iain Duncan Smith to Mr Howard eight months ago. Support among the group rose
from 35 to 40 per cent on average after Mr Howard took over. But since May, the
average Tory rating in this group has dropped to 33 per cent.

The poll was taken after the Tories' launch of their "freedom to choose"
proposals for health and schools but before their latest initiative, in which
the party will today identify scope for huge savings in "wasteful" government
spending. It will parade preliminary findings from a review of the public sector
headed by David James, the business troubleshooter, in a move which will raise
expectations that the party leadership can find room to promise tax cuts.

Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Chancellor, will identify layers of NHS bureaucracy
that would be removed by an incoming Tory administration. Similar pledges are to
follow on education as Tory spokesmen undertake to cut back laws and
regulations.

The Tories' poll rating has slipped despite the unpopularity of Mr Blair and the
Government. Support for Labour at 33 per cent compares with an average rating of
37 per cent last year and 42 per cent at the last general election in 2001.

The poll underlines that while Mr Blair and Labour are still preferred to Mr
Howard and the Tories, there is an increasing switch to the Liberal Democrats
and others.

The Lib Dems' 24 per cent rating compares with 19 per cent at the 2001 general
election. At the same stage of the last Parliament, the Lib Dems' rating was in
the midteens.

Others, including the UKIP, the Greens, the BNP and the nationalist parties, are
now on 14 per cent, down three points on last month, during the European
election campaign. However, this compares with an average of 8 per cent for
others last year.

Party strategists and electoral specialists would expect the total of others to
decline as the election approaches, but it could well be higher than the 6.5 per
cent of 2001. Even if support for the UKIP fell to half its current level, this
could make a difference between winning and losing for some Tories in the South.

* Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,002 adults aged over 18 by telephone
on July 2 and 3. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to be representative of all adults.

Faithful back Blair, page 2 Tories choose Gove, page 2 Leading article, page 19


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2004, Wednesday

CORRECTION: A report yesterday should have referred to a by-election in
Leicester South, and not Leicester East.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 5, 2004, Monday

A NEW KIND OF EUROPEAN POLITICS

BYLINE: TERENCE BLACKER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 650 words


It was one of the most adventurous and radical mission statements of modern
British politics. When Robert Kilroy-Silk was asked what UKIP, our fastest
growing political party, would do now that 12 members had been voted into the
European parliament, the chisel-featured celebrity had a succinct answer. "Wreck
it," he said.

Several weeks after the European elections, it is time to ask how that
broad-brush policy announcement will work on the ground. I rang an unofficial
spokesman from UKIP's Destabilising, Undermining and Harassment Office for an
informal briefing.

I asked him why there had not been any news on the progress of UKIP's key policy
in Europe.

"At first we thought we knew how best to wreck the European Parliament," said
the DUH spokesman. "We would simply do nothing. But then somebody pointed out
that a bunch of politicians sitting around doing nothing was not exactly
original. So right now we are working on a strategy of pro- active inaction.
UKIP will be doing nothing, but in a very positive way."

Eventually, I suggested, some policy detail would have to be produced.

"These things take time. The big ideas of the past decades - privatisation,
decentralisation, consumer choice - all started small, with a slogan. It has
taken months, years sometimes, for people to work out what exactly they mean.
Our big idea - wreck it - has the huge advantage of simplicity. We now just need
to add a few details."

Did he have any hints as to what the detail might be?

"Here's an example. The European Parliament, or the Brussels Fat Cat
Talking-Shop as we prefer to call it, has asked us to nominate spokesmen for
different areas. So, on economics, we shall have a Save-the-Pound spokesman.
Instead of a Culture Secretary, we'll be fielding a spokesman for Arty-Farty
Twaddle Done by Pretentious Foreigners. When it comes to education, the
portfolio will be for Politically Correct Nonsense Dreamt Up by a Hairy Danish
Sociologist to Brainwash British Kids. And so on."

Kilroy-Silk made great play on the amount of time European members spent in
restaurants. Would UKIP have a firm no-restaurant policy?

"We still have to work on the fine detail on that one," said the spokesman.
"What we're convinced of is that, once you start talking to Europeans, attending
their committees, receptions and seminars, one of the great strengths of British
politicians - a bone-headed distrust of anything foreign - will soon be
corrupted. You start out listening to some Belgian talking about tariffs and
soon you are being lured in the direction of the gravy train. Going out to lunch
is a dangerous part of that process."

It was time to address the question that bothered me most about the UKIP
position. Wasn't the very fact of attending an institution whose existence they
opposed something of a contradiction?

The DUH spokesman pondered for a moment. "The way we see it," he said
eventually, "is that, if we simply stayed at home, there was not much point in
having taken part in the elections. So, in the end, we decided to be present,
but in a generally obstreperous way. We shall sit together, making comments
about the way the foreigners talk and dress, heckling in a subtle way - singing
Five one, five one, five one' when a German gets up to speak, for example."

So UKIP would not be putting forward any policies of its own?

"Our plan is to play to the strength of our most famous member. When we are
asked to suggest legislative topics, we shall exploit Kilroy-Silk's TV
experience and come up with such topics as Help, I'm a sex addict', Dole cheats
- lock 'em up and throw away the key?' or I'm a single dad and looking for
love'. We hope to get a roving mike so that Bob can sit down beside MEPs and
ask, So, tell us your story, love'."

That would certainly be a new kind of politics for Europe.

"We like to think so."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              151 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 5, 2004, Monday

WHY I CAN NO LONGER SELL EUROPE TO THE BRITISH

BYLINE: JIM DOUGAL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 867 words


Last week I resigned from my job as Head of the European Commission in the
United Kingdom, because convincing people in the UK to tolerate, let alone love,
Europe, in present circumstances is an impossible task.

The bureaucracy in the Commission is stifling. The organisation has not yet come
to terms with the fall of the Santer Commission five years ago. Staff are more
interested in watching their backs than moving ahead. I came to the Commission
as a former broadcaster with, I hope, a skill in communications. However I spent
two years in London pushing paper around my desk, generally the same pieces of
paper recirculated, dealing with rules which appeared more to impede
communication than facilitate it.

Yet the Commission has taken on responsibility for selling Europe throughout the
Union. It should not hold this responsibility. Its own rules, regulations and
bureaucracy are too cumbersome for it to be effective. It talks about the need
to communicate with "le grand public" of Europe. There is of course no such
thing. There are now 25 publics and perhaps many more. How many different
publics are there in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland alone?

It should be the Government's job to present its European enterprise to its
people. That it has neglected this role is reflected in the numbers of people in
the UK who actually believe that the European Union will have an anthem praising
the EU "motherland". Or that the Commission is insisting that kilts worn by men
in Scotland must be classed as "women's wear"; or that when you climb a mountain
the landscape must, by European edict, be littered with signs telling you that
you are high up. And why does a great proportion of the UK population believe
this nonsense? Because they have been told so by much of the media and some
politicians. Two and three quarter million people voted for the United Kingdom
Independence Party. Many of them believe it.

But it is not good enough for those who, for one reason or another, have failed
to sell the European ideal, to blame this failure on the eurosceptic press and
the Euromyth industry. Those who hate the very thought of any European
integration have an open goal because nobody challenges them. The pro-European
lobby must get out of its permanently defensive and reactive mode. It must have
credible leaders and a credible voice.

A lost referendum and eventual withdrawal from the EU is now a possibility, by
default. If our Government wants to be at the heart of Europe, to be
decision-makers, it must take the initiative, and it should be on the offensive
now. It has, after all, signed up to any European legislation adopted in this
country. British ministers should have the guts to explain why to the people.
And they must initiate the debate. It cannot and will not be done by outsiders.

How could a Brussels Commission spokesman, as he did, extrapolate from the
pathetic European election turnout that the people wanted the European
Parliament to have more power? To most British people, Brussels is not just
unaccountable but remote. The heart of the European Union might as well be a
million miles away. Last week the European heads of government appointed the
Portuguese Prime Minister, Jose Manuel Durao Barrosa, to be the next President
of the Commission. I have no doubt Mr Barrosa is an able politician. But few
people outside Portugal had heard of him before the day his name was announced.
How could a PR consultant sell this appointment as a wonderful step forward to
the British public? It is nonsense to say the decision was reached by consensus.
This is lowest common denominator politics.

It is this kind of spectacle which has given Europe a bad name, and the same
thing happened on the last two occasions with the appointments of Romano Prodi
and Jacques Santer. The big countries could not agree on any other candidates
because they essentially want a weak, manipulable Commission.

It has been suggested that the next college of commissioners should get out
more. They should come and sell Europe to the UK. This would be a disaster.
Believe me they will not understand the UK and the UK will not understand them.
This is not xenophobia. It is a fact of life. I've watched them try, and with
few notable exceptions it does not work. Only the committed turn out to listen.

As the current Commission was approaching the last six months of its term, three
commissioners returned to jobs in their own countries. The outgoing president,
Mr Prodi, was preoccupied with Italian politics. What kind of leadership is
this?

If it is to represent the people, the EU must work more at intergovernmental
level with member states co-operating in areas where their national sovereign
interests dictate. What is wrong with opting out on important issues? We do it
already with the euro and open borders.

As a new Commission is established, EU governments should ensure that Brussels
is there to serve the member states, not promote its own agenda. That's what
governments are elected to do. In Tony Blair, we have a Prime Minister who
understands Europe. It is time his government took the lead. Soon it will be too
late.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              152 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 5, 2004, Monday

THE SCURRA

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 528 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEMONS: Evans; TANNED: KILROY


DON'T hold your breath for Chris Evans's long-awaited autobiography, Little Big
Shot. Originally due out last September, its launch date was postponed until
October this year.

Now, however, it looks as if the fading TV and radio star has abandoned all
plans to complete it.

"He was about three quarters of the way through but has just stopped writing,"
I'm told. "It has been postponed indefinitely and the publishers, HarperCollins,
have no idea if he'll ever deliver the completed manuscript."

David Jones, who wrote Freak Or Unique, a no-holds-barred unauthorised biography
of Evans, says: "My feeling is that Chris Evans has never been able to face his
own demons and probably feels the truth is too painful to confront.

"He never wanted to acknowledge he was bullied as a child, for example. He can't
live with the idea that he was ever a victim. And perhaps there are things in
his past that he doesn't want his mother to read.

"He's never been one for self analysis. He's always been one for glossing over
the more difficult aspects of his background." Now, Evans's publisher has two
choices - keep his contract open or demand he return his six-figure advance.

EWS that Danny La Rue has come out at last will have been less than a shock to
people who read Jim Davidson's autobiography.

In his book the comedian recalls telling Danny that his then girlfriend (Tracy
Hilton) had just given birth to his son, Charlie, and so he felt obligated to
get married.

"Why?" said Danny. "I had to. I had a little boy." Danny replied, "I've had lots
of little boys. I've never got married."

THE future of newly-crowned Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova was assured even
before her victory over Serena Williams, I learn.

At 6ft, with the gait of a catwalk model, she would soon have been in a position
not to get out of bed for less than $ 10,000 a day.

Her agent, Gavin Forbes of IMG, tells me: "She could have earned just as much if
not more from modelling because she's got the perfect combination of features to
be a top model but her passion is for tennis."

THE UK Independence Party has picked the right man to advise it on strategy
issues judging by the following extract. In a review of Bill Clinton's
autobiography, his former adviser Dick Morris writes: "As his pollster, I was
the one to whom he turned when he needed to ask: 'Mirror, mirror on the wall,
who is the fairest of them all?' I had considerable power. Narcissism in one's
clients can be pretty damn useful in my line of work."

As chief political strategist for UKIP, where he has to deal with the likes of
the perma-tanned Robert Kilroy-Silk, Morris is clearly in his element.

LAWYERS and judges are being invited to a lecture entitled The Conduct Of A
Public Inquiry at Inner Temple Hall on 27 July.

And who is the distinguished speaker lined up to pass on the fruits of his
wisdom? Er, Lord Hutton, the man behind the inquiry into the death of Dr David
Kelly and the sexed-up dossier row - widely perceived as being one of the least
credible reports of recent times.

As one observer says: "Presumably it's a case of do as I say, not as I do."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              153 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2004, Monday

Like Nixon, Tories count on southern comfort

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1346 words


IN THE autumn of 1967 Richard Nixon made one of the ritual visits to London
which American presidential candidates like to make. He was invited to lunch in
Grays Inn Road by Roy Thomson, who had bought The Times the year before. Ted
Heath, then the Leader of the Opposition, was also present.

Nixon made one of the more memorable short political speeches I have heard. He
explained how he would win the presidency for the Republicans with his Southern
strategy. He would carry the Southern states, and his home state of California,
and create a more or less permanent Republican majority, like the majority the
Democrats had enjoyed when they dominated the South.

Since that time the Republicans have won both Houses of Congress and six out of
nine presidential elections; even the Democrats who did win the presidency,
Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, were Southern governors. In 2004 Nixon's strategy
is still the basis of President Bush's re-election campaign.

In Britain we are not accustomed to analyse our elections in the same regional
terms, though it has always been possible to do so. However, Europe has changed
that, by counting the votes by local districts, and reporting them in terms of
the 11 regions of Great Britain - Scotland, Wales and the nine regions of
England. I have spent a couple of days studying the June European election
results. The patterns stand out very clearly, but they are different from first
impressions.

Probably the most important is the North-South divide. In the European elections
the less prosperous parts of the North and West belonged to Labour, but the
sphere of prosperity radiating out from London belonged to the Conservatives.
The Conservatives won their majorities in areas of economic growth and
expansion; Labour won its majorities in areas of relative economic decline.

On a 38 per cent national turnout, the Conservatives had the largest share of
the vote in six regions -East Midlands, West Midlands, East, London, South East
and South West. These six regions have a total electorate of 26.24 million.
Labour had the largest share of the vote in five regions, North East, North
West, Yorkshire and Humberside, Scotland and Wales, with a total electorate of
only 16.84 million.

The Conservative dominance in their six regions can be shown by the number of
voting districts in which they had the largest share of the vote. In those six
regions, which account for two thirds of the total electorate, the Conservatives
won in 202 voting districts, while Labour won only 42. By contrast, Labour was
less dominant in its strong regions, which account for just a third of the total
electorate. In the five Labour regions, Labour won 104 voting districts, to 57
for the Conservatives.

The voting districts are of unequal size. For instance, the London boroughs,
which went Conservative by a narrow majority of 16 to 14, were counted
separately, but Birmingham and some other big cities were counted as single
units. This exaggerates the Conservative lead. Nevertheless, the Conservatives
had a much larger number of victories than Labour in regions with a much larger
total electorate.

If the Conservatives were able to reproduce these results at a general election
they would dominate the South and middle of England, and probably win an overall
majority. They were even picking up support in some Midland cities.

They won Northampton, which has two Labour MPs, though one is very marginal, by
26.8 to 18.8 per cent of the vote, with the UKIP on 24.6 per cent, coming
second.

The success of the UKIP was the story on the night of the results, and rightly
so.

It more than doubled its share of the vote on the 1999 figures, and came ahead
of the Liberal Democrats. However, its support is also regional, and it follows
the same pattern as the Conservatives.

The UKIP did not come first in any of the regions, but came second, beating both
Labour and the Lib Dems, in four of the six regions won by the Conservatives. In
East Midlands it came very close to overtaking the Conservatives.

The conventional wisdom is that the UKIP is a greater danger to the
Conservatives than to Labour and the Liberal Democrats. This seems to me to be
static thinking.

It assumes, as socialists used to believe, that there is a fixed supply of
votes, which has only to be divided up. I would take a dynamic view of the
voting process. The UKIP managed to dramatise the European issue, on both
British membership, on which it differs from the Conservatives, and the European
constitution, on which it agrees.

As a result some people voted for the UKIP who would otherwise have voted
Conservative. But other people voted Conservative because they were made to
realise how important the European issue was to them. This second group might
otherwise have voted Labour, Lib Dem, or, more probably, not at all. Of course,
the UKIP did take votes from the Conservatives, whose share of the votes was
lower in the European elections than in the local elections on the same day. But
the UKIP also created support for Euro scepticism as such, and took votes from
the other major parties.

One can see this process in the results of the individual districts. The
Conservatives came first in 259 districts, Labour in 146, the Lib Dems in 15 and
the UKIP in 20. But the UKIP came second in 126 districts, in 118 of which the
Conservatives still managed to come first. To some extent, it was the UKIP which
changed the weather. That was particularly true of Robert Kilroy-Silk's campaign
in the East Midlands.

An extreme example is what happened in Torbay, though the parliamentary
constituency is not identical with the Torbay voting district for Europe. At the
2001 general election the Lib Dems came first with 50.5 per cent of the vote;
the Conservatives came second with 36.4; Labour had 9.4 and the UKIP a mere 3.2.
In the European elections of 2004 the UKIP came first with 35.1 per cent, the
Conservatives second with 30.4, the Lib Dems third with 13.9, while the Labour
vote, surprisingly, perked up to 10.8. The UKIP won, but there was a 15 per cent
swing from the Lib Dems to the Conservatives.

None of this tells us what is going to happen at the next election. After 1999
the Conservative victory in the European elections did not carry over into the
following general election, despite William Hague's campaign to defend the
pound.

Yet the situation in 2005 or 2006 might be very different, with the Government
committed to ratifying the European constitution, which the country can be
expected to reject if and when there is a referendum. Europe will be a bigger
election issue than it was in 2001.

The European results do not tell us when a Conservative breakthrough will come,
but where it would be. Both the Conservatives and the UKIP have shown that their
strongest appeal is in the Midlands and South, the area of rising prosperity.

These people, in broad terms, want independence at every level, for themselves,
their families, their businesses, and their country, though they are far from
being Little Englanders, whatever that may mean. They do not necessarily
sympathise with the UKIP's policy of leaving the EU, but are determined not to
be swallowed up by Europe. The Conservative Party, because of its history, is
the natural party for such people, though it still has more to do to regain
their confidence. They see the UKIP more as an ally than an enemy. Many UKIP
voters of 2004 will no doubt vote Conservative on broader issues at the next
general election.

When a long-term Conservative majority is created, it will be because these
people united to elect a Conservative government. The potential majority already
exists in the combined Conservative and UKIP votes in England, 44.8 per cent in
West Midlands, 52.5 in East Midlands, 50.4 in East, 39.1 in London, 54.7 in
South East, 54.2 in South West. That, like Nixon's Southern strategy in and
after 1967, could be a winning hand for future elections.

Join the Debate at comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2004, Monday

Let's hear it for the king of pun-ditry

BYLINE: Christine Wheeler

SECTION: Sport; 32

LENGTH: 1299 words


GARY LINEKER is carefully sewing a second tournament-winning star on to his
starched BBC shirt -ironed, if some readers had their way, by Gabby Logan. Yes,
he's done it again and it's congrats all round. But that doesn't quite make Gary
a national treasure. The top of the pundits' poll can be a lonely and
uncomfortable place; one slip and it's back to quiz shows.

Plucky Gabby put up a hell of a fight and almost, with your help, broke through
football's glass ceiling. But in the end your nerve failed you and it was ladies
first, after you Mrs Logan, let us hold the studio door for you. Terribly sorry,
but do you really want to fill your pretty little head with all that rough
footie stuff?

Some readers cling to the hope that it's still a man's game; if you voted for a
girlie where would it end? But at least there was little call for Gabby to pop
off and make the half-time snacks. Readers are still coming to terms with a game
contaminated with Alice bands, leased goldfish, dinky sandwiches, corporate
boxes, foreign managers, Russian oligarchs, Greece still there at the end,
Liverpool never there at the end. But footie and birds on TV? That's a marketing
step too far.

But don't get too smug, Gary, watching you is not even close to watching Brazil:
performances devoid of any subtle moves delivered with a light touch: instead we
still got clunking puns thudding to the studio floor. If you are going to stay
up all night chewing your crayon to think them up, we expect something better
than "bouncing Czechs". And don't let your head get bigger than your ears. You
are now a very tall poppy ripe for hacking down. Remember Des? Remember France?
Remember Anthea Turner? A readers' "Gary Must Go" committee has voted Graham
Taylor president; he's the only one to have successfully yanked you off the
screen.

Let's face it. Gary, almost anyone who could form a complete sentence in
something approaching English, who was not a woman -and definitely was not Ian
Wright had the advantage. The opposition was even more dire than usual; the San
Marino of punditry. Who was going to stop you? Alan Hansen? All you did was sit
there and let everyone else give away punditry penalties. Your jokes might be
rubbish, but compared to Ally McCoist's they're cutting edge comedy. However, if
you were any more syrupy you could be spread on toast.

Who, besides Gabby (who has lost the Premiership), could give Gary a run for his
money? Certainly not the usual suspects from the last century, slumped in their
chairs, ever more complacent.

Where is the equivalent of Sharapova to discombobulate the old order? It is a
depressing thought that he of the creosote fence (all the better for sitting on)
will soon retire: what price a comfortable billet for Mr Shearer in the studio?
Well, serve us right for moaning about Wrighty, McCoist and Motty. Gary's
position suddenly looks unassailable. We had all better learn to love him.

AND THE WINNER IS ...

GARY LINEKER

CLIVE TYLDESLEY

evicted on June 16

IAN WRIGHT

evicted on June 18

JOHN MOTSON

evicted on June 21

ALLY McCOIST

evicted on June 23

PETER REID

evicted on June 25

JAMIE REDKNAPP

evicted on June 28

GRAHAM TAYLOR

evicted on June 30

DES LYNAM

evicted on July 2

AND GABBY LOGAN

evicted on July 5

(and a big thank you to the hundreds of readers who contributed their wit and
wisdom to Big Bother 2)

GARY LINEKER WON THE COMPETITION ON JULY 5

EVICTED ON MONDAY, JULY 5

"We could rely on him to keep us entertained. Stays for being the best
performing Englishman at Euro 2004."

Gary v Gabby is the football eqivalent of Cliff Richard v Carol Smillie: what
sort of choice is that? At least Gary doesn't sing when it rains and we could
rely on his rapier wit to keep us entertained when England could not. Stays for
being the best performing Englishman at Euro 2004. Sorry, Gabby, but it's ladies
first.

Bill Greenwell

Two left, eh? One with soft, gentle lines and saucer eyes; the other a
hardbitten football veteran with solid eyes, one liners and in depth football
knowledge.

Sorry, Gabby.

Ken Woodhouse

Graham Taylor wasn't afraid to get Gary off the pitch and we shouldn't be
frightened to kick him out. The thought of him surviving and sitting alone and
smug...

David Hall

Gary looks as though he's just eaten all Wrighty's crisps. Please spare us his
self-satisfied grin if he wins.

Sue Appleton

GABBY LOGAN

EVICTED ON MONDAY, JULY 5

I stuck with Gary during World Cup Big Bother, but he has reigned unscathed for
too long. Should have volunteered to throw himself off the lifeboat to give
someone else a chance, but he would have bobbed up like a cork. Unlike Gabby, no
family football tradition, no shiny lips, in no sense stylish and the BBC won't
show his legs.

Ron Fawcett

Desperate to be regarded as a serious sports presenter but Gabby often looks
like Bambi caught on the M25 wondering why her agent didn't get her The Vault.

Kieron Bramall

Gabby's looks, intelligence and football knowledge are tragically undermined by
such a lack of gravity that one suspects she has to be tethered to the
presenter's chair lest she ascend to her rightful place alongside Winton, Roslin
and McCall in the celebrity ionosphere.

Jamie March (prize winner)

Gorgeous, knowledgeable, witty and entertaining, but she's not Gary.

Oliver Cox

Not presenting live games from Portugal has been Gabby's downfall. Why didn't
they let her interview the England wives? On the bus home.

Johnny Whalen

Reminds me of Lady Penelope in Thunderbirds -saucer eyes, starbright teeth and
puppet-like responses. Only the strings are missing. Alan Cowley

For declaring that Italy had been sent home without a win, having just concluded
her analysis of Italy's 2-1 victory over Bulgaria.

Stephen Booth

Yes, Gabby, we know you can never write off Germans, the Dutch are prone to
in-fighting and the Latvians are minnows. Tell us something we don't know.

David Cowan

Gabby's role of keeping the naughty boys apart is over, so she can be relieved
of that important motherly chore, go home and cook the dinner.

K. Bradly

Gary out. "Switzerland never got out of neutral." "Portugal discovered the
difficulty of getting Greece out" (geddit?). Dutch clockwork orange, Czech mate:
too-thought-out gags delivered with a wink and a salt and Lineker smile. Evict
before he produces even more Eurogags. Is he after the UKIP vote?

John Bailey

"The Swiss have yet to move out of neutral -no change there then". How many
times did we hear this?

Jon Harvey

The girl done good, but the boy done better. We enjoyed the gift of the Gabby,
but I'm afraid it's goodbye.

Ian Binder

It's a man's game, and no amount of blonde fringe-flicking can conceal the fact
that Gabby doesn't seem to know what she's talking about. Being easy on the eye
is just not enough.

Tom Adam

Gabby will be OK once Uncle Lynam has disappeared from the screen.

Hriday Pandey

No moustache, no future.

James Norman

Very pretty. Can we say that about Des or Gary?

Alex Gittins

Like the other Totti, Gabby should have been banned from the tournament.

Alan Townsend

Chauvinistic? Or realistic? Would Tyson be taken seriously as a frontman at a
netball tournament?

Bill McFadyen

Hair, teeth, glamour -the pundit equivalent of Cristiano Ronaldo.

Alex Woodward

Gary is just a frothy immitation of Des. Visibly winds himself up for the
predictable parting tag-line. A fully qualified cringe generator.

K. Dadley

Insufferable boy!

Paul Sanderson

"Often looks like Bambi caught on the M25 in the rush hour and wondering why her
agent didn't get her The Vault."


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  July 4, 2004

Observer Sport Monthly: Back flick: FIRST AND LAST GEOFFREY BOYCOTT CRICKETER
AND PROFESSIONAL YORKSHIREMAN

BYLINE: Interview by Nick Greenslade

SECTION: Observer Sports Magazine, Pg. 53

LENGTH: 767 words


GEOFFREY BOYCOTT WAS born in Fitzwilliam, Yorkshire in 1940. He played for his
home county from 1961 until 1986. First capped by England in 1964, he made 108
Test appearances, scoring 8114 runs at an average of 47.72. He is a cricket
commentator.

First time you met Michael Parkinson?

I was a 16-year-old playing for Barnsley and he must have been about five years
older than me. When I got dropped from the first team, Michael replaced me. He
made a 100 against Harrogate, something he never tires of telling people about.
Michael could have been a very good player. In the Minor Counties.

Last game of cricket?

September 12 1986 at Scarborough, playing for Yorkshire. I walked off the pitch
at exactly 5.21pm. I showered, waited for all the players to leave, then had a
final stroll around the ground. I felt a real sadness but I knew I wouldn't play
again, no matter how much money people wanted to give me. And there were some
big offers.

First time you played for England?

In 1964 against Australia. I found out I was in the team on the Sunday then got
a century for Yorkshire on the Monday, finished the game on Tuesday, went home
for a change of clothes and reported for nets at 3pm on Wednesday. I had to get
a lift with friends there and back. It wasn't like today when every 17-year-old
thinks he ought to have his own car.

Last Test century?

Delhi 1981, 3rd Test v. India. I was 41 at the time and almost at the end of my
international career.

First drink?

I was never a drinker. In fact, I don't think it was until my late thirties when
I recorded my hundredth hundred against the Australians at Headingley that I
tried a glass of wine or champagne. And that's all it was - a glass.

Last time you bought a round?

When did anyone last buy a drink for me? Never, that's when. We've got a culture
in this country where anyone who doesn't go out drinking with the lads is
automatically viewed with suspicion. If I didn't go into the bar, why should I
stump up for others?

First time you bowled for England?

It was in the World Cup in 1979. I bowled with my cap back to front not because
I thought it was trendy but because I could see where I was going. I think I
told Desmond Haynes that if I got him out I would call him every month in
Barbados to remind him.

Last time you ran somebody out?

It was me, would you believe, in that final game at Scarborough. Everyone goes
on about my running between the wickets and the time when I ran Derek Randall
out at Trent Bridge. What they don't take into account is the fact that I batted
longer than anyone else, so statistically it's not surprising that I should be
involved in more run-outs. Not that that would have consoled poor Derek.

First time you met Ian Botham?

I thought it was during his first Test in 1977, which was also my comeback game,
but Ian later told me that he had sometimes bowled to me while he was on the MCC
ground staff at Lord's.

Last time you stuck your key into the pitch?

It was a few years ago that the ICC stopped me doing that during my pitch
report. If you ask me, groundsmen have become too precious about their pitches.
It's all bloody stupid.

First time you came up with the term 'corridor of uncertainty'?

During the England tour of the Caribbean in 1990. It was the first proper spell
of commentating I did for Sky. It was a phrase I came up with on the spot.

Last CD you bought?

(Long Pause) Oh, it was Whitney Houston. She's got a fantastic voice. I mean,
The Bodyguard , what an album! I don't like the way she's carried on in her
private life, though. All those drugs - what a silly girl.

First told you had cancer?

It was on 14 August 2002 that I found the lump and on 3 September the surgeon
called to say that it was cancerous. That was when the nightmare truly began.
They usually wait five years before they give you the all clear but I'm doing
okay.

Last non-cricket event you enjoyed?

Manchester United have probably been my biggest sporting passion outside
cricket. I go to Old Trafford three times a season and they look after me
superbly. I would, however, like to see their footballers conduct themselves
better.

First involvement with the UK Independence Party?

I'm not involved; I just voted for them in the recent elections. I'm not a
political animal, just somebody who feels very let down by the politicians. I
don't respect them because I don't think they give a shit about us.

The first Test between England and West Indies, at Lord's, begins on 22 July. It
is live on Channel 4.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  July 4, 2004

Comment: Letters to the Editor: Survival symbols

BYLINE: A.K. Wiedmann

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 126 words


Should one laugh or weep at Jason Cowley's lachrymose celebration of the
football clash between England and Portugal? ('Passion play', 27 June).
According to Cowley, tribal nationalism is in, while such creeds as Marxism,
colonialism, socialism, environmentalism and liberal internationalism have
allegedly failed us.

Note how the last three rational creeds are deliberately linked with two dodgy
ideologies.

We badly need unifying myths, rituals and symbols if we want to survive as a
species. The old tribal mythologies are too murderous and divisive. They thrust
us back to the dark ages of opportunistic figures such as Kilroy-Silk, whose UK
Independence Party is determined to wreck a united Europe.

A.K. Wiedmann

London NW3


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              July 4, 2004, Sunday

Self-defeating

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 71 words


SELF-DEFEATING: If Stan Fitzgerald really wants to prevent us slipping further
into the Brussels mire (Letters, last week), a vote for UKIP at the general
election would be counterproductive. The result would be a defeat for
Eurosceptic Conservatives and victory for Labour and Lib Dems keen to take us
ever further into the mire that he fears. -Theresa Villiers, Conservative MEP
for the London region, Brussels.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Points; Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              July 4, 2004, Sunday

Chris Patten

BYLINE: Edited Louise Armitstead

SECTION: Business; Business; 16

LENGTH: 94 words


A LINE-UP of ex-politicians are set to make a fortune by speaking about the
enlarged European Union. Chris Patten, the former EU commissioner, has been
offered £30,000 a speech by the European Speakers Bureau. Ex-prime minister John
Major is worth £40,000 a pop, more than one-time EU president Jacques Delors who
fetches just £25,000.

Now chat-show host Robert Kilroy-Silk, the face of the anti-EU UK Independence
party, wants a share, too. But he is being offered only £7,000 apparently not
all his views are suitable for dinner parties.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prufrock

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  July 3, 2004

Burglars go undetected. Their victim goes to jail

BYLINE: CHRIS BROOKE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 684 words



THE victim of a series of burglaries who refused to pay part of his council tax
in protest at the police's failure to solve the crimes was jailed yesterday.

Richard North decided to make a stand after his house was broken into five times
and police 'did nothing about it', a court heard.

The 53-year-old author said ' virtually every house in the street', in a quiet
suburb of Bradford, had also been burgled and an elderly neighbour mugged on her
doorstep.

The final straw came when his wife's car was broken into and her briefcase
stolen.

When his council tax bill arrived, North deducted Pounds 78 the annual police
precept from his payment. Coincidentally, this was also the cost of repairs to
his wife's car.

North was summonsed to appear in court for the unpaid part of the bill, which
had risen to Pounds 272 because of additional fines and costs, but refused to
back down He told Bradford magistrates' court: 'This is an uncomfortable point
of principle but I have had it up to here with this system, its lack of
responsibility and blind stupidity and total inadequacies.' He said he was not
willing to pay for a service he was not receiving, adding: 'If the police force
insist on calling themselves a service and me a customer then I'm exercising my
right not to pay for a service that is clearly not being redeemed.' He said
while he was in jail the criminals who raided his home and his wife's car would
be ' roaming free', adding: 'As they say, you couldn't make it up.' Asked by
prosecutor Margaret Howard if he realised he faced being jailed for non-payment,
he said: 'I would have to be mentally retarded not to be aware of that. I am at
the end of my tether.' Magistrates' chairman Brian Venables told him: 'We have
listened carefully to your reasons.

'However, we find you guilty of wilful refusal to pay the tax. You have been
given ample opportunities but you have chosen to wear your hair shirt to the
end.' After being sentenced to 14 days in jail, North, an agriculture expert and
former researcher for UKIP, offered to pay 'under protest'.

After being told payment would have to be in cash he changed his mind, saying:
'This is ridiculous.' Security guards then led him away and he was driven to
Armley Prison, a Category B jail in Leeds.

After the case, North's wife Mary said she was 'totally disgusted' by what had
happened.

'I'm in total shock,' she said.

'Richard is a man of his principles and if he believes in something then he will
stick to his guns right till the very end. If he thinks he's justified then he
will fight not only for himself but for anyone in the same situation.' The
classroom assistant, who has been married to North for 33 years, said: 'He
refused to pay because he is disillusioned with the police force and doesn't
'We've been broken into more times than I can remember and it has taken the
police three or four days to get here sometimes.

'They have taken the TV, video - it's normally electrical goods so they can sell
them on easily.

'But we've even had things stolen while we have been in the house or hanging out
the washing.

It's just non-stop.' She described the court case as 'absolutely ridiculous'.

'I didn't think it would come to this,' she added. 'No matter what has happened
I am totally behind him and will support him all the way. I will do whatever it
takes to help him and back him.' Mrs North said she had not spoken to her
husband since the court case and was waiting to tell their two children Emma,
28, and Peter, 24 that their father will not be home for 14 days.

Neighbours in Sharp Street also spoke of their shock. Marise Myers, 32, said: 'I
can't believe it, they're such a nice, quiet family. It seems like such a stupid
decision.' The married mother-of-one said her family had also been the victim of
burglaries. 'We've been burgled four times in the last eight years. I think
pretty much everyone on the street has been hit once or twice.

'We are moving away and one of the main reasons is because you just don't know
when you will get robbed again.'

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RICHARD NORTH: HIS HOME, ABOVE, WAS BROKEN INTO FIVE TIMES BUT HE
CLAIMS POLICE 'DID NOTHING'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              160 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 3, 2004, Saturday

THE WEEK IN POLITICS: HOWARD MAY HAVE LOST THE CHANCE TO REBRAND

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 943 words


WHEN MICHAEL Howard became Tory leader last November, his advisers compiled a
list of the voters' concerns. They drew an important dividing line between
"rants" over Europe, immigration, asylum and crime and "moans" about health,
education and the economy.

The "rants" were a passing protest, a way for people to get things off their
chest, as many Conservatives did by voting for the UK Independence Party (UKIP)
in last month's European elections. The "moans" were the deeper concerns that
will determine how people will vote at the general election.

The conclusions of Mr Howard's team explain why the Tories have gone on to the
offensive over health and education in the past two weeks, unveiling a long list
of goodies such as an end to hospital waiting lists, much greater choice of
schools and an extra pounds 34bn for health and pounds 15bn for education.

It all looked good at first. But, watching Mr Howard unveiling his education
plans on Tuesday, I couldn't help thinking that people might regard it as too
good to be true. Tony Blair's "trust" ratings may have fallen through the floor
but sensible Tories know that does not produce an automatic bonus for them
because people distrust politicians generally.

"Did we get a draw on health and education?" one Shadow Cabinet minister asked
me excitedly. It was a revealing question. I replied that they had lost 3-2, but
that wasn't bad since they had started the game 3-0 down. Coincidentally,
football analogies were also the order of the day in Downing Street. Mr Blair's
aides agreed that the Tories were "playing away" on Labour's natural ground.
"They are trying to get a draw on public services so that they can move on to
their issues, Europe, immigration and asylum," one said.

Team Howard denies that, insisting the party will not repeat William Hague's
mistake at the 2001 general election. He was given a similar message by Tory
officials, who urged him to campaign on public services, but opted to fight on
Europe. The rest is history.

But Mr Howard banging on about public services until the election expected next
May does not guarantee he will be successful. An important piece of
repositioning has come in the past two weeks. After an intense internal debate,
the Tories decided to cool their politically dangerous flirtation with the
private sector, knowing it provides ammunition for Labour to say the Tories
would privatise public services.

So the health "passport" has been tweaked, to put the emphasis on patients
having treatment at any NHS hospital. And the Tories finally made clear that
parents could not put their school "vouchers" towards the cost of an education
at private schools charging fees of more than pounds 5,500 a year, the average
of cost of a state education.

The changes are designed to reassure voters that the Tories are committed to
public services, and neutralise Labour's well-worn attacks.

But I suspect that Mr Howard has not gone far enough. The most headline-grabbing
aspect of his health policy remains that a Tory government would pay up to 50
per cent of the cost if patients opt for private treatment. The move is
well-intentioned.

The Tories' hearts tell them that 300,000 people each year without private
health insurance are paying for one-off treatment and deserve help.

But the Tories' heads should have told them otherwise because their policy
reinforces Labour's "privatisation" charge. And the Tories may be behind the
curve: there is evidence that people who were "paying as they go" for private
treatment are returning to a slowly but surely improving NHS, and that private
health firms are cutting their prices to compete with it.

Similarly, the schools voucher is designed to foster the creation of a new wave
of private schools with low fees. However laudable the aim, it may send the same
signal to the voters, allowing Labour to make the same dividing line as on
health: Labour wants to keep people in the state system, while the Tories want
them to opt out. That will suit Mr Blair nicely.

Labour ministers are under no illusions that people still need a lot of
convincing that public services have improved. But there was some cautious
optimism around the cabinet table on Thursday when Michael Barber, head of Mr
Blair's Delivery Unit, presented his latest progress report. He claimed a
"widespread and significant" improvement in services was starting to filter
through to the public, and to close the gap between people's "national
pessimism" about the state of services generally and their more optimistic
personal experience. "It is growing, if grudging" one Blair aide told me.

Some ministers left Thursday's meeting hoping that the Government just might
have reached a turning point. If voters really do believe things are getting
better, it will make it much easier for Labour to sell its new round of reforms,
which will not then look like an admission of seven years of failure.

To try to keep the spotlight on public services, the Cabinet agreed to issue
another raft of "five-year plans" this autumn, on welfare, trade and industry
and the under-fives. Labour, rather than the Tories, is making the political
weather. The grumbles of discontent in the Conservative Party at Mr Howard's
failure to make a breakthrough are getting louder. In fine-tuning the Tories'
approach to public services, he may have missed an opportunity to rebrand the
party.

It seems that the Tories just cannot help flirting with the private sector. They
should have ended the relationship. When the election comes, it may prove a
fatal attraction.

a.grice@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              161 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2004, Saturday

They Said ...

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 78 words


'If there was a lie detector test to get in here, the place would be empty'

Paul Sykes, financier and senior strategist of the UK Independence Party, on
Parliament

'They put the McCartney set after the watershed while this happens at lunchtime'

A Glastonbury fan on ENO's raunchy version of The Valkyries

'No, I don't have a boyfriend. I'm waiting for Prince William'

Tatiana Golovin, 16, one of Wimbledon's blonde successors to Anna Kournikova


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2004, Saturday

Pull yourselves together Tories and make tax cuts your cause

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: Features; 30

LENGTH: 1538 words


MICHAEL HOWARD is getting bogged down. Nobody put it better than our own Peter
Riddell when he wrote that the new Tory leader was doing a magnificent job
enthusing the sales force, but so far still failing to attract new customers.

It is early days, but the Opposition ought to be worried, and is. Michael Howard
is beginning to flail around at Prime Minister's Questions. At a time when the
Labour Government and its leader have lost public trust and show no sign of
knowing how to get it back, new Labour's nerve remains surprisingly steady,
while disillusioned voters are simply sulking. They are still not coming back in
any number to the Tory party.

To continue, then, with Peter Riddell's metaphor, it is not too early to take a
frank and careful look at the product. What does the Opposition offer for sale?

A party running for government is selling people and policies. The people are
its frontbench spokesmen, who hope to become ministers; plus its backbenchers,
who hope to be returned by their constituents at the next election. In both
cases Mr Howard is more or less stuck with the crowd he's got.

The Opposition front bench is of mixed calibre and it is a thousand pities that
the few Tories the public do remember and respect, such as Kenneth Clarke, are
not a more visible part of the team. His front bench is not a disaster, just a
ragbag -but so was Margaret Thatcher's and Tony Blair's when they sat in Mr
Howard's place. A Shadow Cabinet of young nobodies and old has-beens did not
stop either winning.

So much for the people. They'll do. But how about the Tory product? There are
two aspects to a successful sales drive: the qualities of the product itself,
and the brand image with which it becomes associated in customers' minds.

Policies are the Tory product, and there is a whole range. On defence and
foreign affairs Conservatives are on secure ground because the party possesses
reserves of wisdom and experience in such matters and the Tory brand is safe and
solid. But unexciting. This is unlikely to be the key issue for many voters at a
general election.

On Europe the Tories' product -cautious scepticism -is in a spot of difficulty
because they are being outflanked by the flashier and more extreme UKIP
alternative, yet if they lurch towards an incendiary sort of anti-Europeanism
they may scare a different batch of voters. All the Opposition can do is stay
calm, ratchet up its scepticism a notch or two but not too far, and hope that
the UKIP burns itself out. It may. Michael Howard is well placed to walk this
tightrope and seems to be doing it with care and nerve. He needs to watch his
back on the issue of immigration, however, for the UKIP may see scope for
exploiting fears of overcrowding.

I have so far recited a little list of policy products with which the Tories can
hope at least to hold their own and perhaps make a few extra sales; but if among
these there is any policy plum big and juicy enough to swing an election for
them, then I have failed to spot it.

Which leaves two big issues: public services and taxation. As Michael Howard
well knows, the Tory brand on public services is weak, and on taxation strong.
But because it is hard to shout loud about cutting tax without sounding careless
of public services, and hard to promise much on public services without sounding
careless over tax, the Conservative leader is in a cleft stick, or thinks he is.

So he seems to have decided to think hard and talk loud about ways of improving
public services, and shut up on the issue of taxation. He hopes that voters
already know and trust Tory instincts on tax. This is an eminently intelligent
strategy. And it is not working. It is time for the Tories to get stupid again,
and play to their strengths.

Anthony Seldon's immense and unilluminating new book about the Prime Minister,
Blair, through which I have been ploughing for today's Weekend Review,
unwittingly stumbles upon a curious feature of Tony Blair's attitude to
"delivering" radically better public services.

He assumes you can -an assumption shared by many politicians and much of the
news media these days. A picture is painted of a frustrated prime minister
pacing his study and raging against his advisors' and civil servants' failure to
provide him with a plan for improving public services.

"Bloody hell," he seems to mutter, "health and education are obviously in need
of improvement -item. I and my party have very publicly promised to deliver
improvement -item. The job of advisers is to advise -item. And I've ordered them
to -item. So where's the plan, eh?"

It is as though Mr Blair had placed an order but received nothing through the
letterbox; so he has concluded that the goods have been lost in the post. How
maddening. Someone had better chase this up. As if a politician's job is to
divine the needs of the populace and state his demands -and Whitehall's job is
to meet them.

Somebody needs to tell this Prime Minister, and somebody would have to tell a
Conservative prime minister, what I suspect the electorate already knows: that
just because a party leader has promised to "transform" the delivery of public
services does not mean that anything so striking is possible. Quarts and pint
pots come to mind. Both Mr Blair and Mr Howard ought to consider the possibility
that our much-derided, super-centralised monolith of a NHS delivers about as
much health, and "choice", as can be squeezed out of the money available.
Somebody failed to tell the last Conservative Government that in transport terms
our much-derided, super-centralised monolith, British Rail, was doing just that.

We are passing through the most almighty fad for "diversity" and "choice" at
present. In its exaggerated regard for Thatcherism and private enterprise new
Labour has scared itself into thinking that only Tory think-tanks know how to
reform the delivery of public services, with the result that both parties are
now chasing the same handful of rather wispy, complicated and problematic
proposals for public service reform, and screaming at each other across the
floor of the House about private finance, patient choice, patients' passports,
teacher choice, pupil choice, moveable discounts, and the like. The voters find
all this unpersuasive but, forced to choose, tell themselves that, on public
services at least, new Labour's heart is in the right place. They are not at all
sure about the Conservative Party's heart.

So Michael Howard is doomed to lose these dispatch-box encounters. This does not
mean that he should not keep trying to neutralise the assumption that Tories
don't care about these things, but there is a limit to the headway he can make,
because the strength of the Tory brand is its association with keeping taxes
down. Horror of taxation is thought to be in the Conservative Party's DNA.

But just as Labour has been scared by the Tories out of the idea that you can
improve public services top-down, Conservatives have been scared by Labour out
of the idea that voters might like to pay less tax. Oliver Letwin, the Shadow
Chancellor, sounds distinctly doubtful about this proposition.

He should pull himself together. Here is natural Tory territory that Labour dare
not invade. There are bold and popular headlines to be won on tax reforms which
could be more cheaply financed than Conservatives have scared themselves into
thinking.

Inheritance tax raises peanuts but worries far more voters than are ever likely
to have to pay much of it. The middle class have sleepless nights about it. The
rich avoid it anyway. Sweep it away.

Nobody I know is fooled by the separation of so-called national insurance from
income tax. It's all income tax. Merge them and do it in the name of tax
honesty.

And nobody -nobody, that is, whose brain has not been addled by Treasury
mumbo-jumbo -can understand why a person earning less than £10,000 a year should
pay any income tax at all. Most people in this bracket are in receipt of a
variety of benefits of one sort or another. The Chancellor takes with one hand,
then gives back with the other. Of course, raising the threshold to £10,000
would benefit all taxpayers so would be costly; but it should not be beyond the
ingenuity of the Treasury to find adjustments to other thresholds and taxes that
would broadly neutralise the effect of this change -except upon its intended
beneficiaries: the working poor. Tories approve of the working poor: this goes
with the grain of their brand.

I am no financial wizard, but those who are will point out that less of the
State's income than most people think -not much more than a quarter -comes from
income tax. It follows that quite affordable reforms would inspire generous
headlines, out of proportion to their fiscal importance.

But I sense that the Conservative Party has talked itself into a sort of
paralysis on the one area of policy where its instincts are likely to be
believed, and approved of. Beneath a crisp and decisive exterior, Michael Howard
is a more timid policymaker than may appear. But faint hearts never won
elections. It is time for the Tories to get back in touch with their inner
certainties.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 2, 2004

KILROY-SILK CLEARED IN RACE CASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 149 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk was cleared of inciting racial hatred yesterday over his
controversial newspaper column about Arabs.

The new Euro MP was investigated by Scotland Yard after the Commission for
Racial Equality lodged an official complaint.

The target of the CRE's fury was his controversial column in the Sunday Express
of January 4 headed: "We Owe Arabs Nothing."

In the storm that followed, the former Labour MP, who last month won a seat at
Brussels as a member of the UK Independence Party, stood by his views and his
right to express them. But the BBC pulled the plug on his popular morning chat
show.

A senior Crown Prosecution Service lawyer said yesterday: "However offensive the
material might be, we are constrained by law as to what we can and cannot
prosecute and in this case we have had to advise the police that a criminal
offence has not been committed."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              164 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 2, 2004

NEWS IN BRIEF; KILROY CLEARED OF RACE SLUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 129 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk was cleared of inciting racial hatred yesterday over his
column about Arabs.

The new Euro MP was investigated by Scotland Yard when the Commission for Racial
Equality lodged a complaint after the piece in editions of the Sunday Express of
January 4 headed: "We Owe Arabs Nothing."

In the storm that followed, the former Labour MP, who last month won a seat at
Brussels as a member of the UK Independence Party, stood by his views. But the
BBC pulled the plug on his morning chat show.

A Crown Prosecution Service lawyer said yesterday:

"However offensive the material, we are constrained by law as to what we can and
cannot prosecute, and, in this case, we have had to advise the police that a
criminal offence has not been committed."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              165 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 2, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Workers are protected in this union: Europe offers rights to
employees that are the envy of the world

BYLINE: Denis MacShane:

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 782 words


Once again, we are hearing trade union tom-toms beating out a message about
saying no to Europe and the EU's constitutional treaty. Nothing could be more
dangerous to the future of British unions or the 300 million working-age
European citizens.

Consider the facts. The EU is the only region in the world in which workers'
rights are embedded as constitutional rights of citizenship. They can only be
removed by Britain withdrawing from the EU, as Ukip openly proclaim and Michael
Howard hints at.

The first rule of trade-union negotiations is to read the small print. The new
treaty declares: "The union shall work for a highly competitive social market
economy, aiming at full employment and social progress. It shall combat social
exclusion and discrimination, and shall promote social justice and protection,
equality between women and men and solidarity between generations." All his
ministerial life Michael Howard opposed such values. But why should British
trade unions?

Written into the treaty is the obligation on the EU and member states to support
the charter of social rights and "set as their objectives the promotion of
employment, improved living and working conditions, proper social protection,
dialogue between social partners, the development of human resources with a view
to lasting high employment and the combating of exclusion".

In 1997, the Labour government signed up to the charter. Negotiations under the
charter have enshrined as core rights in the workplace four weeks' paid holiday,
obligatory consultation rights, pension rights for part-time workers, protection
for workers in takeovers, and anti-discrimination measures, which mean gay and
lesbian workers gained their first rights.

No other region in the world offers such enforceable treaty rights to its
citizens in the workplace. In the US, the 16 million unionised workers have
employment rights in labour-management contracts. But the 130 million non-union
US workers do not enjoy the rights that EU membership confers on all UK workers.

In the debate over how to respond to globalisation, the new treaty should be
held up as an example, with its insistence that workers without work or
employees without rights are victims and helots of modern capitalism instead of
players in a social market economy they can help shape.

It is true that no one in Brussels is seeking to tell unions or companies how to
do their business inside their own countries. In Germany, nearly 4 million
employees who have Beamter status as public sector workers are banned under the
German constitution from going on strike. Brussels cannot tell Berlin to
overturn the German constitution and laws to allow all state employees to go on
strike - a right most enjoy in Britain.

Le Monde reported recently that 95% of French employees in the private sector
refused to join a trade union. There is nothing in the new treaty that can make
them join a union if they do not want to.

In Britain, Labour has passed law making trade union recognition mandatory where
employees want it. But no German employer has formally to recognise a union on a
one-to-one contractual basis, and UK laws giving such legal rights to unions
would be considered unconstitutional in many EU nations.

Excessive overtime has long been a British problem. Quoting European commission
statistics, Die Welt reported this week that of the 15 member states in the
pre-enlargement EU, 10 had longer working weeks than the UK.

The new constitution contains no powers to stop overtime being worked. In
Germany last week, Siemens came to an agreement with the IG Metall union to
bring back a 40-hour week without any increase in pay.

So there is nothing in the new treaty or its charter of fundamental rights that
would allow a return to secondary picketing or closed shops any more than the
new treaty will overturn the strike verbot for German state employees or magic
up new members for French unions. Each nation has its own version of Europe's
social model.

Social Europe's biggest challenge is to reduce mass unemployment in Italy,
France and Germany. Labour has been a better champion of social Europe by
returning work to workers and bringing in other pro-worker legislation like
union recognition rights and the minimum wage. Let Ukip and Michael Howard say
no to Europe's new constitutional treaty with its powerful affirmation of social
responsibility and rights. The treaty contains language for 450 million citizens
that workers elsewhere in the world can only dream of. Unions should say yes to
Europe.

Denis MacShane is minister for Europe and Labour MP for Rotherham

macshaned@parliament.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 2, 2004

News roundup: Race: Kilroy-Silk article 'not incitement'

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 159 words


British Muslims yesterday condemned the decision not to prosecute Robert
Kilroy-Silk after the Crown Prosecution Service ruled that an article branding
Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors" was not inten
tionally insulting. Mr Kilroy-Silk caused outrage when he attacked Arabs in a
tabloid Sunday newspaper column.

The CPS received a file from the police, who had investigated whether the
article amounted to an incitement to racial hatred, and ruled that it did not.

After the article was published in January Mr Kilroy-Silk left his BBC1 morning
chat show. Last month he became a member of the European parliament for the UK
Independence party, which wants Britain to leave the EU.

The CPS said while "many found this article shocking and abusive and were deeply
insulted by it", it did not amount to a criminal offence.

Ahmed Versi, editor of Muslim News, said he was disappointed by the CPS
decision.


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 2, 2004, Friday

LETTER: EUROPEAN ANARCHY

BYLINE: CHRIS DAVIES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 79 words


Sir: The nomination of Mr Durao Barroso as next president of the European
Commission does at least rebut the ludicrous UKIP accusations that the EU is a
conspiracy against the nation state. The chaotic process by which Europe's prime
ministers chose from amongst themselves one whose chief characteristic is almost
total obscurity clearly had more to do with anarchy than tyranny.

CHRIS DAVIES

Leader, British Liberal Democrat MEPs, Stockport, Greater Manchester

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              168 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 2, 2004, Friday

LETTER: NATIONAL HYSTERIA

BYLINE: SAM BOOTE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 136 words


Sir: Tim Henman's exit from Wimbledon rounds off a series of English sporting
defeats which must surely have convinced the most diehard nationalists that the
English are nothing special.

During the past few months we have had to endure a wave of nationalist hysteria,
starting with the bubble of the UKIP (aka English nationalist party). Hopefully
the ballyhoo will now have died down until the next occasion - maybe the next
football World Cup - when English nationalists demand their God-given right to
be seen as unique.

Personally, I'm happy to be a citizen of a rather nice country which is
generally pleasant to live in and is (on the whole) kind to its residents. Let's
drop the whole nationalist, post-imperial, flag-waving "we are the greatest"
business.

SAM BOOTE

Keyworth, Nottingham

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              169 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 2, 2004, Friday

KILROY IN CLEAR ON ARAB RAP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 40 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk, 61, will escape action for possible race-hate over an
article that described Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women
repressors", prosecutors said yesterday. The ex-daytime TV host is now a Ukip
Euro MP.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              170 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 2, 2004

KILROY'S IN THE CLEAR

LENGTH: 68 words


FORMER telly chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk will not be prosecuted for a
newspaper article which attacked Arabs.

He was suspended by the BBC after calling Arabs "suicide bombers, limb
amputators and women repressors."

But the Crown Prosecution Service yesterday said the article did not constitute
an offence. Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, has since been elected a UK Independence Party
Euro MP.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              171 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 2, 2004

GIVE ME JAW-JAW OVER WAR-WAR ANY DAY SAYS TV JIM'S SEXYSIDEKICK

BYLINE: Matt Bendoris

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE; INTERVIEW; ISHA SESAY

LENGTH: 904 words


Sky babe Isha's African terror

SKY Sports' new sex symbol Isha Sesay has revealed how going live on air with
Scots presenter Jim White is nothing compared to her years living in war-torn
Sierra Leone.

The dusky beauty - who began her TV career in Scotland - has won over legions of
fans with her stunning looks and the sexual chemistry with co-star Jim.

She has also been a stalwart during the Euro 2004 campaign, with hours of live
reports as the cream of Europe battle it out in Portugal.

But facing the cameras is a walk in the park after growing up in the volatile
West African country in the middle of a violent military coup.

The 28-year-old said: "Euro 2004

has been a tough one for us at Sky because for a change ITV and BBC have all the
rights to the games.

"But we're still battling away and I think we're doing a very good job of it.

"Jim White has also been brilliant. He has taken me under his wing and helps my
development.

"I remember we broadcast for five hours one day doing the Arsenal victory
parade.

"It can be scary doing five hours of unscripted telly - but I've dealt with a
lot more frightening things in my life in Africa."

She explained: "I was actually born in London when my father Mamu had come over
from Sierra Leone to train as a lawyer. But after he qualified we moved back to
Africa in 1981.

"It was a huge culture shock for me at seven years old. I always remember the
heat when landing at the airport for the first time.

"Then when we arrived home that night the electricity went out - a common
occurrence in Africa, but it totally freaked me out."

But heat and blackouts were the least of her worries when the government was
overthrown in a bloody coup in 1992.

She said: "Until that point I have to admit I had enjoyed a very middle class
upbringing. It was idyllic living on a university campus with my dad working for
an import company and my mum an academic.

"But the trouble started in 1992. Things hadn't been right in the country for a
while but the first I knew something had happened was when these boys burst into
the Lebanese secondary school where I was studying at the time.

Coup

"They were shouting in Arabic and we couldn't understand them at all, so it was
all very panicky. Eventually we were able to work out that a military coup had
taken place."

Isha's mother Cadi is in the firing line herself now as a Sierra Leone
government minister - and the Sky presenter admits she's worried by her mum's
lofty position.

She said: "Things are stable enough at the moment and pretty quiet, but the
fundamental problems are still there - inequality and poverty. So it could kick
off again quite easily."

Cadi became Isha's only parent after the sudden death of her dad when she was
just 11. But her strong-willed mother made sure her three children were quickly
shipped out of Africa and back to the UK when trouble flared up.

After flirting with going to acting school in London, Isha would eventually
enrol at Cambridge University to study English.

But she always wanted to pursue a career in TV and got her break when she was
hired as a researcher for controversial presenter Robert Kilroy Silk - now an
MEP for the UK Independence Party.

She said: "I worked for Robert for a year. He may have some very strong
political views, but he was the man who helped me get into television and for
that I will always be grateful.

"Robert then put me in contact with BBC Scotland and I ended up as a researcher
on the Kaye Adams show in the mid-90s.

"I learned a lot from Kaye. The way I carry myself, working extremely hard,
appreciating what others do and actually listening to people.

"That was a great time as I lived in Glasgow for three years and got a chance to
develop my career.

"I then went on to do a show - Feeling Good, with Hazel Irvine - which was my
first foray into sport, as we got to try abseiling and white water rafting.

"I then got offers of work in London, which eventually led to Sky Sports."

Isha has been an instant hit with viewers and many TV insiders predict she could
go the way of former Sky Sports presenter Kirsty Gallacher. She said: "Kirsty
has done extremely well and I'd eventually love to try other things away from
sport, like she has.

"But right now I love what I'm doing and the reaction I get. I get lots of e
mails from viewers and people always come up and chat to me.

"I've had three marriage proposals so far. I've also had some pretty dodgy
offers with people writing in to say they reckon I'd make a great actress and
would I like to star in a film that they're making?

"But I always turn those ones down - I think I'll skip the old casting couch,
thanks very much!"

Team

Despite the love interest, Isha insists there is no one in her life right now.

She said: "I'm very single at the moment - but that's not to say I'm not
looking."

The only subject she remains coy about is what team she supports.

She said: "I never nail my colours to the mast. But I love it when I meet
players as I always pretend I support their rivals - that usually winds them up.

"Sky Sports is great fun as it's a good friendly format and they encourage you
to be yourself."

Isha added: "Although it can be a bit frightening being live on air, it really
doesn't worry me - I've been through a lot more frightening things in my life."


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              172 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2004, Friday

Kilroy cleared

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 45 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter and MEP for UKIP, will not
be prosecuted for alleged race hate over a newspaper article he wrote attacking
Arabs. The Crown Prosecution Service said that the article did not breach public
order legislation.


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2004

THIS WEAK GOVERNMENT IS STILL THE LESSER OF TWO EVILS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 179 words


HOW does Eric Goodyer ("Ukip is w rong - most of us want to be in Europe",
Letters, June 29) come to that conclusion?

Has he carried out his own referendum? If so, I didn't get a chance to vote in
it.

The truth is that he has no more idea than I have that this is the case. The
only winner in the recent European elections, both here and on mainland Europe,
was apathy, as shown by the extremely low turnout.

Most people have more pressing concerns than Europe.

Ask the average man in the street who his MEP is and I will guarantee the vast
majority will neither know nor care.

I have yet to see the prosperity to which he refers as a result of EU
membership.

Just ask the fishermen of Cornwall or Scotland what they think of the EU and its
common fisheries policy.

I see the EU as a hotbed of fraud and corruption, which can only get worse.

I do not wish to be ruled by and dictated to by some faceless Brussels
bureaucrat. Our present excuse for a government is bad enough, but is the lesser
of two evils.

Michael W Farley, Bream, Gloucs

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              174 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2004

EUROPEAN TRADE LINKS DON'T DEPEND ON POLITICAL UNION

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 127 words


YOUR correspondent Eric Goodyer says that Ukip stood in the EU election and lost
("Ukip is wrong - most of us want to be in Europe", Letters, June 29).

The Liberal Democrats, the most pro-European of all the parties, would like to
have finished third in the election.

At the present time, unlike our European partners, our economy is doing quite
well - despite European interference. We signed up in 1973 to a common market to
promote free trade between its members. There was never any mention of political
union - in fact it was denied.

We also trade with many other countries. One of our biggest trading partners is
the USA. No one would suggest that we have to become a US state just to trade
with them.

Michael Stone, King's Lynn, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              175 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 1, 2004

Letter: Say yes to the 21st century

BYLINE: Michael Newman

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 111 words


* Derek Simpson and Tony Woodley draw absurd conclusions from their justified
condemnation of the government. Trade unions should be campaigning to reverse
the current neoliberal line, but it is surely obvious that it is the populist
xenophobic right that will benefit from a no vote in the referendum.

What benefits do Simpson and Woodley really expect workers to derive from a
victory for the Conservative party and Ukip, and the non-implementation of the
European constitution? I hope the trade union movement won't make the mistake of
believing that any progress can be made by driving fast down this particular
cul-de-sac.

Michael Newman

London


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited
