
                               1 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 31, 2004, Sunday

BRITISH POLL BACKS KERRY

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 203 words


Most Britons believe the world will be a safer place if John Kerry defeats
George Bush on Tuesday, according to an exclusive poll for The Independent on
Sunday. While 56 per cent think the world will be safer if Mr Kerry wins, only
24 per cent think it will be safer under Mr Bush, while 20 per cent do not know.

The poll, carried out by Communicate Research last Wednesday and Thursday, finds
that an overwhelming 74 per cent think Tony Blair's support for George Bush in
Iraq is "bad for Britain". Only 19 per cent agree it is "good for Britain". And,
by a margin of 60 per cent to 33 per cent, the public opposes the Government's
decision to move British troops to the US zone in Iraq.

With the US election too close to call, the poll suggests that the fallout from
a Kerry victory could hurt Mr Blair: 50 per cent agree that, "if President Bush
loses the American election, Tony Blair's standing in the world would be
seriously weakened", while 42 per cent disagree.

Details, page 15

IoS POLL

How would you vote if there were a general election tomorrow?

Change on month

Labour 39% +7

Conservative 33% +3

Lib Dems 17% -10

UKIP 4%

Nationalists 3%

Green 1%

Other 1%

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 31, 2004, Sunday

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 133 words


Sleep till noon, drink beer, vote Kerry

Michael Moore American film director: his slogan for the US presidential
elections

I would like to see some changes in the economy. After all, I was the first one
laid off

Al Gore

former US vice-president,

on his defeat at the

hands of George W Bush

four years ago

Sometimes he buys his shirts a size larger in the neck so he can run his finger
around the collar and show how much weight he's lost

Herbert Breslin former manager to Luciano Pavarotti

I drink too much. I swear too much. I am too much. I would like to be just a
little bit calmer

Tracey Emin artist

Unlike dear Robert, I am neither permanently orange nor a legend in my own mind

Max Clifford the publicity guru, on UKIP MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               3 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 31, 2004

Business: SFO called in to EU scandal: Whistleblower urges inquiry into 'fraud
dossier'

BYLINE: Conal Walsh

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 435 words


THE Serious Fraud Office is considering whether to investigate alleged
misconduct within the European Commission after receiving a dossier of evidence
from Marta Andreasen, the Brussels whistleblower who worked for former Labour
leader Neil Kinnock.

Andreasen, who was sacked from her post as a senior EC accountant after
declaring that corruption and misuse of public funds were rife within the
Commission, is urging Britain's top anti-fraud agency to launch an inquiry into
her claims.

She argues that the SFO has a legal duty to step in because UK taxpayers
contribute around £12 billion a year to the EU budget.

The SFO said it was examining the documents Andreasen had delivered 'to
establish whether there is something for us to take forward'.

The accountant, a Spanish citizen, has consistently alleged that lax auditing
leaves the EC budget of more than £60bn a year 'massively open to fraud'.

She claims that 95 per cent of the Commission's funds have not been accounted
for because of poor financial controls and that there has been no audit of the
treasury for the past 14 years.

According to the documents she has forwarded to the SFO, the Commission uses
200,000 accounts in 45 banks worldwide, making it easy for corrupt officials to
siphon funds away. Andreasen also claims that there have been high-level
cover-ups and money laundering by EU employees through a New York office.

The EC has said that her allegations are unsubstantiated.

Andreasen's evidence is thought to include sensitive internal documents
collected while she was working for the Commission.

Her cause is being championed by the arch-Eurosceptic MEP and former Ukip member
Ashley Mote.

Last week, Andreasen and Mote also accused the UK government of turning a blind
eye to fraud in Brussels, despite knowing about the misuse of funds. Any SFO
investigation would be embarrassing for outgoing European Commissioner Kinnock,
who was Andreasen's boss as vice-president of the Commission.

Part of Kinnock's mandate was to tighten up accounting procedures to counter
longstanding complaints about corruption and mismanagement.

But Andreasen was suspended in 2002 when she refused to sign off the EU accounts
and went public with her concerns after falling out with Kinnock. Following a
28-month suspension on full pay, this month she was finally sacked for breach of
trust and disloyalty.

Last week, Andreasen said: 'I have acted really in the interests of the public.
. . I do not withdraw the claims that I have made and I am not sorry for the
actions that I have taken.'


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 31, 2004, Sunday

Hail Hancock

BYLINE: Paul Donovan

SECTION: Features; Culture; 13

LENGTH: 539 words


Rancid humour sometimes taints the airwaves. Jeremy Hardy, not content with
jovially suggesting on Jeremy Hardy Speaks to the Nation that BNP supporters be
shot in the back -which drew an official apology from Radio 4 -went on to
describe the UK Independence party, on The News Quiz, as "fascist-lite". Brian
Sewell then announced on the first edition of Radio 2's Clive Anderson's Chat
Room that the headline he wanted to see the following week was "Bush
assassinated".

Nil desperandum. This week celebrates a different sort of radio performer, whose
jokes were not about the politicians of his day but the human foibles of every
day. Perhaps for that reason he has not dated. He reserved his venom for private
ex-changes with his hapless co-stars rather than for temporary public figures.
His name was Tony Hancock, and he was the most insecure and the most able
practitioner of his craft there has ever been.

The peg, of course, is an anniversary. On Tuesday it will be 50 years to the day
since H-H-Hancock's Half Hour -as he himself always intoned it -made its debut,
propelling him to dizzy fame on both radio and, after two years, television.
That first episode is being repeated on Tuesday to launch Hancock's Whole
Evening on Radio 2, a three-hour tribute hosted by Paul Merton, the most
sympathetic and Hancockian of today's comedians and who once played him on ITV.

One of the funniest episodes, Wild Man of the Woods, is also going out (at
8.30pm), plus a fascinating biography of Hancock called Stone Me, What a Life!
(7.41pm) and an interview (9pm) with the supremely talented writers of Hancock's
Half Hour, Ray Galton and Alan Simpson, who also appeared last night in a
special programme on BBC7.

Radio 4 is marking the day, too. It is transmitting a documentary, Hancock's
Helpers, in which Russell Davies looks at other members of the Hancock's Half
Hour cast. This shows Hancock as arrogant, tyrannical and resentful of others'
success. He was irritated by Sid James's increasing popularity with audiences.
He stopped Moira Lister (who initially played his girlfriend) from going to
Argentina on a festival tour.

He said Kenneth Williams's "Oooh, stop messing about" catchphrase was "cardboard
comedy not based on truth".

Hancock's deep-seated neuroses culminated in his suicide in Sydney in 1968, the
man having turned his back on his writers and on radio. He was 44.

Yet Hancock remains forever funny, as well as painful. You cannot hear a tuba or
see a homburg hat (not that you do see many these days) or read about East Cheam
or talk about blood donations ("A pint? A pint?") without thinking about him.
You know that his persona in Hancock's Half Hour was just a more bombastic
version of the real thing -restless, self-centred, easily flattered, too fond of
drink and full of unrealised ambition. I know he is me and perhaps he is a bit
of all of us.

Hancock's Half Hour was the first sitcom to put character at its heart. It is
not surreal, goonish, gag-filled or topical. It eschews both satire and sound
effects.

It deserves its golden jubilee on Tuesday, and I am sure will still be making us
laugh at the diamond one and beyond.

paul.donovan@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Radio waves

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 31, 2004, Sunday

Is it RIP for the UKIP tribe?

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: Features; News; 32

LENGTH: 182 words


The remains of a bunch of very primitive pygmies have been discovered. They were
fierce defenders of their ancient island life but, having exceptionally small
brains, they were hunted to extinction.

Poor UKIP. Scientists could have avoided Indonesia to discover the missing link
in the evolutionary chain. They should have gone to Brussels to find, if not
little Indonesians, then the last of the little Englanders. That tribe's chief,
a Roger Knapman, refuses to fall on his spear for Robert Kilroy-Silk, even
though the swarthy, blow-dried chump of a chimp is a relative giant among
pygmies. Now even the queen of the dynasty, Joan Collins, is marching back to
the Tories, hoping they still pack more oomph in their loin cloths.

It was in an interview with me Kilroy first hinted he wanted to lead UKIP. Tory
beasts were terrified when he said UKIP should try to roast a Tory in every
seat.

It was a no-brainer to pick him and follow his plan. Naturally, this strange
sub-species did the opposite ... so they died out and dinosaur Howard survived.

Richard Lewis


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 31, 2004

WHAT A RELIEF TO HAVE SPLIT FROM THE UKIP BOSSES; LEADER

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: Scottish Edition; LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 668 words


IMMEDIATELY after Ukip's victories in the European elections in June I suggested
a meeting of party leaders so we could build on our success and develop future
strategy. Ukip leader Roger Knapman, the European parliamentary leader Nigel
Farage, the two main financial backers Paul Sykes and Alan Bown, my wife Jan and
I met on Monday June 13.

We agreed we needed to establish a London HQ, assemble a research team, develop
policies, draw up the manifesto for the general election, appoint spokespersons
and plan initiatives throughout the summer leading to the October conference
which, I anticipated, would unveil the manifesto.

Nothing happened. Weeks passed, nothing happened. Several times I told the party
leadership we were losing the initiative we gained in June.

Nothing happened. The leadership went AWOL for three long summer months. We
wasted precious time.

So, what was I to do? Say nothing? Cover it all up?

Pretend that we were politically active and had new policies? Say everything was
fine?

This was not possible because I was being asked to act as the party's spokesman
on TV and radio, where I was asked what Ukip's policies were apart from
withdrawal from the EU. "What are your policies on health", "What is in your
party's manifesto on immigration?" Was I to lie? Make them up? Well the latter,
actually, was what the leader once suggested.

So, after what had become four wasted months, I made public my view it would be
necessary for a change of leadership of the party if it was to progress.

In a letter to members I asked: "Do you want Ukip to be a serious political
party that can dominate debate, or do we want to remain a pressure group? Do we
want the leadership to be elected and publicly accountable or are we content to
continue to be governed by a selfselecting cabal? Do we want a party in which
conference decisions are respected and implemented, or are we happy for that to
be dismissed?"

These and the other seven questions I posed were regarded by an inexperienced
and insecure leadership as amounting to a disciplinary offence. I was informed,
through the media, the parliamentary whip would be withdrawn - though farcically
it was also reported I would be disciplined for, among other things, "erratic
behaviour", upsetting Joan Collins for not attending her book launch. All were
untrue.

It was also alleged I was not a team player, would not toe the line and
attracted negative publicity! But there was no team to play in, no line to toe
and the publicity we were attracting was increasing our profile.

But back to the attempt to withdraw the whip from me. They did not do it because
they could not. The leader and the parliamentary leader found last week in
Strasbourg only two MEPs would support them. They also ignored that if someone
is alleged to have broken a rule there first had to be rules. There are none.

There also has to be a proper procedure for dealing with alleged offences. There
is none. A properly constituted tribunal and a right of appeal has to be in
place. They were not. We would, in the absence of due process and any attempt to
adhere to the rules of natural justice, let alone the Human Rights Act, have
been in the courts for years. They were in a hole. I helped them out. They made
it clear they did not wish to work with me. I resigned the whip.

It is sad for the good members of the party we had a public row. They have a
right to know the truth, that they are being let down by their leadership and
that only the members have the power to change things.

As I said in my conference speech, the British people are disenchanted with the
old political parties.

They are fed up of being lied to, talked down to and not listened to. They want
a party that talks straight, tells the truth and will stand up for Britain.

This could have been Ukip. It could have seized the chance. The chance will not
come again. Do nothing and we shall regret it for the rest of our political
lives.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 31, 2004

WHAT A RELIEF THAT I'VE SPLIT FROM UK IP BOSSES

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1239 words


IMMEDIATELY after Ukip's victories in the European elections in June, I
suggested a meeting of party leaders so that we could build on our success and
develop future strategy.

Ukip leader Roger Knapman, the European parliamentary leader Nigel Farage, the
two main financial backers Paul Sykes and Alan Bown, my wife Jan and I met in
the Goring Hotel, London, on Monday June 13.

We agreed that we needed to establish a London HQ, assemble a research team,
develop policies, draw up the manifesto for the general election, appoint
spokespersons and plan a series of initiatives throughout the summer leading to
the October party conference which, I anticipated, would unveil the manifesto.

Nothing happened. Weeks passed, nothing happened. Several times I told the party
leadership that we were losing the political initiative that we had gained in
June. We should, I stressed, be exploiting the panic we had occasioned in the
Tory Party and the alarm felt by the Prime Minister about his project to create
a superstate called Europe being wrecked.

Nothing happened. The leadership of the party went AWOL for three long summer
months. We wasted precious time. We threw away our advantage. It w as
unforgivable, criminal. The British people had placed their trust in us and we
were letting them down.

So, what was I to do? Say nothing?

Cover it all up? Pretend that we were politically active and had new policies?
Say everything was fine?

This was not possible because I was constantly being asked to act as the party's
spokesman on TV and radio, w here I was inevitably asked what Ukip's policies
were apart from w ithdrawal from the EU. "What are your policies on health?" I
was asked on Sky News. "What is in your party's manifesto on immigration and
asylum?", others enquired. Was I to lie? Make them up? Well, the latter,
actually, was what the leader once suggested when I pointed out that he did not
have a particular policy.

TELLING lies was not an option. Throughout the election campaign I had
contrasted the lies, deceit, and spin which characterised the old political
parties with our approach.

We were honest, open, talked straight.

I could not now engage in a fraud on the electors by asking them to support an
invisible and absent leadership, a party without policies or direction, a party
going nowhere.

So, after what had now become four w asted months, I made public my v iew that
it would be necessary for there to be a change of leadership of the party if it
was to progress. I suggested that we should have an open and even robust debate
about the future of the party in my speech to the conference in October - where
incidentally we looked back "in celebration", not forward with new ideas.

In a letter to the members I asked: "Do you want Ukip to be a serious political
party that can dominate political debate, or do we want to remain a pressure
group? Do we want the leadership to be democratically elected and publicly
accountable or are we content to continue to be governed by a self-selecting
cabal? Do we want a party in which conference decisions - like not making shoddy
election deals with the old parties - are respected and implemented, or are we
happy for that to be dismissed?"

These and the other seven questions I posed were regarded by an inexperienced
and insecure leadership as amounting to a disciplinary offence. I was informed,
through the media, that the parliamentary whip would be withdrawn from me -
though, farcically, it was also reported that I would be disciplined for, among
other things, "erratic behaviour", upsetting Joan Collins for not attending her
book launch and starting a new political party. All were untrue.

It was also alleged that I was not a team player, would not toe the line and
attracted negative publicity! But there was no team to play in, there was no
line to toe and the publicity we were attracting was increasing our profile and
the number of members.

Moreover, it was strange to be told by Knapman, the party leader, that I was not
a team player. This was the same man who had pleaded with me to stand in the
Hartlepool by-election. I said it was "the leader's job". He said it "was too
far to go" from Devon! It was the same man who, in turn, asked me to be the
party's spokesperson, front-man, deputy leader and then, only last week, to have
total control of the general election campaign. What kind of leader is it who
would give up total control of a general election campaign while he stays in
deepest Devon? This is not leadership, it is abdication of leadership.

But back to the attempt to withdraw the whip from me. They did not do it because
they could not. The leader and the parliamentary leader discovered last
Wednesday in Strasbourg that only two of their fellow MEPs would support them.

They had also ignored or cavalierly disregarded that if someone is alleged to
have broken a rule there first had to be rules. There are none.

There also has to be a proper procedure for dealing with alleged offences. There
is none. A properly constituted independent tribunal and a right of appeal has
to be in place.

They were not. This was amateur politics. Invisible as a leader and incompetent
as a whip. We would, in the absence of due process and any attempt to adhere to
the rules of natural justice, let alone the Human Rights Act, have been in the
courts for years.

They were in a hole. I helped them out of it. They had made it clear that they
did not wish to work with me.

Obviously I would not therefore wish to work with them. I resigned the whip. To
be honest, it was a great relief. It means that I do not have to publicly defend
them when the leader and parliamentary leader childishly tear up their ballot
papers on their first day in Parliament. It means that I do not have to attempt
to explain away deputy leader Mike Nattrass's claim that we will have to fight
our way out of the EU in the same way that the Chechens attempted to fight their
way out of the Soviet Union - just days after the Beslan school massacre.

MORE important, I will not continue to be embarrassed by being associated in the
parliamentary group with parties from Poland and elsewhere that are alleged to
be anti-semitic, homophobic, anti-feminist and, by many, as racist.

It is sad for the good, hardworking members of the party that we should have a
public row. They have a right to know the truth, that they are being let down by
their leadership and that only the members have the power to change things. The
future of the party is in their hands. The members have to decide: do they want
to remain a fringe group or become a serious political party? Do they want a
party that is democratic, open and transparent or one run by one man as his
plaything? Do they want to win?

As I said in my conference speech, the British people are disenchanted with the
old political parties. They are fed up of being lied to, talked down to and not
listened to. They want a party that talks straight, tells the truth and will
fearlessly stand up for Britain and the British way of life.

This could have been Ukip. It could have seized the opportunity. You cannot do
it by going missing for a third of the year. The chance will not come again.
Take it now and we could change the face of British politics for ever. Do
nothing and we shall regret it for the rest of our political lives.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               8 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 31, 2004

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 33 words


KILROY-SILK is by far the most suitable candidate to lead the UK Independence
Party. With him at the helm, UKIP could be on the verge of a massive
breakthrough.

Dominic Shelmerdine, London

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 30, 2004

NTONIUS PIUS CAN OBLIGE

BYLINE: By Rolf Johnson The Scout

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; SPORT; Pg. 97

LENGTH: 449 words


UKIP might not like it but tonight we're devoted Europeans. We'll be cheering
home Monsieurs Fabre, Bary and Libaud as well as Aidan O'Brien against the
Yankees at Lone Star Park, Dallas, though not in the Alberto VO5 Breeders' Cup
Filly & Mare Turf.

Only two Brits travel to Texas and Wilko, having lost his last six Pattern
races, is a forlorn hope.

Not so Ouija Board. Among positives for the dual Oaks winner are that the track,
the humidity, the distance to travel are no different to last year in Santa
Anita where Europeans won all three turf races.

One them, Islington, was ridden by Kieren Fallon who warmed up w ith a victory
on the track yesterday and the reigning champion says:

"Ouija Board definitely has a better turn of foot than Islington."

But, the race is likely to be run 'French-style', slow-slow then dash - nothing
like the Arc in which Ouija Board was such a gallant third to the colts Bago and
Cherry Mix.

Ex-French Light Jig and AUBONNE (8.45) will be suited by the race tactics. The
former has thrived since going Stateside and Aubonne beat colts in a Group Three
at Longchamp. Moreover Aubonne's owner Gary Tanaka decided against paying the $
90,000 supplementary fee for Rakti but forked out for the filly.

Ouija Board usually needs a good month between her races. Even the help of
Lasix, which is banned here, may not refresh Europe's top filly and she could
give best to two who wouldn't normally touch her.

If there is to be a big-priced European winner long after everyone has given up
on him I'll have a few euros on ANTONIUS PIUS (7.35) because he has an
incredible turn of foot - should he deign to use it. And whereas Antonius Pius
wastes time looking for trouble, in the Mile scramble it will come looking for
him.

It's no reflection on the quality of Newmarket's meeting that the Listed races
may go to upgraded handicappers - after all yesterday's Listed winner Spanish
Don did.

David Elsworth's horse just held off TAKE A BOW (3.10) in the Cambridgeshire.
Now Take A Bow can overcome last year's Ben Marshall Stakes Babodana.

Elsworth's team is finishing the season in a rush. SOMETHING EXCITING (2.35)
carried the maximum 10lb penalty when spread-eagling a conditions stakes field
over today's course and distance, after winning her nurseries.

Something Exciting was also entered in the William Claridge Zetland Stakes where
she would have known she was in a race against Sunday Symphony whose only defeat
came at the hands of Motivator. As an each-way selection, given that Sunday
Symphony may be 'skinny' odds, try DANEHILL WILLY (2.05) upgraded from nurseries
to the trip which will play to his strengths.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              10 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

DEBORAH ORR: THIS DEGREE OF SILKINESS IS IN A CLASS OF ITS OWN

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORR

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 246 words


n WHO COULD possibly have imagined, during all those tedious years he spent on
our television screens attempting vainly to engage us, that Robert Kilroy-Silk
was such fantastic entertainment value?

Long considered to be the most arrogant man in Britain, the finely chiselled one
has surpassed himself in recent months as he pushed all boundaries in his
attempts to illustrate to the world just what sort of reductio ad absurdum a
really narcissistic personality could achieve if given its head.

It all started fairly modestly. Mr Kilroy-Silk wrote an article pointing out the
dreadfulness of people who were not at all like him (in the first instance,
Arabs). Relieved from his job at the BBC for his pains, he spread his wings a
little, and targeted people not quite like him (pro-Europeans).

Then, having got himself elected as an MEP under the auspices of the UK
Independence Party, he noticed that even people very similar to him (fellow
party members) didn't quite measure up. He insisted that they should make him
their leader, and when they refused, withdrew from the gang.

Now Mr Kilroy-Silk is an independent MEP, representing only himself. Finally, he
has realised that there is nobody at all who is really very much like Mr
Kilroy-Silk at all. Arabs, Europeans, Little Englanders - all are repulsively
lacking in Kilroy-Silkiness. At last the limits of the great man's prejudices
have been clearly mapped out. How lonely perfection must be.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

AGE RAGE: ANGRY OLD BRITONS FIGHT BACK;
 THEY'RE THE POOR RELATIONS OF UK SOCIETY. BUT THEY'RE MAD AS HELL AND

BYLINE: JANET STREET-PORTER Janet Street-Porter's column which appeared on
Thursday 14 October

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 2306 words


Two weeks ago, fed up with reading about a "crisis" caused by an ageing
population with insufficient pension provision, I wrote a piece bemoaning the
fact that Britain's pensioners, far from being viewed as the national treasures
they are in Japan, they are treated shabbily in every respect, are expected to
live on a pitiful pounds 105 a week, and, should they fall ill, will be kept
waiting up to four hours in a casualty department. It seemed to me that our
government, and to a large extent the media, wished to sweep the subject of
pensioners under the carpet. Old people are either invisible or discussed in
terms of being a problem.

Our state pension equates to just 37 per cent of average national earnings,
against 45 per cent in the USA and more than 70 per cent in Sweden, France and
the Netherlands - a shameful statistic for a government that prides itself on
being caring and inclusive. I pointed out that when election time comes around,
it's the "problem" people, the elderly, who will be voting, and Mr Blair ignores
them at his peril. In Germany and America, pensioners have formed powerful lobby
groups: one body of 35 million retirees sponsored the US presidential debates,
and in Germany a radical pensioners' party, the Grey Panthers, has sprung up
(slogan: "Justice for all generations"), which last year demonstrated angrily in
front of Gerhard Schroder following the announcement of his decision to switch
spending from the old to the young. And although it's been slow in coming, the
same radicalism is starting here.

Forget the antics of UKIP and their celebrity patrons, the people who will
really have an impact on who forms the next government will be the crumblies.
And my piece really got them fired up - I received letter after letter agreeing
with my prognosis. Jean Renouf, who can't live on her pension, still works two
or three days a week at 70 and said that the general attitude to old people
these days "was a total blank". Joyce Glasser told me: "Someone needs to
mobilise the powerful grey vote because that vote is not being heard." The
former DJ and television presenter Simon Dee is now a pensioner and is mad as
hell, raging that "unless SOMEONE does SOMETHING the old in the UK will erupt
into civil war".

Peter Gibson, who runs the Croydon Retired People's Campaign (fighting for
Croydon's 50,000 pensioners) told me: "Keep up the anger ... the over- sixties
are 75 per cent of the electorate and more likely to vote than any other group.
The nearer the election gets, the more vital it is to say these things ... well
done." Arthur Percival commented: "It could be argued that far from being a
drain on the community, (pensioners) contribute much to it ... the work of most
voluntary organisations is largely sustained by them."

The last time I received such impassioned letters was in March when I wrote
about the appalling conditions in Britain's care homes for the elderly. Dozens
of readers wrote to tell me they were worried, that unless they had plenty of
money, they would be facing a grim future should they be taken into care. So
once again, I make the case for treating the elderly with all the respect they
deserve. Because if we don't, they will use their votes to remove a government
they see as not representing their interests.

ARTHUR PERCIVAL, 71 RETIRED ENVIRONMENTAL CHARITY WORKER

WE LIVE in a society where we have a culture of youth and everybody over 50 is
regarded as being over the hill and not really in tune with the way in which
things are done these days. This is just not true of many people over 50. Old
people tend to be taken for granted and tend to be used by society at large and
they don't carry as much weight as they should. They are very often used by
their children and grandchildren in a role reversal.

In the old days people of the older generation tended to be looked after by
their children and grandchildren. Now they are often expected to run around
after them and sort out their problems. There is nothing wrong with that, but
it's another reason why they shouldn't be taken for granted and why they should
be provided for in a rather more generous way by the Government. They are often
called upon in effect to provide social services.

Old people are also treated so badly because they don't make a lot of noise
about themselves. They are restrained and don't have a particularly active lobby
like a lot of other groups. Pensions are inadequate. I understand that in other
European countries the pension is related to your final earning capacity and
it's something like two-thirds of what you earned. I'm aware it would be
difficult to rack up pension levels quickly because it would have a terrible
impact on the Chancellor's calculations, but I think he and his advisers should
seriously think about some substantial progressive increase in the level of
pensions.

To a certain extent people tend not to see old people. They don't very often
have nearly enough buying power and today very often you are seen in terms of
your buying power, particularly by advertisers. So I think they tend to be
overlooked by society.

Younger people have a standard of living which is way beyond what their parents
and grandparents enjoyed and that's excellent. But it means they can be seen in
their cars and having expensive foreign holidays. The older people can't always
afford those and therefore tend to be dismissed.

JOYCE GLASSER LEGAL RESEARCHER AND ANTI-AGE DISCRIMINATION LOBBYIST

I'M NOT a pensioner and I don't believe in using that word. It's a way of
defining people by their economic status. In this country we have a history of
keeping older people passive and hiring young people to earn a living by doing
things for them instead of empowering them.

I think older people are treated badly because they are not in the workplace.
They are not considered hip by advertisers and the media and they are not
respected. They are not seen and therefore they lose status. Neither are they
mobilised as they are in the United States. The Association of Retired People in
the United States, which has 35 million paid-up members, is powerful enough to
sponsor one of the presidential debates on television and politicians do not
ignore them. We have the Saga people, who are well off and have nice pensions
and go on holidays. And then we have the other side. We don't have anybody in
the middle. Older people are polarised. One out of five people on pensions lives
in poverty, while people over 60 have 85 per cent of the wealth in this country.
The Saga generation - the people with clout and money - don't care. They are
comfortable and they think their children will be. They are not going to be
doing the lobbying and pushing for the people who aren't very articulate or who
don't have the money or the belief that you can change things.

People are treated badly simply because they are not seen. If you look at modern
offices you rarely see people over 50 years old any more. And you don't see many
older people in the papers. This is the same thing that happened to black
people. If you never see yourself on television or in the newspapers or at
sporting events then you begin to feel socially excluded.

When the age discrimination legislation finally comes into force at the
beginning of 2007 it will only apply to recruitment and training. It will not
cover the provision of goods and services. That is an example of the Government
being very afraid of age equality. There is still so much stigma against age -
it's where racial discrimination was in the 1960s.

PETER GIBSON, 72, CROYDON RETIRED PEOPLE'S CAMPAIGN

THE OLD are treated so badly because paying them an amount of money they can
live on would cost the business community too much in taxes. There is not a
shortage of money in reality. There is a pounds 20bn surplus in the national
insurance pension fund and government auditors say there is enough to restore
the link between earnings and pensions for 10 years without increasing national
insurance.

The fact is that while we are the fourth richest country in the world we have
the lowest state pension of any developed country in Europe. It is on average
two, sometimes three, times the value of what is paid in Britain. This is mainly
because the governments in Europe have agreed with the European Central Bank
(ECB) that they will reduce the amount of money spent on social services over
the coming 40 or 50 years. Britain has agreed to reduce by 1 per cent the gross
national product spent on social services. Now that doesn't sound a lot but it's
1 per cent of a great deal of money which means that the Government is
unwilling, if it is to keep its word to the ECB, to provide the basic state
pension which people need. We know that between 25 and 30 per cent of the people
who are entitled to means-tested extra payments don't get them for all sorts of
reasons, such as the forms being complicated or people feeling they are
intrusive.

The point is all this is our money. It's not the Government's. From the
beginning of your working life you have been paying money in every week into
national insurance and income tax. Pensions are really deferred wages. When the
pension was introduced in 1908 it was worth about 25 per cent of the average pay
for working people, by 1958 it was worth 19.5 per cent, in 1978 it had gone up
to 23.4 per cent and last year it was 14.7 per cent.

Because I have a reasonably good industrial pension I can get by. For some
people retirement is a marvellous time. But for other people it's a time of
misery, dread and fear. I think first of all we have to re-establish the link
between average earnings and pensions.

If there are billions of pounds available to invade other countries, there are
billions of pounds available to look after the old people in Britain. I feel
bloody angry that there's a charade going on that says we can't afford it.

SIMON DEE, 69 FORMER TV AND

RADIO PRESENTER

I THINK old people are treated so badly because everything is focused on the
young - the sales techniques and television commercials. The simple fact is that
there is no money in being old, so people just leave them to one side. The
trouble is that we do all present an intelligence and degree of knowledge, which
I think is looked on as threatening to those who are young, particularly those
in a position of power and responsibility. You get cases now when you go for
jobs and are told that you are overqualified. It's a national scandal if you
can't get a job because you know more than the bloody employer.

The whole thing is insane. Most of the old are in homes these days rather than
keeping them in the family circle. In all ancient civilisations the old were
kept in the group, if only to ask for advice. We are disregarding the wisdom of
the elders. Old people are treated appallingly. You try and live on pounds 105 a
week, it's just impossible. I don't have any other pension. When the phone bill,
water bill, electricity and gas bill and rates come, you live on soup and
sandwiches for four or five days.

A soldier will survive in the field if he adapts. You do exactly the same if
you're old these days. We do tend to look after each other. We give each other
hints in the supermarket. There are people who landed on the Normandy beaches
who are close to starving. It's an absolute scandal. I don't know why people
haven't lined up Westminster and shot the whole lot of them. They are dreadful
people. In France they look after their old. You see them with their children
and the whole thing is en famille. But over here it's not.

JEAN RENOUF, 70 FORMER ESTATE AGENT

I'M STILL working part-time. I was a manager of an estate agent and given 12
weeks' notice when I reached the age of 70. They had a policy of getting rid of
people when it suited them. And so that was it. But fortunately I was offered a
part-time job by a previous employer.

I'm very thankful that I've still got my health and strength and that there's
someone prepared to employ me who seems to think quite a lot of me.

In spite of Serps my basic state pension is not really enough. I don't want to
just exist. My pension, including earnings-related income, is pounds 150 a week.
And then I have a couple of company pensions which amount to pounds 25 a week.
It's still not very much. I live on my own as I'm divorced.

I think the way old people are treated so badly is an English thing. When I've
been on the Underground it's always foreign people who give up their seat for me
- Asians, Chinese. English people just look through you somehow.

Once upon a time when I would walk on to a building site everything would come
to standstill and they would ask "What can we do for you, darling?" Then, 30
years later, you get a cursory glance and when you manage to attract somebody's
attention because you need something it's "Oh God, what a nuisance you are."

Perhaps it started when women started going out to work. Before, when people got
old, they would live with the family and possibly still have a lot of respect
and consideration. Now, because women need to work, older parents have to go
into a home. Consequently they're regarded as something of a nuisance. I blame
the media. You still get Moira Stewart and Sir Trevor McDonald reading the news,
but presenters generally are young and even newspapers don't pay a great deal of
attention to older people.

I have elderly relatives six or seven years older than me, one of whom is in
hospital and the other has had to go into a care home. Their house was flooded
last week and they have had fairly scant consideration from anybody in the way
of help. Once upon a time when old people were in trouble they would have been
given help by neighbours.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              12 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 30, 2004

ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: Jeremy Clarkson

SECTION: CLARKSON; OPINION

LENGTH: 94 words


WHEN Robert Kilroy-Silk was exposed as a stupid racist, you could see him
basking in the publicity.

Then he joined UKIP which earned him yet more appearances on television and in
the newspapers, and then when that brouhaha died down he mounted a leadership
challenge.

Now he's in the papers again for behaving like a two year old in the European
Parliament.

Plainly, the man will do anything to see his name in lights. And this gives me
an idea.

The record for falling out of a plane and surviving is 31,000ft. Why doesn't he
try to beat it?


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              13 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

Time's up for Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: Anthony Browne

SECTION: Overseas news; 22

LENGTH: 122 words


The United Kingdom Independence Party will vote on Monday to expel the former
BBC television presenter Robert Kilroy-Silk five months after he joined (Anthony
Browne writes). Mr Kilroy-Silk demanded to be the leader of the party at its
annual conference last month. Supporters of the present leader, Roger Knapman,
insisted that he would serve the four-year term to which he had been elected. Mr
Kilroy-Silk has also said that he got nowhere with attempts to make the party
professional.

Mr Knapman said of Mr Kilroy-Silk on BBC radio yesterday: "I will miss him, but
not for very long. I think I could sleep at night without him." Mr Kilroy-Silk
said of his impending departure: "I can't wait until it's all over."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 29, 2004

Joan declares her independence

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 267 words


TWENTY- FOUR hours after Robert Kilroy-Silk stormed out, Joan Collins delivered
her own coup de grace to the UK Independence Party yesterday.

The actress became the second celebrity backer lost to UKIP when she declared
that she does not actually support it.

She added that, while she is a patron, she wouldn't necessarily vote for the
party.

Miss Collins made her views known in an interview in The Spectator.

In a PR stunt last May the actress had said she feels 'we are eroding ourselves
to Brussels' and had been 'extremely flattered' to be asked by Mr Kilroy-Silk to
be a patron.

But in yesterday's interview she was coy when asked if she was still a supporter
of UKIP.

She replied: 'I am not a supporter. I'm a patron. "Patron" means they put my
name at the head of their paper.

'And it means I could be a supporter but it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm
going to vote that way. I understand there have been some changes.' Miss Collins
said she was not politically oriented but thought the party had quite reasonable
policies.

She added: 'But you know what, I really don't want to get into politics.'

Later, she said: 'I don't know why everyone is so fascinated with me and UKIP. I
was always going on about how much I loved Maggie Thatcher.

I don't remember that causing much of an outcry.' Mr Kilroy-Silk walked out of
UKIP's group of Euro MPs on Wednesday, resigning the whip.

The former chat show host who wants to replace the little-known Roger Knapman as
leader said he would not be leaving the party but would now sit as an
independent.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              15 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

Voters prepared to back Blair again despite doubts on war

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 240 words

MOST voters believe that Tony Blair exaggerated or lied about the threat from
Iraq but appear ready to give him a third term as Prime Minister, a YouGov poll
for The Daily Telegraph says today.

While only one in four voters thinks the Government is honest and trustworthy,
most give Mr Blair the benefit of the doubt when it comes to running the
country.

Voters are more concerned about pensions, the health service, immigration and
crime than Iraq.

While a majority says it feels less safe than before the war, most voters have
made up their minds about the conflict - and the domestic repercussions for Mr
Blair are fading. Only 19 per cent regard Iraq as one of the four most important
problems facing the country.

The Tories have fallen back under Michael Howard's leadership on the first
anniversary of their decision to oust Iain Duncan Smith. YouGov puts Labour in a
four-point lead on 36 per cent, the same as last month, the Tories on 32 (down
two) and the Liberal Democrats on 22 (up one). The minority parties are on 10
per cent, with the UK Independence Party accounting for half of that.

The Tories are ahead of Labour on four issues: Europe, taxation, law and order
and immigration and asylum.

Mr Blair sought to steal the Tories' clothes on law and order yesterday by
announcing an extension of fixed penalty fines for anti-social behaviour,
including dropping litter, graffiti, fly-posting and noise at night.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              16 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

Ups and downs of politics fail to lift Tories Gap between the two parties has
actually widened since early June

BYLINE: By ANTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 999 words

BRITISH politics used to resemble a see-saw. When Labour was up, the Tories were
down. When the Tories were up, Labour was down. Any casual observer could see
what was happening. But YouGov's latest survey for The Daily Telegraph provides
additional evidence that the old familiar see-saw has collapsed.

Tony Blair and his Government are indubitably down. Only 36 per cent of voters
now say they would vote Labour at a general election compared with 42 per cent
who backed Labour last time. Scarcely a quarter of voters applaud the
Government's record. Even fewer believe that the Prime Minister and his
colleagues are honest.

Yet the downward pressure on Labour is signally failing to lift the
Conservatives. In June 2001 a modest 33 per cent of voters backed the Tories.
Despite all that has happened since - including two changes of Tory leader and
the Iraq war - the proportion backing the Conservatives is, if anything,
slightly smaller now than it was then: 32 per cent. The Tories are worse off
today than at any time since Michael Howard became leader.

Instead of switching to the Tories, disaffected voters are turning in increasing
numbers to either the Liberal Democrats - up three points since the last general
election - or the UK Independence Party. Three years ago UKIP had only derisory
support. Today five per cent of voters tell YouGov they may vote UKIP next time.

Findings such as these pose a real threat to sitting Conservative MPs,
especially in southern and eastern England. The Tories need to make colossal
gains to win the next general election. At the moment net losses look like being
equally probable.

The worst news for the Tories in the latest findings lies in the responses to a
simple question that YouGov asks from time to time: "If you had to choose, which
would you prefer to see after the next election, a Conservative Government led
by Michael Howard or a Labour Government led by Tony Blair?"

At the moment 47 per cent opt for Labour, only 38 per cent for the
Conservatives. The gap between the two parties has actually widened by seven
points since early June.

Almost all YouGov's data go on to suggest that Labour's position is considerably
more secure now than it was a few months ago. As the figures in the section of
the chart headed "Best party to handle" indicate, the Tories are still ahead on
a range of issues - notably immigration and law and order - but the gap in
connection with practically every issue has narrowed in Labour's favour over the
past few months. Labour also enjoys its largest lead on economic competence
since at least 2002.

It is striking that events in Iraq are having almost no domestic repercussions.
The Blair Government's policies are widely deplored but only a small minority
have greater confidence in the Conservatives. Moreover, most voters made up
their minds about Iraq a long time ago. Such damage as the Iraq conflict was
ever going to inflict on Mr Blair and his Government has already been inflicted.

YouGov's findings on the public's overall attitudes towards the conflict in Iraq
are startling. "Blair's war" has done the British Prime Minister no good.
"Bush's war" has all but destroyed whatever reputation President George W Bush
ever had among Britons.

Most of YouGov's findings relating to Iraq make bleak reading from the
Government's point of view. The proportion of voters believing that Britain and
the United States were "wrong to take military action against Iraq" - 54 per
cent - now constitutes a clear majority and is the largest proportion since
YouGov began asking the relevant question during the war itself.

Sixty per cent of Britons believe that American and British actions in Iraq have
"increased the threat of global terrorism", with only nine per cent believing
the opposite, and a clear majority of the British people, 56 per cent, say they
personally feel "less safe" now than they did before the war.

Mr Blair's credibility - both as a truth-teller and as a wise leader - has also
suffered immense, probably irreparable, damage. As the figures in the chart
indicate, only one voter in three believes that when Mr Blair advocated the
invasion of Iraq he "genuinely believed" that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons
of mass destruction which posed an imminent threat to the outside world.

A far larger proportion, 64 per cent, believe either that Mr Blair did indeed
think that Iraq's weapons of mass destruction posed a threat but that he either
"exaggerated the threat in order to justify the invasion" (39 per cent) or else
was actually lying about the threat (25 per cent).

As the figures in the chart also indicate, a substantial 59 per cent of Britons
lack confidence in the Prime Minister's ability "to take the right decisions
about Iraq".

However, in electoral terms all such judgments are relative and, compared with
the Tory leader, Mr Blair - as the figures show - fares reasonably well. He
fares even better compared with his American ally, Mr Bush. Large numbers of
Britons clearly regard John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, as an
unknown quantity. Charles Kennedy appears not to have gained much as a result of
his opposition to the war.

Two other factors have reduced the war's continuing domestic impact. One is the
fact that - as the figures in the chart indicate - only 19 per cent of voters
regard Iraq as one of the four "most important problems that matter to
themselves and their families". Large numbers of people see the Iraq conflict as
an abstract national issue rather than as a deeply personal issue.

In addition, Iraq appears to be a matter that most people made up their minds
about some time ago. New developments - including fresh atrocities - merely feed
existing prejudices. As the figures in the chart show, almost 80 per cent of
Britons decided what they thought about Iraq either "last year" (64 per cent) or
"earlier this year" (13 per cent).

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 29, 2004

IT'S TIME FOR US TO CLAIM FAIR TERMS IN EU

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 437 words


DAVID STARKEY, the TV historian, is always immensely watchable. He turns history
into a fascinating narrative. His latest series, a huge tale of all the monarchs
of England for 1,500 years, began with a humdinger.

Unlike most historians who start w ith 1066 and William the Conqueror, Dr
Starkey went back to the coming of the Angles, Saxons and Danes and told me
something I had not known.

The refusal of the English to be governed without their consent predates the
Bill of Rights, Magna Carta and the Conquest. It was the hallmark of the first
Anglo-Saxons.

Could the gene line really last 1,500 years? If so, it would explain why, of all
the myriad peoples of Europe, from the Gaels of Ireland to the Slavs of Poland,
from the Nordics of Sweden to the Latins of Sicily, the English are the most
truculent in the face of the rule of Brussels.

We all know that 60 per cent of the laws we must obey are not framed and passed
in Westminster any more, but that the right of the British to govern the British
has been removed in a series of "enabling acts". We never gave specific,
single-issue consent for that. (The referendum of 1975 cannot stand because it
referred only to a Common Market).

If the Conservative party had half a brain, it would simply pledge to hold a
referendum this time next year. Not "in or out" but: "Do you wish Britain's
relationship with the EU to continue as at present or be renegotiated? Tick the
box that meets your preference."

It would shoot Ukip's fox stone dead, bring back the three million who voted
Ukip on June 10 and be extremely hard for even Kenneth Clark to denounce. No
politician looks convincing when denouncing popular consent. (Mind you, nothing
causes me to laugh louder than Euro politicians paying lip service to democracy
while privately dreading that it might one day happen and rob them of their
gravy trains. ) There would be nothing pernicious in renegotiating terms because
the terms under which Edward Heath secured our entry into the EEC in 1972 were
as bad as could be. Heath's panic that we not be rejected again and France's
ruthless exploitation of that panic has meant that, ever since, all the
advantages have accrued to Franco-Germany and all the disadvantages to us. Over
the period this 45-degree sloping pitch has cost us a provable £500billion while
between 10 and 20 per cent of that has come back as benefits.

Heath thought we British were dead meat and Franco-Germany was the economic
miracle that would save us. Now it is the reverse. Time to rectify the injustice
the old fool foisted on us and demand fair terms.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              18 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 29, 2004

FROM FORCE TO FARCE, HOW UKIP'S SUPPORT WITHERED; AS THE PARTY'S ONLY STAR
DECIDES TO SIT AS AN INDEPENDENT

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1136 words


IF A WEEK is a long time in politics, then five months has proved to be an
eternity for the United Kingdom Independence Party, in which a serious political
agenda has turned into farce. In June, Ukip was celebrating a stunning political
coup. It had just had 12 men elected to the European Parliament, collecting a
sixth of the vote and sending shockwaves through the established political
parties.

The Tory high command was particularly disconsolate. Conservative hopes of
hoovering-up voters disenchanted with Tony Blair appeared to be in ruins.

Because of the Tory panic, the expected Labour uprising against Blair's
leadership failed to materialise. Despite their own party's awful showing,
Labour MPs felt, as did the Tories, that a strong Ukip vote at the next general
election would be their saving grace. So Ukip changed the course of political
history and Blair stayed put.

Tory leader Michael Howard soon performed two shadow cabinet reshuffles, risking
accusations of lurching to the Right by bringing John Redwood back into his top
team in a bid to shore up the core Conservative vote.

So when Ukip's MEPs gathered on College Green in Westminster for a photocall the
day after the European election results were announced, they were quite
justifiably in celebratory mood. Party leader Roger Knapman sprayed English
sparkling wine over the assembled throng before declaring - in the time honoured
fashion of a small party leader marking a mid-term success - that his army was
on the march.

Most of the new MEPs were content to be drenched but, tellingly, one hung back.
The immaculately dressed Robert Kilroy-Silk turned away from the spray and
managed to keep dry, doubtless reflecting that his hand-stitched suit was far
too nice to be wrecked by a shower of Kent Asti.

Minutes later he simply couldn't help providing the soundbite of the day. As
Knapman gabbled away to no great effect, Kilroy was asked what he wanted to
achieve at the European Parliament. "Wreck it, " he replied. Even in the warm
glow of victory, the Sunday Express columnist appeared a man apart. And so it
was to prove.

KILROY had every reason to be proud of his contribution to Ukip's success. He
had fronted a brilliant party election broadcast and proved a campaigning
prodigy in market towns throughout his own East Midlands constituency.

Compared with the stolid Knapman - a man with as much charisma as a piece of
boiled cod - the former TV idol was positively dripping with stardust and few
people doubted that it was his effortless dominance of the media that was the
single biggest factor behind Ukip's success.

But, although he agreed with Ukip's single, clear-cut policy to get Britain out
of the European Union, the former Labour MP also seemed struck by the fact that
his new colleagues were an eccentric bunch of old-school Right-wingers.

One Ukip MEP, Godfrey Bloom, made headlines for all the wrong reasons by giving
an early run-out to his jurassic views about the role of women in society. He
represented Yorkshire women who had their husbands' dinners on the table when
they came home, he said, continuing that more women should follow their example
because "they didn't clean behind the fridge enough". People began to notice
that Ukip was dominated by men of a certain age and disposition.

Initially he scoffed at suggestions that he should replace Knapman as party
leader but Kilroy had a change of heart in the summer as he pondered the
amateurish nature of the Ukip high command. Perhaps due to doubts about being
surrounded by former Tories with limited electoral appeal, he rather rashly
announced that his ambition was for Ukip to "kill" the Conservative Party. "What
we want to do is kill it and replace it.

That is our destiny, " he announced.

That pledge, as part of a brilliant speech at Ukip's annual conference in
Bristol at the begining of this month, ensured that he dominated the political
headlines once more.

While the party lapped up the message and gave him a hero's reception, the
remark deeply disturbed one of its main financial backers, multi-millionaire
businessman Paul Sykes, who delighted the Tories by switching his support back
to them.

Sykes' explanation for his change of heart does much to explain why Ukip is now
a force on the wane. The arch-sceptic Yorkshireman feared that Ukip candidates
standing against Euro-sceptic Tories would allow Labour and Liberal Democrat
federalists to be elected by the back door. As the weeks have rolled by it has
become clear that many Eurosceptic voters share that fear.

In June the electorate did not choose a government for the country. They merely
stuck two fingers up to Brussels and Ukip was the perfect vehicle to allow them
to do that.

Voters knew they did not need an MEP with appealing health, education, crime or
tax policies. Under Europe's proportional representation electoral system, they
also knew a single-issue candidate stood every chance of being elected.

BUT COME the general election, Europe will only be a middle-ranking issue and no
Ukip candidate, aside perhaps from Kilroy, stands a snowball's chance in hell of
winning a seat.

So, even had Ukip not been consumed by a power struggle between Kilroy-Silk and
Knapman supporters, its appeal would have withered.

It might have still captured enough Euro-sceptic votes in every marginal seat to
deprive a Tory challenger of victory but its vote would have been limited to
those few mono-maniacs for whom Europe is the be all and end all of politics.

The broad mass of Centre-Right sceptics were always going to head home to the
Tories. Now even the most determined Euro-sceptics will find themselves asking
if they can really justify supporting a bitterly divided party whose sole effect
might well be to spare pro-federalist sitting Labour MPs from the axe. Knapman'
allies have seen Kilroy off but theirs is the ultimate pyrrhic victory. They
have lost their most powerful electoral weapon and succumbed to the fringe-party
peril of ideological infighting.

Kilroy's future is somewhat brighter. He will continue to speak for millions
through his Sunday Express column. He intends to remain a rank-and-file Ukip
member, but will sit as an independent in the European Parliament. Doubtless
other projects will suggest themselves to him but who will command the agenda
for Ukip now?

The gifted communicator is gone and all that's left is the people lambasted by
the Conservatives in the summer as "cranks and gadflies".

Nobody will be more relieved by that than Michael Howard.

In fact, Ukip's MEPs appear to have been more mayflies than gadflies - rising
and swarming for a single day in spring only to die before the chill winds of
autumn bite and leave only a memory in their wake.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              19 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

KILROY: UKIP'S STUFFED IF I GO

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words


EURO MP Robert Kilroy-Silk last night claimed the UK Independence Party would be
destroyed if it expelled him.

Senior figures want to kick him out after his campaign to take over the
leadership.

Last night he resigned the party whip - but said he would not quit the party.

He said: "If I go a lot of the membership will go with me.

"The party would be pressing the self-destruct button if they expelled me."

The former chat-show host also renewed his attack on the party leadership, which
he said was "embarrassing" to defend.

But a top party figure said: "Nobody wants him to be leader and increasingly
they don't even want him to be a member."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              20 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

KILROY: UKIP OVER IF I QUIT

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words


EURO MP Robert Kilroy-Silk last night claimed the UK Independence Party would be
destroyed if it expelled him.

Senior figures want to kick him out after his campaign to take over the
leadership.

Last night he resigned the party whip - but said he would not quit the party.

He said: "If I go a lot of the membership will go with me.

"The party would be pressing the self-destruct button if they expelled me."

The former chat-show host also renewed his attack on the party leadership, which
he said was "embarrassing" to defend.

But a senior party figure said: "Nobody wants him to be leader and increasingly
they don't even want him to be a member."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              21 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

Choice over Europe

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 143 words


From Mr Eddy Holt.

Sir, Peter Riddell (Political Briefing, October 26) writes: "So, are we ready to
be full-hearted partners in an EU, willing, with safeguards, to trust and
co-operate with other members? Or are we always on the defensive, fearful of
being out-manoeuvred?" He then states that the choice is between these two
alternatives.

What about the option of leaving the EU altogether? What about the likely effect
on the Tory vote in the forthcoming general election, among those of us who feel
that we were lied to by the Tories when they held the referendum that took us
in, and have been subsequently lied to by governments of both parties about
every subsequent surrender of our sovereignty? Where else can we go but to the
UKIP?

Yours faithfully, EDDY HOLT, Frieze Farm, Crowsley, Henley-on-Thames RG9 4JL.

October 27.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

Celebrity went to its head, but the barmy party can still create havoc

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 293 words


WHERE DID it all go wrong? They had it all. Celebrity, money, a strong brand
and, what is more, they were anti-Establishment. On that balmy June day when the
UKIP's dozen newly-elected MEPs popped champagne outside the Commons I believed
-I really did -that they could shake up British politics. The buzz of
anticipation was in the air and the crackle of electricity which comes when
politicians tap into a public mood which the Westminster village has failed even
to detect. Yet now look.

The man who drew the cameras to the cause has dubbed his fellow UKIP MEPs
"barmy".

In return, they describe him in ways that mainly cannot be printed in a family
newspaper, although I do cherish the description of Robert Kilroy-Silk as "a man
in a hurry who's not sure where he's hurrying to". For now he is half in the
party, half out -unsure, it seems, whether to leave the party or to continue his
bid to lead it. Paul Sykes, one of the UKIP's principal donors has returned to
the Tory fold. Michael Howard's lieutenants grin in relief.

UKIP's new MEPs are now best known for their infighting and the suggestion that
their wives are at home cleaning behind the fridge. The party's behaviour these
past few months reminds me of a footballer plucked from the obscurity of the
fourth division and thrust into the Premiership.

And yet, despite all this, the party is not over. The UKIP still registers 4 per
cent in the polls. I have no doubt many will vote for it because they are sick
of what they regard as the deceit of the big parties. It still has the ability
to determine who wins in dozens of constituencies if not, it would appear, to
win any itself. All this despite its biggest name declaring: "I'm a celebrity,
get me out of here!"


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

La nouvelle revolution europeenne

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 117 words


ALL THIS UKIP trouble in a week when a vote in the European Parliament led news
bulletins and front pages. A whole host of malign motives has been offered to
explain la nouvelle revolution europeenne -anti-Catholic, anti Berlusconi,
anti-Barroso after his backing for the Iraq war -but one factor has been
ignored.

Imagine for a moment that you are a member of the European Parliament. Day after
day you confront obscurity, impotence and derision at home. Then prime ministers
and commissioners court you. Next the guys from TV who routinely ignore all your
efforts to do good for your constituents come and ask whether you will vote the
commission down. Well you would, wouldn't you?


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 28, 2004

Kilroy-Silk quits UKIP whip to fight for top job

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 222 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night stormed out of the

UK Independence Party group in Strasbourg The MEPs had gathered to consider the
former chat show host's public battle to take the place of leader Roger Knapman.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk apparently decided to jump before he was pushed and announced
that he was resigning the party whip.

He now sits as an independent in the European Parliament but insisted he would
remain a member of the party though he finds defending its policies
embarrassing.

Speaking from Strasbourg, Mr Kilroy-Silk claimed the party's MEPs had asked him
out for dinner last night in a last-ditch attempt to repair the rift.

'These people wanted to metaphorically hang me a few days ago,' he said.

'Now they have found they can't and they want me to be their friend. I don't do
that and I have resigned the whip.' Mr Kilroy-Silk said the move would not make
'the slightest bit of difference' to him. 'I will continue doing what I am
doing,' he said.

The former Labour MP gave a broad hint that his leadership ambitions are far
from dead.

He said he has arranged to visit UKIP branches in London, Yorkshire, Devon,
Cornwall and Kent to talk to party members in the coming weeks.

He would be urging members to force a full meeting of the party and throw out Mr
Knapman. Protest:

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KILROY-SILK PLANS TO GO ON TOUR

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 28, 2004

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 486 words


TONY Blair scurried to Australia House on Tuesday night to attend a charity
fundraiser staged by the Newspaper Press Fund and to flatter his most craven
Press supporters.

He made a great fuss of Sun editor Rebekah Wade and The Times's editor Robert
Thomson. The Times's Blairidolising commentator Mary Ann Sieghart, spotting the
PM heading for his News International fans, moved swiftly to join the simpering
duo. So she got a kiss along with Miss Wade. Mr Thomson inquired plaintively:
'No kiss for me, then?' God knows he deserves one. Pass the jumbosized sickbag.

FANCY goods makers say that when it comes to shifting Halloween masks, George W.
Bush is outselling Senator John Kerry 53 to 47 per cent (see pictures). The
candidate inspiring the best-selling mask has, they say, won the past six
elections.

WHY the ridiculous fuss about the sacking of The Spectator's board, including
chairman Algy Cluff, a businessman, and former Tory minister Norman Tebbit? A
source there says: 'It was merely a glorified dining club. Algy isn't rich any
more and being chairman of the Speccie was a useful way of pretending he still
has influence.

Boris (editor Boris Johnson) sucked up to the board, especially Francis Maude
(Tory MP) who planted the idea that he should become Tory leader.'

DRESS designer Arnold Scaasi says his former client, Rose Kennedy, the American
political matriarch who died in 1995 aged 104, told him:'We'll have a black
lesbian president in the 21st century.' Whom did she have in mind?

RETIRED BBC newsreader Michael Buerk is sniffy in his memoirs about colleagues
who write 'silly' books about animals.

Ex-newsreader Martyn Lewis thinks this is a reference to his own volume, Cats In
The News. He tells friends: 'My book sold 243,000 copies in the UK alone. Last I
heard, Michael's memoirs had sold about 2,000.'

A MORE sympathetic picture is emerging of TV star Shaw Taylor, 80 on Tuesday,
after lurid weekend revelations by his mistress of 25 years, Sandy Kaye, who
claims he was mean to her when she lost all her money. Among the other beautiful
women in Taylor's life, apparently tolerated by his longsuffering wife, Jane,
was Prisoner Cell Block H star Margo McLennan, with whom he had an affair
lasting 16 years.

Says a friend of both, actress Barbara Whatley: 'When Margo was diagnosed with
cancer, Shaw was wonderful to her.

He came over from the Isle of Wight to visit her regularly until she died.

I have been a friend of his for more than 40 years and I do not recognise him as
the heartless character depicted at the weekend.'

MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk at odds with the UKIP leadership met prospective EU
commissioner Rocco Buttiglione yesterday. The Italian's in hot water with Euro
MPs for his forthright views on gays and single mothers. Making throat-cutting
gestures, Signor Buttiglione cried: 'You and me, we're both for the chop!'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              26 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 28, 2004

ROBERT KILL-JOY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 21 words


ROBERT Kilroy Silk stormed out of a UK Independence Party meeting last night
over leadership, but will remain a member.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              27 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

UKIP left in turmoil as Kilroy-Silk quits

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard Brendan Carlin and George Jones

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 571 words

THE UK Independence Party was in disarray last night after Robert Kilroy-Silk
resigned from its group of Euro-MPs in a bitter dispute over his refusal to
abandon his attempt to become the party's leader.

Less than a month after declaring that UKIP's objective should be to "kill" the
Conservative Party, Mr Kilroy-Silk unexpectedly quit the group before it
considered moves to suspend him, dealing a severe blow to the party's
credibility.

The UKIP power struggle was a bizarre sideshow at the European Parliament
yesterday where Euro MPs forced the postponement of the appointment of a new
European Commission.

During a day of turmoil in Strasbourg, Mr Kilroy-Silk was threatened with forced
ejection from the European Parliament chamber after he brought a crucial debate
on the future of the EC to a standstill by barracking fellow MEPs. He was
accused of being a hooligan and behaving "like a spoilt child".

Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision to resign the UKIP whip was the culmination of weeks
of infighting.

He emerged as the party's figurehead after its breakthrough in last June's
European elections. Last month, UKIP pushed the Conservatives into fourth place
in the Hartlepool by-election.

There was undisguised delight within Tory ranks over the turmoil within UKIP.
One Tory MP said the party appeared to be pressing the "self-destruct" button.

Many Tories feared that if Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former television presenter, became
the leader, he would have given UKIP a much higher profile in the coming general
election.

He has split UKIP over his attempt to replace the little-known Roger Knapman as
its leader. Earlier this month, Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire multi-millionaire,
pulled out as UKIP's biggest financial backer after Mr Kilroy-Silk was
instrumental in persuading the party to seek to destroy the Conservatives.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was a Labour MP before his television career, said the party
needed him as leader if to be a serious political force.

He met severe resistance from the party's old guard, including Nigel Farage,
leader of the UKIP group in the European Parliament. A poll of constituency
chairman was said to be overwhelmingly in favour of Mr Knapman.

At yesterday's monthly meeting of UKIP MEPs in Strasbourg, Mr Kilroy-Silk's
position was high on the agenda, with some members wanting to suspend him. He
refused to attend, calling it a "kangaroo court".

Despite saying yesterday morning that he would not quit, he later announced that
he was resigning the whip but would not be leaving the party. He will carry on
as a Euro MP for the East Midlands but will now sit as an independent.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he was relieved that he would no longer have to defend
actions of UKIP members that he found embarrassing. "I won't have to defend
Godfrey Bloom telling women to clean behind their fridges," he said.

The remaining UKIP members seemed equally relieved. One insider described the
news as "wonderful".

Mr Knapman said he thought that the group would have given Mr Kilroy-Silk a
final warning rather than withdraw the whip from him. "He jumped, he was not
pushed," he said.

Coming out of the chamber, Mr Kilroy-Silk gave comfort to Rocco Buttiglione, the
Catholic nominee for justice commissioner whose views on homosexuals and women
triggered the defeat of the new commission team yesterday.

"It's you and me together: we are both going to be kicked out today," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              28 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

Blair's troops arm the enemy in Commons trench warfare Commons sketch

BYLINE: By Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 614 words

TONY BLAIR got hit over the head with an entrenching tool at Prime Minister's
Questions yesterday.

The honour of inflicting the blow fell to Michael Howard, the Conservative Party
leader, who showed his usual commendable relish for hand-to-hand combat.

But the actual weapon was supplied by Derek Scott, Mr Blair's former economics
adviser.

At Millbank Tower, close to the Palace of Westminster, Mr Scott yesterday
delivered a lucid and lethal speech in which he smashed to smithereens the case
made by Mr Blair for signing the European Constitution.

Two hours later, in the House of Commons, Mr Howard asked why Mr Blair will fly
to Rome tomorrow to sign a European Constitution that will "entrench Europe's
economic failings and drag Britain down too".

Mr Blair responded with a routine defence of the constitution, which in his
opinion "modernises" Europe while leaving us in full control of such vital
matters as tax. To "modernise" something is in the Prime Minister's opinion an
unshakeable justification for it.

At this point Mr Howard repeated the "entrench" quotation and revealed that it
was actually by Mr Scott, the Prime Minister's former adviser, whose advice Mr
Blair presumably took seriously.

The Prime Minister rose and was obliged to begin his reply by saying of Mr
Scott: "I'm sure I always take his advice seriously."

The House was in such uproar that Mr Blair then had to repeat three times: "I
think it is important to recognise . . . I think it is important to recognise .
. . I think it is important to recognise."

The repetition of those words put some of us in mind of Lewis Carroll's Bellman,
whose refrain was: "What I tell you three times is true."

But Mr Blair was thinking of something much more important, namely how to shift
the debate on to ground favourable to himself and launch a counter-attack, a
manoeuvre at which he is outstandingly able.

The Prime Minister accordingly charged the Tory Party with wanting to use
refusal of the constitution as a way to renegotiate Britain's existing terms of
EU membership, "and that means getting out of Europe".

Mr Howard moved in for the kill by pointing out that Mr Scott has explicitly
dismissed the claim by Mr Blair that the only choice before us is either to
accept the constitution as it now stands or to leave the EU.

Mr Scott has confirmed that the Government was "too gutless" to argue for other,
better ways in which the EU can be reformed, and "gutless" was the word Mr
Howard now flung at the Prime Minister.

Mr Blair is too skilful a performer to be completely flummoxed, but the best
response that he could come up with was to conduct another transparent change of
subject and say: "What's gutless is to run from the UK Independence Party."

It was strange to see a Prime Minister in possession of a huge parliamentary
majority turning for succour to the UK Independence Party, especially on a day
when that tiny party appeared to be tearing itself apart.

But the truth is that Mr Blair is starting to look rather short of friends on
his own side of the House. It is not just Mr Scott who has wearied of him. A
large part of the Labour Party is disgusted by Mr Blair's foreign policy,
notably in Iraq, and many of his backbenchers also find his domestic record
thin.

Gordon Prentice (Lab, Pendle) challenged Mr Blair to name "a single dramatic act
of renewal which would make the British public sit up and take note" of the
Government's achievements since 1997.

It was an astonishingly disloyal question, and Mr Blair looked furious when it
was asked, but it accurately conveys the disenchantment with which many of the
Prime Minister's own supporters now regard him.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              29 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

The Euro parliament is no longer a joke for bored hacks When the will of nations
is squashed in Strasbourg, it is time to bring power home, says Boris Johnson

BYLINE: By Boris Johnson

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 26

LENGTH: 977 words

It was a pretty chastening experience to be an MP yesterday, and not just for
your columnist, but for all 659 of us. There we were, shuffling through the
green-carpeted lobbies in the time-honoured way, trailing our fingers on the
warm worn oak, bowing to the tellers, bending together in the forgivable
halitosis of intimate conspiracy. Time after time, we gathered to vote on the
Domestic Violence Etc Bill (Lords) Report stage, expressing the will of the
people according to our ancient system. And what did the world care? Not a fig.

Where was the action, the news, the story? It was hundreds of miles away in the
upstart parliament of Strasbourg, the restaurant-rich Alsatian city. In
Westminster, we beavered away in Gormenghast-like oblivion. In Strasbourg, they
had excitement; they had drama; they had the noisy tectonic grindings of the new
constitutional geology. What a scene it must have been for the immense army of
journalists, lobbyists and poules de luxe who follow the Euro parliament's
caravanserai from Brussels to Strasbourg. What gasps there must have been in the
space-age bars and galleries, where they sit sipping their cremant d'Alsace.
First a British political party, UKIP, went into spasm, with momentous
consequences for the forthcoming general election. It is hard to know what verb
to use of Kilroy's resignation of the UKIP whip. Did he flounce out? Did he
stalk out? Did he blow a gasket? It does not matter.

UKIP may be minuscule, but when UKIP splits - like any other subatomic particle
- the effects can be spectacular. It was to Kilroy that such natural Tories as
Joan Collins were drawn, when UKIP began to make its advances earlier this year.
It was Kilroy's tangerine-man charisma that seemed to lure the Tory grassroots;
but if Kilroy was here, he certainly doesn't seem to be here any more. Perhaps
some of the Ukippers will now drift back to the Tories; perhaps Kilroy will
found his own new Party for United Kingdom Independence (PUKI), and sweep the
country. It does not matter. The salient point is that it all happened somewhere
in the Rhineland, and we in London can only look on in wonderment.

And yet the detonation of UKIP was nothing, of course, next to the decision of
the parliament to throw out the new European Commission, mainly because it
disliked the cut of the jib of Sig Rocco Buttiglione. It is not our purpose here
to discuss the rights and wrongs of this decision. Rocco is a bit hardline for
my taste, but there have been many who have already pointed out that insofar as
he believes homosexuality to be a sin, Sig Buttiglione is only echoing Catholic
teaching. Many have observed that his views on unmarried mothers are certainly
Right-wing, but do not put him beyond the pale of civilised discourse. It has
been well said that there is a vital distinction between the public and the
private sphere, and that Sig Buttiglione is entitled to his personal opinions,
and that there is no reason in principle why he should not carry out his
Eurocratic duties. Here we are in Britain, so deferential to freedom of personal
belief that we put aside a special prayer room for a Satanist on a Royal Navy
vessel; and yet when a man comes before the Euro parliament professing orthodox
Catholic teaching, he is chucked out in disgust! It is weird; and yet, as I say,
it is not the justice of the Euro parliament's actions that should detain us. It
is the fact of the decision.

What is a commissioner? Never mind the nonsense they swear in their oaths, about
loyalty to the European cause. The EU commissioners are there at the top of the
bureaucracy very largely to represent the point of view of the government that
sent them there. British commissioners may sometimes go native, but on the whole
the Italian commissioner sticks up for Italy, the German commissioner for
Germany, and so on. Sig Buttiglione was sent to Brussels with all the solemn
authority of the government in Rome. That government's authority in turn derives
from the sovereign people of Italy. And yet Sig Buttiglione has been rejected by
a polyglot babel of 25 countries, and the will of the people of Italy has been
frustrated. What we saw yesterday was the collision of two democratic
imperatives: the right of the people of Italy to have their government's man in
Brussels, and the right of that nebulous demos, the people of Europe -
represented in this bizarre mother-in-law of parliaments - to say no.

Years ago, when there were only 12 countries in the EU, and the hemicycles were
less opulent, I used to report from the Euro parliament, and I am afraid some of
us reporters used to treat it as a bit of a joke. There would be Italian
hard-core porn stars, elected on the list system, rubbing shoulders with
choleric former SS men, and curious Tyrolean Greens in trilbies and lederhosen.
The parliament would pass portentous motions condemning things completely
outside its power, such as famines and earthquakes. We used to sip our cremant
d'Alsace, write a few funny stories, and go back to Brussels. I am not sure the
Euro parliament is a joke any more.

Parliaments tend to acquire powers, as their inhabitants learn how to use the
constitutional tools at their disposal. Under the various treaties, the
parliament has gained ever more ways of amending legislation, and European
legislation has become ever more burdensome.

And yet hardly anyone knows who their Euro MP is, and hardly anyone votes in the
Euro elections. It is deeply anti-democratic. What is the answer? The first step
is to recognise what is going on, and to take steps to shore up the machicolated
and moth-eaten institution in which I now sit. We may be less exotic than the
Euro MPs, but at least people tend to know who we are, where to find us, and how
to get rid of us.

Boris Johnson is MP for Henley and editor of The Spectator

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              30 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 28, 2004

KILROY WAS HERE. . .BUT NOT FOR LONG; REBEL EURO MP GIVES UP UKIP WHIP, IS THEN
BRANDED A HOOLIGAN AND FINALLY NEARLY GETS THROWN OUT OF THE PARLIAMENT FOR
SHOUTING

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 586 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night threw the UK Independence Party into disarray by
quitting its team of Euro MPs.

Later, he was accused of being a hooligan and behaving "like a spoilt child"
after barracking fellow MEPs in Strasbourg.

He landed himself in trouble with European parliament chiefs for bellowing for
attention from his seat in the debating chamber.

"Point of order. Oi! Point of order, " shouted Mr Kilroy-Silk, laughing as he
was told to shut up and sit down.

Socialist group leader Martin Schulz, trying to speak in response to the
European Commission's dramatic retreat in the row over anti-gay Italian
Commissioner Rocco Buttiglione, looked at Mr Kilroy-Silk and said: "Perhaps
Parliament's medical services could despatch some tranquillisers."

As the shouting went on, Mr Schulz complained of "hooligans in the parliament".
After appeals from Parliament President Josep Borrell, Mr Kilroy-Silk finally
sat down, still laughing.

But as more speakers rose, he intervened again until Mr Borrell told him: "If
you continue disrupting the meeting I shall have to eject you."

Later Mr Borrell invited Mr KilroySilk to make his point of order - a complaint
that Commission President Jose Manuel Borroso had failed to show respect to the
parliament.

Mr Borrell warned him that his remark was not a point of order and that he
should sit down and be quiet.

Most of Mr Kilroy-Silk's remarks were not heard beyond the chamber because his
microphone was switched off.

West Midlands Labour MEP Michael Cashman said: "Kilroy was jumping up and down
like a spoilt child. He must have had a momentary lapse of reason and thought he
really was the leader of Ukip."

Reacting to Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision to leave the Ukip group of MEPs and sit as
an independent, he added:

"Once again this shows what a ragbag group of eccentrics the UK Independence
Party really are, masquerading on a single issue but with many hidden agendas.

"Kilroy is only interested in himself and this decision is hardly a surprise.
What does he stand for? The people that voted for him back in June deserve to
know."

Earlier, the former chat-show host had launched a devastating attack on the Ukip
leadership, branding it "amateurish and unprofessional."

Following months of bitter in-fighting, Mr Kilroy-Silk said he was leaving
because he could no longer work with his Ukip colleagues.

The outspoken politician will remain a member of the party, but will now sit as
an independent Euro MEP. Many observers believe Mr Kilroy-Silk jumped before he
was pushed. The Ukip leadership had issued repeated warnings about his disloyal
comments and was considering withdrawing the whip before he quit.

A party spokesman said: "Robert Kilroy-Silk doesn't do much except generate
negative press comment. If he has withdrawn from the whip then to a certain
extent he ceases to be our problem. But we would remind him that the people of
the East Midlands voted for a Ukip MEP and not a maverick independent.

"We welcome the peace that will hopefully return to Ukip and will allow us to
get on with the task of fighting the EU rather than fighting Kilroy-Silk." But
Mr Kilroy-Silk, a Sunday Express columnist, said the move would not make "the
slightest bit of difference" to him. He added that he would no longer have to
defend things that he found "embarrassing".

Mr Kilroy-Silk sparked the ferocious row by attempting to take over the Ukip
leadership from the littleknown Roger Knapman.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              31 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 28, 2004

'You're all barmy.' Exit Kilroy from Ukip group

BYLINE: David Gow in Strasbourg and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 510 words


The bitter feud between Robert Kilroy-Silk and the UK Independence party came to
a head yesterday when the former chatshow host walked out on his European
parliament colleagues and denounced them as "barmy".

To the delight of the Tories, who had feared that Ukip could inflict severe
damage in next year's general election, Mr Kilroy-Silk declared he would remain
in the party and try to wrest control of the leadership.

Insisting he had pre-empted a move to expel him from Ukip's 12-strong
parliamentary group, Mr Kilroy-Silk depicted himself as a moderating force and
condemned his former colleagues as extremists.

"I am relieved and happy to leave a group which engaged in barmy politics,"
declared the man who embraced Ukip after being thrown out of the BBC for
branding Arabs "limb amputators".

Warming to his theme, Mr Kilroy-Silk rounded on his former colleagues for urging
women to clean behind the fridge and tearing up voting papers on the first day
of the new European parliament.

Mr Kilroy-Silk also claimed he had been appalled by Ukip's decision to join the
same political group in the parliament as the League of Polish Families, which
was allegedly anti-semitic and racist.

With tempers running high, Mr Kilroy-Silk came within a whisker of being ejected
from the parliament's huge chamber for repeated interruptions as MEPs debated
the new European commission. Martin Schulz, the German leader of the socialist
group of MEPs, accused him of "political hooliganism".

"These people who claim to represent the citizens of Eu rope should be ashamed
of themselves," he said.

Graham Watson, Liberal group leader, apologised for British colleagues "hurling
insults from the back of the hall". He said: "I'm quite ashamed that Britain is
known for its football hooligans and even more so when I see their political
representatives here in parliament."

Mr Kilroy-Silk was also criticised by his former Ukip colleagues for dividing
the party. Nigel Farrage, the leader of the party in the European parliament,
said: "I'm obviously very sad about his resignation. Robert is enormously
talented and a great communicator but, if Ukip is to succeed, we have to be a
unified team."

Ukip's leader, Roger Knapman, said he regretted Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision.

He said it left Mr Kilroy- Silk's leadership ambitions in disarray.

He told PA News: "He did have talents, particularly in the promotion of the
party and of himself. But he has caused us a lot of negative coverage.

He added: "If he can't stand the leadership of the party or the leadership of
the group I don't see how he can become the leader of the party."

But Mr Kilroy-Silk insisted he had committed no offence.

"I can't wait until it's all over," he said, accusing the leader of treating
Ukip as "his personal plaything" and failing to observe due process in moves to
expel him.

"I used to belong to an adult political party with proper procedures for
imposing discipline," he said.

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 28, 2004

Sketch: Tales of the unexpected in a parallel universe

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words


Several strange things happened during prime minister's questions yesterday.

Mr Blair - the prime minister himself! - was reproved by the Speaker. This was
as unexpected as if it turned out to be the referee who'd thrown the soup over
Sir Alex Ferguson.

Stranger yet, Michael Howard twice bested the PM, exposing him to ridicule over
the cuts in army manpower and the new European constitution.

Odder even than that, a number of Labour MPs, instead of slathering Mr Blair
with praise, like cats licking new-born kittens, actually had harsh words for
him.

And we had a prime example of what I think of as an almost unique
push-me-pull-you question. This is one that combines thick obsequiousness with
words of criticism, like custard laced with vinegar.

It came from Laura Moffatt, the MP for Crawley. How wonderful it was, she
trilled, that the modernisation of A&E services had improved everything for
patients.

Tory MPs began to groan. How could we be sure, she went on, that if there were
local difficulties, "as there are in the Surrey and Sussex Trust, where most
services are being transferred to other hospitals, and where ambulances are
having to wait for up to two hours, that doesn't undermine the fantastic work
that is going on?"

In other words, she was saying, "since the service doesn't work, let's not be
distracted from saying how wonderfully the service works".

The mind began to reel. "How can we make sure," she might have added, "that the
murder and mayhem in Iraq doesn't distract us from the fact that Iraq is so
peaceful"?

On army numbers, Mr Howard almost extracted an apology from Mr Blair, who,
having denied that there would soon be fewer soldiers, was obliged to admit that
there would. It was when Mr Blair tried to harp on about Tory plans for defence
spending, that the Speaker growled: "Perhaps you could leave defence and answer
the question."

Mingled horror and delight! As if Jeeves had told Bertie Wooster to sod off!

Then Mr Howard asked if it wasn't the case that the new European constitution
would "entrench Europe's economic failings and drag Britain down".

Mr Blair denied this, but the Tory leader revealed that these were the words of
Derek Scott, who for more than six years was the PM's economic adviser.

Mr Blair could hardly reply with the truth: that, so far as he was aware, Mr
Scott sat in a small cupboard in Downing Street, where the cleaners had
instructions to dust him now and again.

He was saved by Mr Howard going one stage too far and calling him "gutless".
This allowed the PM to accuse him of being gutless in fleeing Ukip, which, you
may recall, until this week was a sort of political party but is now just a
ramshackle bagful of loonies.

Then Gordon Prentice, a stroppy Labour MP, pointed out that Mr Blair was forever
banging on about change and renewal, but "after seven years, can you point to
any single dramatic act of renewal that would make the British people sit up and
take notice"?

This was open warfare, a sling shot from his own side. Mr Blair recited his
usual list of achievements: economic stability, more jobs, minimum wage etc,
then said: "That's some renewal! Maybe you should go back and tell your
constituents about it!"

I don't suppose Mr Prentice will. He is under attack from Lib Dems in Pendle,
and presumably plans to run on the "Vote Labour, and get rid of this dreadful
government" ticket.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 28, 2004

Policy and politics: Tories housing strategy 'comes close to playing race card'

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington Regional affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 316 words


Michael Howard was accused yesterday of coming close to playing the race card in
a new Conservative party housing strategy which blames immigration for creating
a shortage of accommodation in the south of England.

The National Housing Federation said the Conservative leader was playing a
dangerous game by making wildly misleading claims without any substance.

Although the 40-page strategy document - The Right to Own; Action on Housing -
highlights the case for selling 1m housing association homes to tenants at
knockdown prices, its claims on im migration shocked housing professionals.

With the number of immigrants at 158,000 a year, the Conservatives claim the
effect on housing demand "is much more significant than . . . relocation from
the north to the south of England".

But without providing any qualification, the strategy adds controversially:
"Some analysts believe that the implications of government figures on net
immigration, housing stock and house building make it the single most
significant factor affecting demand."

Jim Coulter, chief executive of the federation, which represents housing
associations, accused the Conservatives of "coming close to playing the race
card". He added: "Their comments, without any figures to back them up, are
underhand, inappropriate and completely wrong."

The hardening Tory line on immigration and housing, already worrying party
moderates, is clearly seen as way of shoring up a traditional vote and
countering a threat from the UK Independence party.

Extending the right to buy to 1m housing association tenants is seen by the
leadership as a popular proposal for middle and lower income families,
particularly in parts of the south. More than 1.5m council houses have been sold
at a cost of almost £2bn since Margaret Thatcher introduced the policy in the
early 80s.

SocietyGuardian.co.uk/housing


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 28, 2004

Policy and politics: 'You're barmy.' Exit Kilroy from Ukip group

BYLINE: David Gow in Strasbourg and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 315 words


The feud between the UK Independence party and Robert Kilroy-Silk came to a head
yesterday as the former chatshow host walked out on his European parliament
colleagues and dubbed them "barmy".

To the delight of the Tories, who had feared that Ukip could inflict severe
damage in next year's general election, Mr Kilroy-Silk declared he would stay in
the party and try to wrest control of the leadership.

Insisting he had pre-empted a move to expel him from Ukip's 12-strong
parliamentary group, he depicted himself as a moderating force and called his
former colleagues extremists. "I am relieved and happy to leave a group which
engaged in barmy politics," declared the man who joined Ukip after being thrown
out of the BBC for branding Arabs "limb amputators".

He condemned his former colleagues for urging women to clean behind the fridge
and tearing up voting papers on the first day of the new European parliament.

Mr Kilroy-Silk also claimed he had been appalled by Ukip's decision to join the
same political group in the parliament as the League of Polish Families, which
was allegedly anti-semitic and racist.

With tempers running high, he came within a whisker of being ejected from the
parliament's huge chamber for repeated interruptions as MEPs debated the
European commission. Martin Schulz, the German leader of the Socialist group of
MEPs, accused him of "political hooliganism".

Mr Kilroy-Silk was also criticised by Ukip members for dividing the party. The
leader of the party in the European parliament, Nigel Farrage, said: "I'm
obviously very sad about his resignation. Robert is enormously talented . . .
but, if Ukip is to succeed, we have to be a unified team."

Roger Knapman, Ukip leader, said he regretted Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision. "He has
caused us a lot of negative coverage."

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

KILROY IS SILENCED AFTER SPLIT FROM UKIP'S MEPS

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 237 words


THE former daytime television host Robert Kilroy-Silk said yesterday he will
have no more to do with his fellow UK Independence Party MEPs during a day of
histrionics at the European Parliament.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, whose fame helped propel UKIP to success in June's Euro-
elections, said he was quitting before UKIP MEPs withdrew the parliamentary whip
from him over his push to lead the party. He said he will remain in the national
party and refused to abandon the leadership bid.

Mr Kilroy-Silk made a determined effort to grab the limelight by earlier
demanding the right to address fellow MEPs as the leaders of political groups
were asked to speak. Banging on his desk and shouting "oi", Mr Kilroy-Silk was
refused the floor by the Parliament's president, Josep Borrell, who, despite
several minutes of interruption, did not order him to be removed.

Mr Kilroy-Silk later said: "I have said I will not work with the parliamentary
party in Strasbourg again, but I will remain a member of UKIP." He accused the
party hierarchy of producing trumped-up charges against him, including the claim
that he had offended the UKIP supporter Joan Collins by failing to attend her
book launch.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, added: "I used to belong to a proper party
with rules of procedure. We seem to have an absent leader and a leader of the
parliamentary party who sees it as his personal plaything."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

KILROY QUITS UKIP WHIP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk yesterday insisted he wanted to stick with UKIP - despite
branding it "embarrassing" and "amateurish".

As he quit the party whip to sit as an independent MEP, he said: "These people
wanted to metaphorically hang me a few days ago. Now they want me to be their
friend. I don't do that."

Mr Kilroy-Silk - who almost got thrown out of the chamber for giggling during a
speech yesterday - said he was now considering setting up his own party.

But a UKIP spokesman said: "He doesn't do much except generate negative press
comment. Now he ceases to be our problem."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              37 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 28, 2004

KILROY WOZ 'ERE

BYLINE: Nic Cecil, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 215 words


(Photograph) - ANGRY Robert Kilroy-Silk loses his cool in the European
Parliament yesterday in an outburst that saw him branded a hooligan.

Kilroy-Silk, who yesterday announced he was quitting as a UKIP MEP, caused a
storm by barracking a rival in the debating chamber.

The former TV chat show host bellowed: "Point of order! Oi! Point of order!"

As he yelled out Socialist group leader Martin Schulz, who was trying to speak
during a debate on the new EU Commission, said sarcastically: "Perhaps
Parliament's medical services could despatch some tranquillisers."

When the ex-Labour MP continued to shout Mr Schulz branded him a hooligan.

Kilroy-Silk finally sat down only after the Parliament's president Josep Borrell
warned: "If you continue disrupting the meeting I shall have to eject you."

West Midlands Labour MEP Michael Cashman said later: "Kilroy was jumping up and
down like a spoilt child."

Earlier Kilroy-Silk announced he was resigning the UKIP whip -abandoning his bid
to seize control of the party.

He will now sit as an independent Euro MP. UKIP last night welcomed his
decision, saying he had been "a negative influence" in the party. A poll of UKIP
branch chairmen last week showed 70 per cent wanted Roger Knapman to stay as
leader.


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              38 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 28, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy quits UKIP group in Europe

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow and Anthony Browne

SECTION: Overseas news; 11

LENGTH: 407 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK resigned yesterday as an MEP for the UK Independence Party,
turning his back on the group that had threatened to kick him out.

The former chat-show host said that he would sit as an independent MEP and
remain a member of UKIP, but would have to "rethink" his intention to stand for
the party in the forthcoming general election.

It was the party's most rancorous day since Mr Kilroy-Silk began his struggle to
oust its leader, Roger Knapman, three and a half weeks ago.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that he took the decision to leave yesterday morning, hours
before the UKIP's 11 MEPs were due to meet in Strasbourg to discuss whether he
should be expelled from the group.

He said that it was a huge relief to distance himself from the UKIP MEPs whose
behaviour he had found embarrassing, and accused Nigel Farage, the MEP closest
to Mr Knapman, of secretly running the party.

"I've won and I've walked away," Mr Kilroy-Silk said after attending a session
of the European Parliament in Strasbourg. "They've backed down, they were going
to withdraw the whip, but I kept saying, this isn't due process, and not the way
to run a political party.

"Not only do we have an invisible leader, we have incompetence on a large
scale," he said. "Nigel treats the party as a one-man plaything, and the leader
just says 'yes Nigel, no Nigel'.

"I'm relieved not to have to defend some of the strange things they've done," he
said, citing UKIP MEPS who had told women to clean behind the fridge, and
another who compared withdrawal from the EU to the Chechen struggle for
independence from Russia, "days after the Beslan massacre".

Mr Farage said that he regretted Mr Kilroy-Silk's departure, but that he left
because he wanted to pursue his leadership battle. "This is about leadership and
personalities. My views on it were clear: he had gone too far and we had to do
something about it."

The Conservatives were relishing the latest turmoil. Liam Fox, the Tory party
co-chairman, said: "This is yet another shambolic episode in the chequered
history of UKIP."

Yesterday morning Mr Kilroy-Silk was threatened with expulsion from the floor of
the European Parliament for standing and repeatedly shouting "point of order"
over other speakers. He caused uproar as MEPs banged their desks to drown him
out while he tried to make a point about the incoming commission president, Jose
Manuel Durao Barroso.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 27, 2004

Poll shows public opposes Black Watch move in Iraq: Labour increases lead as
Ukip erodes Tory vote

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475 words


There is overwhelming public opposition to the government's decision to move the
850 British troops and support staff of the Black Watch to support US operations
north of their usual Iraqi base in Basra.

The results of this month's Guardian/ICM poll show that even a majority of
Labour voters - 55% - are opposed to the decision, a finding which is likely to
fuel criticism from Labour backbenchers.

But the poll also shows that anti-war sentiment in Britain has slumped by 11
points since it recorded a record high of 56% in July. Public opinion remains
deeply divided over whether the war against Iraq was justified with 43% saying
it was necessary and 46% believing it was unjustified.

The continuing turbulence faced by the government over the war and by the more
recent row over gambling, however, has failed to dent Labour's prospects for a
third term. The poll shows Labour's lead has stretched to six points this month,
with the anti-Europe UK Independence party continuing to eat away at the Tories'
core support.

The poll shows that 61% of the public say they oppose the decision to redeploy
the First Battalion of the Black Watch. Only 30% say they approve.

Tony Blair has particularly failed to get his case to women voters on this
issue. Women have been far more strongly anti-war than men and only 22% approve
of his decision to agree to the US request.

This is borne out in the responses to the Guardian/ICM war tracker question
which asks voters whether or not they think the war to remove Saddam Hussein was
justified. Only 39% of women say it was compared with 47% of men.

Opposition to the war is strongest among Liberal Democrats at 62%. A majority -
52% - of Tory voters also oppose it. But among Labour voters opinion is split
two to one in the other direction with 59% saying they approved of the war and
only 32% agreeing that it was unjustified.

The continuing support for the war among Labour voters is a big factor in the
party's dominance in voting intentions. If there was a general election
tomorrow, 37% say they would vote Labour - up one point since last month.

This is six points ahead of the Tories who have fallen from 33% to 32% in the
last month with the Lib Dems consolidating their position on 23%. These figures
would be enough to give Labour a third term in government with a majority of
more than 100 seats .

The continual erosion of the Tory position - down from 35% share of the vote on
the Guardian/ICM poll in March to only 31% - is matched by the rise of Ukip's
share which reached 4% this month.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,001 adults aged 18 and over by telephone
between October 22 and 24 2004. Interviews were conducted across the country and
the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

Bush asks for extra funds, page 13


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 27, 2004

Barroso faces defeat at hands of MEPs

BYLINE: David Gow in Strasbourg

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 705 words


The new European commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, is facing defeat and
the removal of his entire team at the hands of MEPs in a historic vote today
that could plunge the EU into crisis.

A narrow majority of the 731 MEPs, perhaps 30 to 40, was preparing to defy
arm-twisting by Tony Blair, Germany's Gerhard Schroder and other EU leaders to
back Mr Barroso despite hostility to his choice of Rocco Buttiglione as the
justice commissioner and serious doubts over the competence of four other
commissioners. Defeat appeared even more inevitable last night when Mr Barroso
was reported to have told the key Liberal group that he was unable to offer a
reshuffle of his team. Liberal sources said 50 of its 88-strong group would
definitely vote against the commission.

The Liberal leader, Graham Watson, said last night: "It seems to me the
commission will be defeated tomorrow unless something happens overnight. I find
it incredible that Buttiglione has not . . . offered his withdrawal."

Amid frantic horse trading, a Christian Democrat suggested that Mr Barroso, in
the face of defeat or the slimmest of victories, was considering going to the 25
heads of government to win backing for a reshuffle. "It may not come to a vote;
we could put the whole thing off," he said as even Hans-Gert Pottering, the
leader of the 268-strong centre-right EPP, the European parliament's largest
political group, admitted Mr Barroso's majority could be tight.

EU diplomats said that at the very least the new president would have to shift
Mr Buttiglione to another post to ensure victory. But last night that and other
options seemed to be evaporating.

Mr Barroso was reported to have telephoned Silvio Berlusconi yesterday, amid
speculation that the Italian prime minister had refused a request to remove Mr
Buttiglione, who is an outspoken critic of gay and women's rights.

The entire 19-strong British Labour faction was said to be resisting Downing
Street pressure for a yes vote and ready to side with 181 colleagues in the
Socialist group to demand Mr Buttiglione's ousting in what sources called a
"small" reshuffle. As the parliament prepared to assert its demands for more
power, giving "greater democratic legitimacy to the EU", even six of the 28
British Tories were reportedly planning to defy their whips over the Barroso
team. The 11 Ukip party members will all vote no, joining forces with 42 Greens,
41 Nationalists and several non-attached MEPs.

While Labour and Tory waverers could save Mr Barroso - giving him at best a
pyrrhic victory - the real king-makers remain the 88-strong liberal group led by
Mr Watson: the Scot had welcomed Mr Barroso's latest concessions as worthy of
support but 50 of his team do not agree.

Well-placed socialist sources suggested that, without a reshuffle of the
commission, at least 380 MEPs, and probably more, would vote out the commission,
including Peter Mandelson, the trade commissioner, in an unprecedented display
of parliamentary power. Today's cliff-hanger vote technically requires 366 for
victory either way. Abstentions do not count.

The fact that the ballot is public, unlike the secret one that approved Mr
Barroso as president in late July, is not seen as a damper on those tending
towards a no vote.

Mr Barroso, elected by 413 votes to 251, is safe in his post as president but
the socialist leader, Martin Schulz, said that the concessions - taking charge
of civil liberties and beefing up EU antidiscrimination laws - remained
cosmetic. "It's old wine in new bottles," he said.

Demanding a mini reshuffle of portfolios, he said: "He's still got time - up to
noon tomorrow." He denied plunging the EU into an institutional crisis.

Mr Barroso, appealing for a vote of confidence, said he had got parliament's
message but said a reshuffle would "cause more political and inter-institutional
problems than it would solve" - code for his inability to get national
government approval.

He annoyed scores of MEPs by urging them not to side with extremist Eurosceptics
by voting out his team, and by calling for a relaunch of the transatlantic axis
and stronger relations with the US.

Ian Black, page 24

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 27, 2004, Wednesday

IF ONLY THE TORIES HAD OPPOSED THE WAR;
 THEY ARE DOMINATED BY A NEO-CONSERVATIVE CABAL WHOSE VIEWS ARE AT

BYLINE: SIMON NIXON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 880 words


At a lunch at one of London's grander clubs the other day, a Tory candidate for
a marginal seat in the West Country was bemoaning the challenge that lay ahead.
It was all very difficult, he said. Not only was he up against a Liberal
Democrat with a majority of several thousand, but he also had to contend with
UKIP. People must be out of their minds to vote for fringe parties. Couldn't
they see that the only way to get rid of this awful government was to vote
Conservative?

There was much nodding around the table. Yes indeed. A terrible shame. An awful
government etc. There was an assumption that everybody present was a Tory. It
was that kind of lunch. It was that kind of club. So it fell to me to say what I
suspected everybody was thinking. "I am a regular Tory voter but if I lived in
your constituency, I wouldn't vote for you. Like everybody I know, I'm disgusted
by the Iraq war and have no intention of voting for the party that helped get us
into his mess."

There was an awkward silence. Then somebody sitting opposite bashfully admitted
that he agreed with me. Somebody else said he intended to vote UKIP. Another
said he hadn't yet made up his mind but he knew his wife and children planned to
vote Lib Dem. It soon became apparent that if an election were held that
afternoon, our beleaguered candidate could only be sure of one vote at the table
- his own.

This won't have come as any surprise to anybody who has listened to what
disgruntled Conservative voters are saying - or looked closely at the opinion
polls. Ever since the Iraq crisis blew up in March 2002, opinion polls have
consistently shown that Conservative voters are far more opposed to the Iraq war
than Labour voters.

An ICM poll in June showed that 52 per cent of Tories thought the Iraq war
unjustified compared to 39 per cent of Labour supporters. The same pattern is
reflected in attitudes to the US election. A YouGov poll in The Spectator shows
that only 19 per cent of Conservative voters would vote for George Bush,
compared to 21 per cent of Labour voters, whereas 45 per cent of Tories support
Senator Kerry, compared to 43 per cent of Labour voters.

The strength of opposition to the Iraq war among Conservative voters has been
one of the most remarkable - and least remarked upon - features of the political
landscape. The Tory leadership is dominated by a neo- conservative cabal whose
views are fundamentally at odds with the instincts of its traditional
supporters. Had the party opposed the war, it would be cruising to election
victory.

For the Liberal Democrats, this presents a huge opportunity. Traditional
Conservative voters who opposed the war are deeply ambivalent about a party that
gives the impression it would do it all again in Iraq. Some will drift to UKIP.
Many could be persuaded to vote Lib Dem. But they do need to be persuaded, which
means getting the rhetoric right.

The key word here is "liberty". When the Tory leadership talks about liberty, it
gives the impression that freedom is essentially a function of the tax rate -
which only goes to show how little they understand the instincts of many of
those upon whose votes they depend.

Many of those who voted Conservative in the Cold War years in order to defeat
communism at home and abroad are not rich or obsessed with money. Typically,
those traditional Tory stereotypes are conscientious public servants who care
deeply about the institutions that bind society together. They instinctively
recognise that the only definition of liberty that matters is freedom from
arbitrary political control and that this requires strong, independent
institutions able to stand up to political interference.

True lovers of liberty are appalled by the politicisation of the civil service;
they are horrified by Tony Blair's contempt for parliament and his disregard for
the conventions of cabinet government; they are dismayed by the inability of
parliament to hold the executive to account (the toothless reports of the
Foreign Affairs and Intelligence Services committees into the Iraq war were an
affront to every true democrat); they are alarmed at the Blair government's
assault on the freedom of the press, notably in its attempt to intimidate the
BBC; and they are outraged by the powerlessness of the judiciary to prevent the
detention without trial of British subjects in Belmarsh and Guantanamo Bay.

Above all, they are contemptuous of a party whose support for the Iraq war has
left it with nothing to say on these abuses. Iraq has revealed a British state
in which the executive wields more power than a Stuart monarch and Tony Blair
exercises powers of patronage that would make Walpole blush. How dare the Tories
talk of their love of freedom while Tony Blair reassembles the trappings of
absolute monarchy?

Charles Kennedy should seize the moment. He should point out it was the party of
Gladstone that secured the foundations of our liberty by extending the
franchise, reforming parliament and establishing an independent civil service -
often in the teeth of Tory opposition. And he should point out that it is only
the party of Gladstone that promises to defend our liberty now.

nixon@spjn.freeserve.co.uk

The writer is City editor of The Week'

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 27, 2004, Wednesday

Another FCUKIP, Kilroy

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Features; Times2; 2

LENGTH: 99 words


One of the pleasures of my job is reporting on the UK Independence Party, which,
if it were a real soap-opera rather than a political one, would not be
Eastenders (Labour) or Emmerdale (the Conservatives) but Prisoner Cell Block H
-the kind of low-budget high drama you get only when a whole load of the same
sex is cooped up together.

On Sunday, Robert Kilroy-Silk, its aspiring leader, hinted that he may form a
breakaway party.

I know Kilroy-Silk does not do many things "just for laughs", but it wouldn't it
be great if he called UKIP the UK Kilroy Independence Party (UKKIP)?


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 27, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP showdown

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 51 words


The UK Independence Party is to have its second, and some say final, chance to
tame the ambitions of Robert Kilroy-Silk who wants to become party leader. All
the party's MEPs, including the leader, Roger Knapman, are to meet Mr
Kilroy-Silk after a session at the European Parliament in Strasbourg.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 25, 2004

UKIP 'to vote on Kilroy expulsion'

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 119 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk could be expelled from the UK Independence Party this week
over his 'erratic behaviour', it emerged yesterday.

Party leader Roger Knapman is expected to call a vote of UKIP's Euro MPs on
withdrawing the whip from the former chat show host.

Mr Knapman said there was 'enormous anger' that Mr Kilroy-Silk had refused to
abandon a public bid to oust him.

He added senior party figures were starting to wonder about his motivation in
joining UKIP.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, yesterday ignored an ultimatum from Mr Knapman to abandon
his leadership bid and threatened to form his own party. Meanwhile, former prime
minister John Major said UKIP risked helping Labour win a third term.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              45 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2004, Monday

Calling for a change in tactics

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 259 words


The Labour Party first used professional call centre staff for its 2001 general
election campaign when it moved part of the party's headquarters operation to
North Shields (writes Greg Hurst).

In March this year it opened a new national communications centre at Gosforth,
near Newcastle, with 40 staff responsible for telephone and direct mail, the
first time that Labour had manned such an operation outside an election period.

Last week the party agreed almost to treble to more than 100 the number of staff
in its call centre, after a rise from 40 to 80 over two years in its number of
field agents. But officials say that such work must interact with doorstep
canvassing activity.

The Liberal Democrats still place most emphasis on local activity by a small but
dedicated network of volunteers. They claim to have pioneered mailshots targeted
at particular voters, but prefer to deliver them by hand, which is cheaper and
maintains personal contract.

"We still like meeting people face to face. Listening to people and discussing
their problems with them is a better way of identifying potential supporters,"
Lord Rennard, the party's chief executive, said. "Liberal Democrats are always
short of resources financially but make up for it to a certain extent by the
enthusiasm of our activists."

The United Kingdom Independence Party, with a small membership but -at least
until this autumn -wealthy backers, has preferred to pay for massive poster
advertising and before June's elections hired the publicist Max Clifford.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

THE ALPHABET MAN;
 THE PAINTER AND PRINTMAKER WILLIAM NICHOLSON HAS LONG BEEN ECLIPSED

BYLINE: TOM ROSENTHAL Portraits of an artist: far left, Nicholson photographed
in 1912 and, left, his whimsical self-portrait for his first woodcut portfolio,
An Alphabet' E O HOPPE/ CORBIS; An animated tea-cosy': his unorthodox portrait
of Queen Victoria, left, brought Nicholson fame, although he never made any
money from the widely reprinted image and preferred personal work such as Miss
Simpson's Boots', below

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10,11,12

LENGTH: 3253 words


In 1887, aged 15, William Nicholson sold a painting for five pounds, worth about
pounds 200 in today's money. It is indicative of his wit and precocious talent
that he insisted on giving his patron a receipt in the form of a perfect trompe
l'oeil replica of that once valuable banknote engraved in stark black lettering
on white paper the size of a small handkerchief.

Sir William Nicholson (1872-1949) was, as an artist and as a man, a supreme
master of irony and a creature of infinite paradox. An Edwardian dandy, short,
slim, a flamboyant dresser and a great lover of women, he was an almost exact
contemporary of those two other masters of irony, Max Beerbohm and Aubrey
Beardsley.

But, while the reputations of Beerbohm and Beardsley burgeoned after their
deaths, Nicholson's was not only partly buried but, in "serious" terms, totally
eclipsed by that of his son Ben who, as Britain's most important abstract
painter (with an OM against his father's mere knighthood) gained a huge
international following and, in splendidly oedipal style, himself contributed to
the faint praise which helped to damn his father's status.

Even such taste-makers as the former Director of the Tate, Alan Bowness,
(himself Ben Nicholson's son-in-law), called him a "petit maitre". Yet, and here
is one of the prime ironies, he is the most readily recognised, the most
quintessentially famous artist of Middle England. There are literally thousands
of middle-class and, doubtless, even aristocratic houses that have a Nicholson
on their walls. There can be hardly a single print-seller or antiquarian
bookshop in these islands that doesn't have for sale one or other of his works.
They are not, of course, his paintings, but his instantly recognisable graphic
works, nearly always his woodcuts (or lithographic versions of them) from such
series as The Alphabet, Twelve Sports, London Types, Twelve Portraits, An
Almanac etc.

Nicholson was born in Newark-on-Trent in Nottinghamshire. His father was a
successful manufacturer of agricultural machinery and, for one spell, a
Conservative MP. William left school early to study at the Academician Hubert
von Herkomer's art school at Bushey, where he met Mabel Pryde, sister of the
Scottish artist James Pryde. His and Herkomer's ideas rarely meshed and he left
for Paris at 19. There he discovered his life-long passion for Velazquez and the
work of the virtuoso 17th-century French engraver Jacques Callot, who had a
profound influence on him, not only in his graphic work but also in his
paintings.

Aged 20, he eloped with Mabel Pryde and moved into a disused pub in Denham - The
Eight Bells. He met Edward Gordon Craig, the son of Ellen Terry, also just
married at 20 after an elopement, and the Craigs also moved into the pub. Craig,
at that time an actor but destined to become a visionary and influential stage
designer and director, doubtless helped to enthuse the intense theatricality of
Nicholson's early work, notably the very successful posters on which he worked
with his brother-in-law, James Pryde, using the pseudonym J&W Beggarstaff.
Influenced by Toulouse-Lautrec in style and design, they were revolutionary in
that they used cut-outs and collage and are, more than a century later, still
utterly striking in their vigour and originality.

His first hint of popularity came with a coloured woodcut of Persimmon, the
Prince of Wales's Derby winner, exhibited in 1896 and admired by Whistler who,
to some extent, became Nicholson's mentor. He introduced him to William
Heinemann, then the leading publisher of the day, who published to great acclaim
Nicholson's first woodcut portfolio, An Alphabet, with its whimsical
self-portrait of the painter as a pavement artist. Heinemann also published An
Alphabet of Twelve Sports, for which Rudyard Kipling wrote the verses
accompanying the pictures. (Kipling wrote on the proof of Coaching two lines
which were, alas, not published:

"Youth on the box and Liquor on the boot/ My Lord drives out with my Lord's
prostitute.")

When Heinemann tried to engage Kipling again for The Square Book of Animals
Kipling declined: "all Nicholson's animals are practically extinct in Great
Britain, their places being supplied by New Zealand lamb; Argentine beef; Ostend
rabbits; Rouen ducks; and continental poultry generally. The only way I tried
it, my verses became so deeply political (not to say protectionist) that I
stopped." For a letter written at the end of the 19th century it reads like an
anticipation of the UK Independence Party...

These publications did much to advance Nicholson's career, partly because they
were, and remain, such a rare example of art that is instantly communicative,
and hence popular, without in any way being either academic or conventional. One
of Nicholson's odder honours and distinctions was the award of a Gold Medal for
the Twelve Sports woodcuts at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympic Games. In fact all this
goes back to the virtually instantaneous success of his portrait of Queen
Victoria, a hand-coloured woodcut that appeared in The New Revue of June 1897.
Any patriot or courtier could argue that this portrait/caricature, measuring
only about nine inches square, was an act of lese majeste. It shows a rather
grumpy, almost spherical, little old lady with a walking stick and an Aberdeen
dog. Anything less like the conventional image of the Queen Empress would be
hard to imagine, yet, instead of being consigned to the Tower, Nicholson was
hugely praised. The Artist wrote that it "is a remarkably clever piece of work,
which cannot be spoilt even by the fulsome praise which an hysterical daily
paper the Daily Mail has dealt out to it." The influential art critic Haldane
Macfall said, "Bless my soul, they are beginning to fight about him. He is
indeed made."

Soon fakes of the print were in circulation and poor Nicholson earned nothing
from its sales, whether genuine or forged. In 1910 he wrote to Heinemann, who
had only published it reluctantly, "I have often wept at dawn to think I only
got pounds 10 10s for my little queen with which you have papered the world ...
and often have I wondered that you haven't sent me a pounds 1,000 hush money by
a black-masked messenger boy - even now I would pay the boy at this end."

Nicholson may have become both successful and fashionable but he was always
broke. Starting with Ben, Mabel gave him four children and had an almost
neurotic need to change houses continually, moving the family eight times in 20
years. She died in the flu epidemic of 1918, the same year in which Ben's
brother Tony died of wounds at the front. (Another son, Kit, was to die later in
a glider accident.)

In 1919 Nicholson married again, to Edie Phillips, who had lost her soldier
husband also in 1918. As there had been some kind of relationship between her
and Ben before she married William, this must have added to the already
considerable oedipal problems between artist father and son.

Nicholson liked to have complicated domestic arrangements. Having shared one
house with the Craigs, he proceeded to share another one when his daughter (by
Mabel) Nancy married Robert Graves (who had George Mallory of Everest fame as
his best man). Nicholson and Graves became fathers more or less simultaneously
and the two men launched an illustrated literary magazine called The Owl. It was
of high quality and soon went out of business.

Fortunately for his growing family commitments Nicholson was not only versatile
but immensely hard-working while never losing his genial, gregarious qualities.
He illustrated magazines, designed book jackets, wrote engaging children's books
(tried out on his own children at bed-time) and, naturally, illustrated them as
well. But his most celebrated book illustrations were from Margery Williams'
children's classic The Velveteen Rabbit. First published in 1922 it has never
since been out of print.

Doubtless in part because of his relationship with the Prydes and Edward Gordon
Craig, Nicholson became involved with the theatre and, after the Beggarstaffs
ceased to produce, did several theatrical posters including three for Thomas
Hardy's epic verse drama The Dynasts. Most notably he designed the first
production of J M Barrie's Peter Pan. This is described in her brief biography
of Nicholson by the popular novelist and dramatist Marguerite Steen who, after
he broke up with Edie Phillips, became his great love for the last decade of his
life. Steen, who had described the Queen Victoria of the woodcut as "an animated
tea-cosy", relates how Barrie wanted to have real pirates on stage and not
"Gilbert and Sullivan travesties." Nicholson, relishing the task, found a
gigantic black man - a rare sight in Britain in those days - whom he dressed
flamboyantly in a vast, tattered green silk dressing-gown and equipped with a
club as big as his head. Unfortunately, the effect was so powerful that some of
the children in the audience were scared into hysterics and that particular
pirate, whom Steen shamefully referred to (in 1943) as a "buck nigger" was
withdrawn.

Exciting as his theatrical activities doubtless were, they were not well paid.
What made it possible to support two sets of children was his skill as a
portraitist. Obviously many of his portraits, particularly those of writers,
were in his graphic works and these have given us the images we first think of
when we want to conjure up the faces of Kipling or Hardy. But, for obvious
reasons, he preferred to paint his family and friends. Consequently, his oil
portraits of fellow artists such as Walter Greaves or Beerbohm were among the
best he did.

Other notable portraits were the man of letters W E Henley and England's
greatest 20th-century garden designer, Gertrude Jekyll, now in the National
Portrait Gallery. Whimsical as ever, he also, in a small act of homage to van
Gogh, did a remarkable picture entitled Miss Jekyll's Gardening Boots (now in
the Tate).

About the official portraits of the great and the good he was always ambivalent,
needing the commissions but rarely relishing them. Yet he was always an honest
trader, so that even his 1918 picture of The Headquarters Staff of the Canadian
Forces is original in its grouping and in its juxtaposition of the officers
against the extraordinary, exquisitely painted version of a gigantic photograph
of the ruined Cloth Hall at Ypres. It is a painting that even Sargent in his
prime would have envied.

Nicholson was also - via his friend the architect Sir Edwin Lutyens -
commissioned to paint the Viceroy of India in New Delhi and, typically, produced
a painting that displeased the Viceroy but was a near masterpiece in its full
length portrait of the Viceroy's Orderly. Nicholson was so well-connected that
he was engaged by Winston Churchill, when he was out of office, to teach him
painting which he did, much to the politician's satisfaction. Nicholson, who
could be quite contrary at times, painted Churchill and his wife at breakfast
but continued to tinker with the painting so long after it was finished and to
such an extent as, virtually, to destroy it. Yet, at his best, as a portrait
painter he was a significant rival to Sargent and much superior to his
contemporaries and friends William Orpen and Augustus John.

To serious students of painting the best work he did was what he did to please
himself; the paintings for which the dread word "commissioned" did not arise.
There was no need to please a publisher bent on topicality and popular appeal;
no need to satisfy the vanity of an eminent bureaucrat; no need to please the
uneducated tastes of conventional committee men.

Which is why, instead of revealing the characters and personalities of other
people, he could relax and reveal his own mind and soul in landscapes,
mountains, windmills, the many houses he lived in, exquisite corners of English
topography, the sea port of La Rochelle, the Bull Ring in Malaga and, above all,
the sometimes almost mystical still lifes.

Here the influence of Velazquez is clearly seen and Nicholson had a telling
phrase about his idol: "what I particularly learned to appreciate and get on
terms with was the ease with which so distinguished a mind made its statements."
Not that Nicholson was in love only with the old masters. One of the most
perceptive of his critics was the art dealer Lilian Browse who compiled the
catalogue raisonne of his oil paintings in 1956. She wrote "he was - at the end
of his career - beginning to touch upon the contemporary flavour of mid-20th
century painting through an ever growing simplification and an extraction of the
essential nature of things."

His son Ben, whose relationship with his father was, to say the least,
ambivalent, wrote in a letter to Marguerite Steen about his deeply sought
universality: "it is this universality which endures and it is this which makes
him a finer painter than any other British painter of his generation, except
perhaps Sickert.  Augustus John's work lacks this universality and his chart
will fall with time."

The point about universality is itself an ambiguous one. Does it apply to
Nicholson's technique as a painter or to his choice of subject-matter? In my
view it is both, and one can detect certain basic universal ideas which stayed
with him throughout his life and his oeuvre: crowds, shadows and mirrors.

One of his most interesting works, painted in 1914, is Le Retour de la Joconde
(The Return of the Mona Lisa). Leonardo's Mona Lisa was stolen in 1911 from the
Louvre by an Italian who believed it should live in Italy rather than France and
was recovered from his bedroom three years later. It is perhaps typical of
Nicholson's sense of irony that the most famous oil painting in the world (then
as now) is more or less unidentifiable - nestled in a row of eight pictures, it
is dominated by the heavy, gleaming gilt frame of the gigantic Veronese hung
above it. The crowd, in an act of homage to his other hero, Callot (who excelled
at voluminous collections of people that made a typical Lowry seem
under-populated), is much more important than the Renaissance oil paintings it
almost conceals. There is a solitary figure in the foreground, looking intently
at the - unseen by us - paintings on the opposite wall. Sanford Schwarz, in his
biography, identifies this figure as a sly self-portrait of Nicholson and his
engaging theory is certainly supported by what we know of Nicholson's playful
character.

As for shadows and reflections these are surely not opposites, but two
complementary aspects of seeing, and probably refer back to the work of quite
spectacular precocity he executed at 15 with the fake pounds 5 note receipt. If
for him as a boy even a receipt had to be a work of art - and a somewhat
duplicitous one at that - it seems only logical that he should, when looking at
his subject-matter, see both the doubleness and the duplicity of the people and
objects he painted. In one of his finest early woodcuts, the red-faced woman
Coster in all her finery, her dense black shadow, cast to her right, is both a
daring setting-off of her personality as well as her physique and one of the
largest and most dominant images in the picture. In the portrait of Beerbohm,
the shadow of the top hat held in his hand is projected, larger than the
original, against the blank wall rather like one of those early Expressionist
films such as The Cabinet of Dr Caligari.

As for the use of mirrors, this was, as with Sickert, a legacy of the admiration
for Velazquez who used them to virtuoso effect. For Nicholson they were not just
for pretty effects but for both the enhancement and sometimes the enlargement of
an image so as to give the illusion that his, frequently small, paintings were
in fact larger than they were. He particularly liked to use and paint unusual
reflecting surfaces, as in The Convex Mirror and Sheffield Plate where various
objects are placed in front of the gleaming surface of his serving platter which
not only reflects them back but, according to some students of Nicholson, also
contains a reflection of the artist.

For Nicholson, perhaps the ideal subject is a still life, such as Sheffield
Plate, in which he can paint shiny, or glazed but in any event reflective
surfaces. Possibly he found those particular surfaces, with their tricky
highlights, a challenge to his burgeoning technical skill. Paintings such as The
Gold Jug and Silver have both brilliantly executed reflections and an inner glow
such as you can find continually in the still lifes of Chardin (who would, I
suspect, quite admire one of the finest of Nicholson's still life paintings The
Lowestoft Bowl).

Alan Bowness has stated that William Nicholson's work, unlike Ben's paintings,
"lacks toughness and ruthlessness". That's a fair comparison but I suspect that
William, as far as his art was concerned, was in fact ruthless, as all really
good artists in my experience are; in that no matter how rich and/or convoluted
their domestic lives, the drive and energy of their artist's vision is in fact
pursued with absolute, even ruthless, single- mindedness.

Now the Royal Academy is mounting the first posthumous major retrospective of
Nicholson's work. I asked Sanford Schwarz, the most recent biographer of the
artist and co-curator of the RA exhibition why he, an American art historian,
was trying to redress the critical balance in this country. He replied that he
had long been a student of English art. He "liked the terrain" and had been
sufficiently impressed by the RA's Sickert retrospective in the early 1990s to
"set himself off on that period of English art." He also told me that when he
had introduced young American painters and art students to Nicholson's work it
had made a great impact on them. "It's very subtle. It engages you in many ways.
It's very fresh. I get terrific responses when I show them his work."

Perhaps the final irony of the life and work of this warmly ironical man and
artist is to be found in an exchange of letters in 1926 between Nicholson and
Sir Alfred Munnings. Munnings was the President of the Royal Academy and a
competent painter of horses for the hunting, shooting and fishing set. He was
also a singularly unpleasant man who railed publicly against Picasso and once
tried (happily unsuccessfully) to get Stanley Spencer prosecuted for obscenity.

But he was right about Nicholson's quality and reputation enhancing that of the
Academy. So he wrote: "Surely you will be willing to have your name up for the
Election at RA if I tell you that you will go through easily. The more good men
we have with us the better and a straighter body we shall be. Write and say yes
and about a dozen of us will all sign the book. They all want a man like you..."

Nicholson wrote back: "I am really touched that the RA should think of welcoming
me within its dignified walls. The fact is however, that the idea of a label of
any sort scares away from me all desire to paint. I am sorry but so it is, and -
I suspect - always will be."

It's fitting to recall that pride of place in Nicholson's studio was given to an
envelope addressed to him at the Royal Academy. He mounted it on a wall after it
had been forwarded to him. It bore the legend "Unknown". m

William Nicholson': Royal Academy, London W1 (020 7300 8000), Saturday to 23
January 2005. Sanford Schwarz's new biography of Nicholson is published by Yale
University Press

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              47 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

KILROY TOLD TO BACK OFF

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 28 words


Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, yesterday urged Robert Kilroy- Silk to halt his
leadership campaign, warning that a poll would "humiliate" the former TV
presenter.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              48 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 24, 2004

SURRENDER

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER; JASON LEWIS

SECTION: STH2; Pg. 1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 874 words


BRITAIN'S ancient sovereignty over its own borders is to be surrendered by the
Government this week.

Home Secretary David Blunkett will tomorrow fly to Luxembourg to sign away our
national veto on immigration and asylum policies, leading to greater European
control over UK borders.

Next month Prime Minister Tony Blair himself will ratify the capitulation when
he meets European leaders in Brussels and agrees to the controversial proposal
to allow other countries to outvote Britain on this sensitive issue.

The end of the British veto will heighten fears that Mr Blair is abdicating his
responsibilities over border controls and is certain to enrage those who believe
he wants to hand over control of immigration policy to unelected EU bureaucrats.

The issue of giving away Britain's right to control its own borders after 1,000
years of history threatens to become a pivotal General Election matter.

Many Labour supporters are already furious at Mr Blair's failure to stem the
sharp increase in immigration and send illegal asylum seekers home.

The new move comes as EU members debate a 'federalist' blueprint to speed up the
creation of a 'Common European Asylum system'.

This could lead to a central European asylum office to process refugee claims
for the entire EU and a

European border guard patrolling its frontiers. There are also plans for a
common EU consular service issuing visas around the world undermining the
centuries-old responsibilities of our own diplomats.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said yesterday: 'It is the action of a
gullible government.

Once we give up the veto we will see the development of a whole body of European
law which will put inexorable pressure on us to give up any opt-out clauses.

'They chip away piece by piece at our national sovereignty until what we have
left is meaningless.' Sir Andrew Green, chairman of Migrationwatch, said
Britain's interests would be 'subsumed by those of 24 other countries, many of
whom seem content to wave asylum seekers through to the UK'.

He said: 'If the Government is giving up our veto on asylum policy it is making
a very serious mistake.

'Asylum is a problem for all European countries but it takes a very different
form for each.

'Past history is clear Britain is both at the end of the line and widely seen as
a soft touch.

'Other European countries have just been waving asylum seekers through to
Britain. We should know better by now than to hand over our front-door key to
Brussels.

'Future asylum policy will be made in Brussels and enforced in Brussels.'

The blunt message was echoed by the UK Independence Party. UKIP Euro MP Nigel
Farage said: 'One of the questions asked of Peter Mandelson and the other
European Commissioners gave us a clue as to what was going on.

'They were asked, "Given that the EU Constitution has been approved, what parts
of it should we press ahead with now?"

'The plan in Brussels is to implement as much of the constitution as they can
before it has even been ratified. In Britain's case it is not just asylum, it is
also in justice and home affairs, where, basically, we are seeing moves towards
the European codification of criminal law.

'Without the veto, Britain's way of doing things faces being changed to the
European-style system.'

A spokesman for Mr Blunkett confirmed that tomorrow's meeting-would see Britain
agreeing to surrender its veto on asylum issues.

But he insisted this would not pose a threat to national sovereignty because the
UK still has a special 'opt-out' on immigration policy which allows it to ignore
unwelcome 'federalist' schemes pursued by other nations.

'We will support the European proposals for two reasons,' said the spokesman.
'We still have our optout, which means we can pick and choose which measures we
agree with and which are not in Britain's interests.

'And, at the same time, we want to drive reforms of asylum and immigration in
Europe rather than move at the pace of the slowest member.'

The Government spokesman insisted Britain would never sign up to any plans for
an EU-controlled asylum processing centre, border guard or consular services.

But he said Britain wanted to use the new system of majority voting to push
ahead with European co-operation which might improve Britain's security.

The spokesman cited Eurodac, a central EU database containing fingerprints of
asylum seekers, as an example of the sort of projects Mr Blunkett was keen to
encourage.

But Eurosceptics claim that for all the Government's protests that its special
'opt-out' will allow Britain to retain control over its immigration policy, the
reality is the country will come under increasing pressure to agree to a single
EU asylum policy.

Neil O'Brien, of the Vote No Campaign, said: 'There is a general trend to try to
bring in the European constitution by the back door.

'By the time we get to having a constitution referendum they will say, "All
these things have already happened there is nothing to worry about."

'But this is a foolish strategy. If they continue to do this there will be a
backlash. People will point out there is no mandate to do this.' Comment: Page
27

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BRITAIN-BOUND: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CAUGHT IN BELGIUM VOW THEY'LL GET
INTO THE UK AT THEIR NEXT ATTEMPT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              49 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 24, 2004

WARNING TO KILROY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 93 words


THE leader of the UK Independence Party urged Robert Kilroy-Silk to halt his
campaign to unseat him yesterday, warning that a leadership election would
simply "humiliate" him.

Roger Knapman released the results of a poll of Ukip branch chairmen, which show
70 per cent want him to stay as leader, against 13 per cent who would prefer Mr
Kilroy-Silk. Sunday Express columnist Kilroy dismissed the poll of 205 chairmen
as "farcical" and insisted it did not reflect the feeling of the party's 28,000
members. A Kilroy For Leader Campaign has been set up.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              50 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

The 'orange' Kilroy-Silk would be a useless leader for UKIP, says Max Clifford
Party's PR adviser launches attack on leadership bid by describing him as 'a
suntanned showman who lacks credibility'

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 635 words

HELL HATH no fury like a publicist scorned, and last night Robert Kilroy-Silk
was paying the price for crossing swords with the pugnacious Max Clifford.

The invariably suntanned former television chat show host, who faces expulsion
from the UK Independence Party over his refusal to back down from demands to be
made leader, was dismissed as "permanently orange" and "a legend in his own
mind" by Mr Clifford, who had worked alongside him earlier this year to boost
UKIP's image.

Mr Clifford, whose reputation for ending political careers is the stuff of
legend, said that making Mr Kilroy-Silk leader would be the worst thing that
UKIP members could do.

He is the latest figure to attack Mr Kilroy-Silk since the former Labour MP
embarked on a campaign to seize control of the party that not so long ago was
grateful to him for bringing it extra publicity but which is now split over how
to deal with him.

Paul Sykes and Alan Bown, the party's main financial backers, both distanced
themselves from the television presenter after he said he wanted to "kill" the
Tory Party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk landed on the wrong side of Mr Clifford after describing him as a
"self-confessed lying PR man". Mr Clifford told The Sunday Telegraph yesterday:
"Admittedly I don't always get it right: I remember once saying Kilroy-Silk was
talented and interested in other people. Unlike dear Robert, I am neither
permanently orange nor a legend in my own mind.

"With the UK Independence Party I was happy with my PR role in getting their
message across, a message that they gratefully acknowledged played an important
part in their European election success.

"Although I've a lot of time for Nigel Farage and others involved in UKIP, were
Robert Kilroy-Silk to become leader I certainly would not want any more to do
with them.

"However, I do have a suggestion for Robert should his leadership bid fail. With
his colouring and total obsession with his own voice, he would be the perfect
front man for Orange mobile phones."

Mr Clifford, who handled the party's publicity during its successful European
elections campaign in June, added: "Robert Kilroy-Silk is a showman. The worst
thing that could happen to UKIP would be if he becomes leader. He would take all
their credibility away."

The Kilroy-Silk campaign claims that it is only two votes short of the support
it needs to trigger an emergency general meeting and a leadership vote, claiming
the support of as many as 45 local chairmen.

UKIP last night released figures showing that its leader, Roger Knapman, had the
support of 147 chairman, with 29 for Kilroy-Silk and 32 undecided.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP MEP for the South-East, said that the team had contacted
208 of the party's 237 branches. A small number of Kilroy-Silk supporters
"playing silly buggers" were refusing to return calls, he said. For example, he
said, Damian Hockney, the leader of UKIP in the London Assembly, who has accused
Mr Farage of skewing the survey, had been contacted seven times to no avail.

Daniel Moss, the chairman of Ealing UKIP, said: "I think Kilroy-Silk will be far
more effective than the current leader. Most people think he hasn't been in for
long enough. But the problem is he's the only one for the job."

Joan Martin, the secretary of Beaconsfield branch, said: "I have written in
demanding a vote. We are not going to let this go." Jeremy Elms, chairman of
South East London, said: "If it was between Knapman and Kilroy we would chose
Kilroy every time."

However, Mr Kilroy-Silk may well be cut loose by UKIP before a leadership
election. He has been sent a letter from MEPs and donors demanding that he toe
the line.

Mr Kilroy-Silk responded last night: "I have not toed the line, I do not toe the
line, I don't have to toe any line and I am not going to."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              51 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

ME A SEXIST GROPER? JUST TELL THAT TO MY FAT-ARSED WIFE WHO FINES ME ON THE
CREDIT CARD IF I STEP OUT OF LINE;
 UKIP NUT ON HIS NIGHT OUT WITH A WOMEN'S RUGBY CLUB

BYLINE: CAROLE MALONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 40,41

LENGTH: 1595 words

HIGHLIGHT: Frozen out by the sisterhood, but Godfrey Bloom didn't seem ALL bad,
says our Carole; Card sharp...wife Katryna


GODFREY Bloom is in trouble again. Four weeks ago it was because the Euro MP
announced that "no businessman with a brain would employ a woman of child
bearing age".

He then compounded the damage claiming he represented Yorkshire women who all
had their husband's dinner on the table when they came home and that more women
should follow their example because "they didn't clean behind the fridge
enough".

Unsurprisingly, the country's collective sisterhood came down on him like a ton
of bricks. There was a national outpouring of venom that hasn't been seen since
Frank Skinner proclaimed all women over the age of 30 to be dogs. Glenys Kinnock
slated him as a "Neanderthal." And fellow MEPs branded him a "dinosaur".

But far from being repentant the bowler-hatted businessmen says: "I put it that
way because I'm very clever. If I hadn't said what I said in the way that I said
it no one would be talking about the maternity rights that are costing women
jobs. But they are. People said at the time, 'He might be a buffoon in a bowler
hat - but by God he's got a point'."

And he may well be right because stringent legislation IS creating covert
discrimination - and in some cases putting women out work. It is also, according
to his postbag, causing small businesses to think twice about employing women
who are likely to get pregnant.

But it was the bombastic way he put his views across that left half of the
female population wanting to scratch his eyes out - a situation which
intensified last week when the UKIP spokesman was accused of groping a Cambridge
student, one of 20 lady rugby players who'd been invited on a two-day trip to
Brussels to see the European Parliament.

Bloom denies the charges absolutely. "It's an outrage," he says.

"I am absolutely NOT a groper," he booms from the study of his Yorkshire home
which he shares with his wife Katryna and where the walls are plastered with
action-packed photographs of the Cambridge Ladies Rugby Team which he sponsors.
"I'm just not a wandering hands kind of guy. I've been to 25 dinners with these
girls and I think had there been even the merest hint of groping it would have
got round by now. These girls have a radar. They can spot a groper a mile off -
and believe me, they're not the kind of women to let it happen.

"Yes, I give some of them big bear hugs because I've known them for years. I'm a
tactile man. But I'm not a groper. And if I was going to start, believe me I'd
have chosen someone better than that 'thing' in the paper..."

The "thing" Godfrey's referring to is politics student Rebecca Bowtell who'd
been invited on the trip at the last minute after one of the other girls dropped
out.

"She isn't even a member of the team, for God's sake," says Godfrey. "But girls
who were there - have signed depositions to say what this girl's saying is utter
nonsense. They know me for God's sake. They know I like a drink, and by God so
do they - but they know I'd never do anything like this." Bowtell also claims
that as well as groping her Bloom was drunk and made a stream of "sexist and
misogynistic" remarks. She claims he said one woman was "absolutely thick, but
she's got good tits" and of another he'd said "Big tits - very feisty".

So did he say any of those things?

"Very probably," says the man who in the previous breath had described his wife
Katryna as being "very feisty with a big arse". He tells me: "Look it was a very
convivial evening. There was a lot of drink taken. And I was no more or less
convivial than everyone else who was there. But I'm not a bloody monk." I ask
the man who once said he'd "fallen out of more taxi cabs drunk than you can
shake a stick at" if he'd been drunk the night of the supposed harassment.

"The taxi quote is quite true. But no, I was not drunk that night. I don't
remember everything I said and, yes, there might have been a bit of banter, but
I'm not going to apologise for that. We're talking about a girls' rugby team
here. These women take their game very seriously. They play hard during the game
and they play hard after it. In terms of beer they can match me drop for drop
and they give as good as they get. Believe me, none of them was offended by
anything I said. In fact, I've had letters from all of them saying what a
fantastic time they had - including one from this woman Bowtell. This was a
private party at the Belga Queen restaurant in Brussels. It wasn't paid for by
the European Parliament. It was paid for by me - all pounds 1,600 of it.

"If Rebecca Bowtell had taken me to one side and told me my language was
offensive I would have apologised on the spot. I might also privately have
thought, 'This is a rugby club dinner - what did you expect?' But she didn't.
She made a formal complaint. However she didn't mention this so-called
harassment until last Friday- FOUR weeks after the dinner. Now what's that
about? I don't pretend to know what's going on here but I know she's very
left-wing and I think there is a political agenda." The sexual harassment
accusations have hit Bloom hard. He feels they have sullied his memories of
Cambridge's Robinson College "Look at these," he says pointing to framed photos
of beautiful women in floaty evening dresses and handsome young men in DJ's.

"These are some of the dinners I've been to at Cambridge - happy, fun evenings.
I'm just a silly old sponsor, but they have always been charming to me and all
that's been spoiled now." As pompous as he can be, the thing about Godfrey Bloom
is that one suspects his heart's in the right place. He has a habit of putting
his foot in it, but he likes a good laugh which is how he sometimes ends up in
trouble. "Yes, I know I'm probably my own worst enemy. But I'm the sort of bloke
when if someone says, 'Can I come to your party?' I say, 'Yes, come one, come
all'. These accusations have caused a great deal of upset, not least to my wife
Katryna who was at that dinner. She was sitting a few feet away from me and it
would have been a fool who groped young women in front of his wife."

Katryna Bloom is nowhere to be seen at their house in the tiny Yorkshire
village. She's an equine physiotherapist and an intensely private person who
loves her horses and her husband (probably in that order says Godfrey) and she's
distressed that twice in two months the national press have turned up on the
doorstep. "When all hell broke loose over my comments about maternity rights she
was incandescent with rage. Not because I'd said them, but because I was in
Strasbourg and the Press were camping on our doorstep in Yorkshire and she had
to handle it all on her own. Of course I tried to phone her, but I couldn't get
through. And she couldn't get me on the mobile because everyone was calling me.
I got a monumental bollocking the next day because she said I didn't try hard
enough to get through."

You get the impression Mrs Bloom often has good reason for doling out monumental
bollockings to her husband.

"Katryna is always 100 per cent supportive of me in everything I do, but that's
not to say I don't get a private smack around the head every now and then," he
says. "It's never about politics, it's always about things I haven't done at
home. We don't actually fight, she just 'fines' me for bad behaviour."

I ask him to explain. "There are no arguments, no vitriol, and no silent
treatment. She'll just say, 'Right, your behaviour yesterday was disgraceful so
I'm taking X amount off your credit card'. She then goes and buys herself
something - usually horsey. Last time it was a side-saddle. I don't think I
follow the rules. The rules are that she never expects to put fuel in her car.
She expects a new car every two years. She'd get a nosebleed if she ever had to
turn right on an aeroplane. But if ever I tried to do the washing up or make the
bed she'd have apoplexy. She deals with internal domestic affairs. I deal with
external affairs - the lawn, the oil tank etc."

As we talk, Bloom's 21-year-old secretary Emma Brader has been listening. She
was at the dinner where the supposed harassment took place. "It's so unfair,"
she says. "Godfrey's a great bloke. It was a fantastic evening. Yes, there was
banter, but considering this girl Rebecca is a rugby player you'd think she
might be a bit more broad-minded. I can't think of a time when he's ever said
anything inappropriate to me, but if he did I'd take it with a pinch of salt. I
don't believe for a second he'd grope anyone." I ask Emma if, when she was
interviewed for her job, Godfrey asked her whether she was likely to get
pregnant. She laughs. "Someone else asked him that and he said, 'I wouldn't be
so impertinent. She's not even married'."

It would be easy to write Godfrey Bloom off as some rich, loud, Hooray Henry.
The truth is he's passionate - both about his beliefs that we should get out of
Europe and that women ARE being discriminated against by maternity legislation.
He loves his wife, his beer and adores a good laugh. "Everyone who was there
that night - especially my wife - knows this isn't true. That woman Bowtell is
poison, and I know she wants it all to go away now. But too many people have
been hurt. And I won't have that."

Rebecca Bowtell said yesterday: "I'm glad I started it, you never regret telling
the truth. But there have been times where the amount of abuse I've had from him
has made me feel like giving up. I'm certainly pursuing my original complaint.
If you don't speak up against sexism it will never go away."

c.malone@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              52 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

ME A SEXIST GROPER? JUST TELL THAT TO MY FAT-ARSED WIFE WHO FINES ME ON THE
CREDIT CARD IF I STEP OUT OF LINE;
 UKIP NUT ON HIS NIGHT OUT WITH A WOMEN'S RUGBY CLUB

BYLINE: CAROLE MALONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 40,41

LENGTH: 1595 words

HIGHLIGHT: Frozen out by the sisterhood, but Godfrey Bloom didn't seem ALL bad,
says our Carole; Card sharp...wife Katryna


GODFREY Bloom is in trouble again. Four weeks ago it was because the Euro MP
announced that "no businessman with a brain would employ a woman of child
bearing age".

He then compounded the damage claiming he represented Yorkshire women who all
had their husband's dinner on the table when they came home and that more women
should follow their example because "they didn't clean behind the fridge
enough".

Unsurprisingly, the country's collective sisterhood came down on him like a ton
of bricks. There was a national outpouring of venom that hasn't been seen since
Frank Skinner proclaimed all women over the age of 30 to be dogs. Glenys Kinnock
slated him as a "Neanderthal." And fellow MEPs branded him a "dinosaur".

But far from being repentant the bowler-hatted businessmen says: "I put it that
way because I'm very clever. If I hadn't said what I said in the way that I said
it no one would be talking about the maternity rights that are costing women
jobs. But they are. People said at the time, 'He might be a buffoon in a bowler
hat - but by God he's got a point'."

And he may well be right because stringent legislation IS creating covert
discrimination - and in some cases putting women out work. It is also, according
to his postbag, causing small businesses to think twice about employing women
who are likely to get pregnant.

But it was the bombastic way he put his views across that left half of the
female population wanting to scratch his eyes out - a situation which
intensified last week when the UKIP spokesman was accused of groping a Cambridge
student, one of 20 lady rugby players who'd been invited on a two-day trip to
Brussels to see the European Parliament.

Bloom denies the charges absolutely. "It's an outrage," he says.

"I am absolutely NOT a groper," he booms from the study of his Yorkshire home
which he shares with his wife Katryna and where the walls are plastered with
action-packed photographs of the Cambridge Ladies Rugby Team which he sponsors.
"I'm just not a wandering hands kind of guy. I've been to 25 dinners with these
girls and I think had there been even the merest hint of groping it would have
got round by now. These girls have a radar. They can spot a groper a mile off -
and believe me, they're not the kind of women to let it happen.

"Yes, I give some of them big bear hugs because I've known them for years. I'm a
tactile man. But I'm not a groper. And if I was going to start, believe me I'd
have chosen someone better than that 'thing' in the paper..."

The "thing" Godfrey's referring to is politics student Rebecca Bowtell who'd
been invited on the trip at the last minute after one of the other girls dropped
out.

"She isn't even a member of the team, for God's sake," says Godfrey. "But girls
who were there - have signed depositions to say what this girl's saying is utter
nonsense. They know me for God's sake. They know I like a drink, and by God so
do they - but they know I'd never do anything like this." Bowtell also claims
that as well as groping her Bloom was drunk and made a stream of "sexist and
misogynistic" remarks. She claims he said one woman was "absolutely thick, but
she's got good tits" and of another he'd said "Big tits - very feisty".

So did he say any of those things?

"Very probably," says the man who in the previous breath had described his wife
Katryna as being "very feisty with a big arse". He tells me: "Look it was a very
convivial evening. There was a lot of drink taken. And I was no more or less
convivial than everyone else who was there. But I'm not a bloody monk." I ask
the man who once said he'd "fallen out of more taxi cabs drunk than you can
shake a stick at" if he'd been drunk the night of the supposed harassment.

"The taxi quote is quite true. But no, I was not drunk that night. I don't
remember everything I said and, yes, there might have been a bit of banter, but
I'm not going to apologise for that. We're talking about a girls' rugby team
here. These women take their game very seriously. They play hard during the game
and they play hard after it. In terms of beer they can match me drop for drop
and they give as good as they get. Believe me, none of them was offended by
anything I said. In fact, I've had letters from all of them saying what a
fantastic time they had - including one from this woman Bowtell. This was a
private party at the Belga Queen restaurant in Brussels. It wasn't paid for by
the European Parliament. It was paid for by me - all pounds 1,600 of it.

"If Rebecca Bowtell had taken me to one side and told me my language was
offensive I would have apologised on the spot. I might also privately have
thought, 'This is a rugby club dinner - what did you expect?' But she didn't.
She made a formal complaint. However she didn't mention this so-called
harassment until last Friday- FOUR weeks after the dinner. Now what's that
about? I don't pretend to know what's going on here but I know she's very
left-wing and I think there is a political agenda." The sexual harassment
accusations have hit Bloom hard. He feels they have sullied his memories of
Cambridge's Robinson College "Look at these," he says pointing to framed photos
of beautiful women in floaty evening dresses and handsome young men in DJ's.

"These are some of the dinners I've been to at Cambridge - happy, fun evenings.
I'm just a silly old sponsor, but they have always been charming to me and all
that's been spoiled now." As pompous as he can be, the thing about Godfrey Bloom
is that one suspects his heart's in the right place. He has a habit of putting
his foot in it, but he likes a good laugh which is how he sometimes ends up in
trouble. "Yes, I know I'm probably my own worst enemy. But I'm the sort of bloke
when if someone says, 'Can I come to your party?' I say, 'Yes, come one, come
all'. These accusations have caused a great deal of upset, not least to my wife
Katryna who was at that dinner. She was sitting a few feet away from me and it
would have been a fool who groped young women in front of his wife."

Katryna Bloom is nowhere to be seen at their house in the tiny Yorkshire
village. She's an equine physiotherapist and an intensely private person who
loves her horses and her husband (probably in that order says Godfrey) and she's
distressed that twice in two months the national press have turned up on the
doorstep. "When all hell broke loose over my comments about maternity rights she
was incandescent with rage. Not because I'd said them, but because I was in
Strasbourg and the Press were camping on our doorstep in Yorkshire and she had
to handle it all on her own. Of course I tried to phone her, but I couldn't get
through. And she couldn't get me on the mobile because everyone was calling me.
I got a monumental bollocking the next day because she said I didn't try hard
enough to get through."

You get the impression Mrs Bloom often has good reason for doling out monumental
bollockings to her husband.

"Katryna is always 100 per cent supportive of me in everything I do, but that's
not to say I don't get a private smack around the head every now and then," he
says. "It's never about politics, it's always about things I haven't done at
home. We don't actually fight, she just 'fines' me for bad behaviour."

I ask him to explain. "There are no arguments, no vitriol, and no silent
treatment. She'll just say, 'Right, your behaviour yesterday was disgraceful so
I'm taking X amount off your credit card'. She then goes and buys herself
something - usually horsey. Last time it was a side-saddle. I don't think I
follow the rules. The rules are that she never expects to put fuel in her car.
She expects a new car every two years. She'd get a nosebleed if she ever had to
turn right on an aeroplane. But if ever I tried to do the washing up or make the
bed she'd have apoplexy. She deals with internal domestic affairs. I deal with
external affairs - the lawn, the oil tank etc."

As we talk, Bloom's 21-year-old secretary Emma Brader has been listening. She
was at the dinner where the supposed harassment took place. "It's so unfair,"
she says. "Godfrey's a great bloke. It was a fantastic evening. Yes, there was
banter, but considering this girl Rebecca is a rugby player you'd think she
might be a bit more broad-minded. I can't think of a time when he's ever said
anything inappropriate to me, but if he did I'd take it with a pinch of salt. I
don't believe for a second he'd grope anyone." I ask Emma if, when she was
interviewed for her job, Godfrey asked her whether she was likely to get
pregnant. She laughs. "Someone else asked him that and he said, 'I wouldn't be
so impertinent. She's not even married'."

It would be easy to write Godfrey Bloom off as some rich, loud, Hooray Henry.
The truth is he's passionate - both about his beliefs that we should get out of
Europe and that women ARE being discriminated against by maternity legislation.
He loves his wife, his beer and adores a good laugh. "Everyone who was there
that night - especially my wife - knows this isn't true. That woman Bowtell is
poison, and I know she wants it all to go away now. But too many people have
been hurt. And I won't have that."

Rebecca Bowtell said yesterday: "I'm glad I started it, you never regret telling
the truth. But there have been times where the amount of abuse I've had from him
has made me feel like giving up. I'm certainly pursuing my original complaint.
If you don't speak up against sexism it will never go away."

c.malone@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              53 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 23, 2004

Defiance of Kilroy as UKIP plans to eject him

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 384 words


SENIOR figures in the UK Independence Party were last night planning to throw
out Robert Kilroy-Silk after he suggested he might leave to set up his own
party.

They reacted angrily after he refused to abandon his battle for the leadership
of the party.

In an interview to be broadcast tomorrow, the former television presenter
suggests that if the current leader Roger Knapman does not stand aside to allow
him to take over, he might find a different vehicle for a 'new style of
politics'.

'I thought UKIP was that convenient vehicle,' he said.

'Let's hope it is. It may still well be. But the members have to make up their
mind.'

Asked if he had considered leading a different type of party, he said: 'Of
course I think about those things, and many other people clearly do too, because
they've written to me and emailed and all the rest.'

The 61-year-old joined UKIP in April and was elected as an MEP for the East
Midlands in June.

Since then he has missed no opportunity to establish himself as UKIP's most
high-profile figure.

But a senior party source said last night: 'This is way beyond the pale.

'I would be very surprised if we didn't now kick him out.' MEP Nigel Farage, a
leading member of the party, said: 'Let's hope he has more success with his new
party than he has had in the last couple of weeks in this party.'

Party rules mean leaders are elected for a four-year term, so an election cannot
take place for another two years unless Mr Knapman chooses to stand down.

In his interview with GMTV's Sunday programme, Mr Kilroy-Silk calls on party
members to force an extraordinary general meeting and full-blown leadership
contest.

He says he is at 'stalemate' with Mr Knapman and dismisses a poll of UKIP branch
chairmen which gave Mr Knapman a five-to- one advantage over Mr Kilroy-Silk as
'farcical', claiming his supporters were deliberately left out of the poll.

Although given an ultimatum to end his leadership challenge, Mr Kilroy-Silk said
yesterday that he had no plans to 'toe the line'.

He accused the party leadership of 'old-style bar room politics deceit and
spin'.

'I have not toed the line, I do not toe the line, I don't have to toe any line
and I am not going to,' he said.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CHALLENGE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              54 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 23, 2004, Saturday

Kilroy-Silk set to be expelled from UKIP

BYLINE: By George Jones and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 141 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk was facing expulsion last night from the UK Independence
Party after hinting that he might attempt to set up a "new" party if he is
blocked from standing as UKIP leader.

Nigel Farage, UKIP's leading Euro-MP, condemned Mr Kilroy-Silk as now
"absolutely beyond the pale" and confirmed he would move next week for the
former chat show host to be ejected from the party's Euro-MP group.

"I am absolutely finished with him," Mr Farage told The Daily Telegraph.

In an interview to be screened on GMTV's Sunday Programme tomorrow, Mr
Kilroy-Silk said disillusioned voters wanted a "new voice and a new style of
politics". He said he had thought UKIP could be the party to deliver it.

And yesterday, he made clear that he had no intention of "toeing the line",
accusing the party leadership of "old-style bar-room politics."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              55 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 23, 2004

Greens seek seats without sellout

BYLINE: Matthew Tempest and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 610 words


Greens challenged Tony Blair to resign or face impeachment yesterday when their
conference debated how best to maximise next year's election opportunities
without compromising their core beliefs.

They adopted their "toughest" crime policy, to further restrict the sale of
imitation guns and to encourage community policing.

But they differed sharply on Europe, most activists showing hostility to the
proposed EU constitution, despite the argument of yes campaigners that a
powerful Europe could "challenge the US and the corporations".

Caroline Lucas MEP, the party's leader in the London assembly, urged Mr Blair to
quit and said other parties were "indistinguishable on war, privatisation and
globalisation". She backed the no vote on the constitution, "which entrenches
the worst part of the EU".

The Greens took just over 1m votes in the Euro elections on June 10, winning
fifth place with 6.25% of the votes, well behind the Liberal Democrats on 14.9%
and Ukip on 16.7%.

But Green veterans meeting in Weston-super-Mare in Somerset this weekend are
acutely aware that when they won 15% in the 1989 Euro elections, there followed
divisions between "fundamentalists" and "realists" (fundies and realos) which
weakened the momentum they had generated.

They are also conscious of the troubles in Ukip caused by Robert Kilroy-Silk
MEP. From plenaries, fringes and bars the Greens look on with schadenfreude at
Ukip's turmoil, reminiscent of the internecine warfare that led to the departure
of their own stars Jonathon Porritt and Sara Parkin after 1989.

Yesterday was the first time for 10 years that the Greens have met without Mike
Woodin as its principal speaker (the party eschews formal leaders) and
intellectual powerhouse. The Balliol academic died of cancer this year, aged 38;
Greens were relieved on Thursday night to hear that his Oxford council seat had
been held by Sushila Dhall, albeit by only 28 votes.

David Taylor, whose expected capture of the south-west Euro seat was foiled by
Ukip's surge, argued that the goal must be to "green the general election". He
said: "Last election we saved 10 deposits. This time I think we will double or
triple that to 20, 30 or even 40."

Privately, Green strategists hope Dr Woodin's replacement as "principal male
speaker", Keith Taylor, can build on his 10% share of the vote in the Brighton
Pavilion constituency in 2001 to replace the Labour member David Lepper in that
enclave of radical, green and gay votes.

"We are the agenda setters. If people want to know where politics will be in 20
years time, you hear it at the Green party conference - especially if you hit
the fringe!" Mr Taylor said yesterday in a conference hall advertising a
farmers' market with the slogan: Local food for local people.

"Thirty years ago we were ridiculed as the 'muck and magic brigade' for
advocating organic foods," he said.

Making his debut speech as the new face of the party, he promised to "provide a
voice to the disillusioned" - peace activists, the unions, environmentalists,
students, senior citizens, and animal rights' activists - at the election.

"We are a small party with big ideas," he said. Tackling head-on the reluctance
to vote for a fringe party, he added: "A real wasted vote is a vote for
something people don't believe in."

Emergency resolutions yesterday rejected the redeployment of UK troops to US
positions in Iraq and supported the new Green member Peter Tatchell's campaign
against "hate music", principally homophobia in rap. Mr Tatchell gave a keynote
speech calling for PR voting for Westminster.

guardian.co.uk/politics/green


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 23, 2004, Saturday

Kilroy-Silk ponders breakaway UKIP

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 200 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK hinted yesterday that if he cannot take over the UK
Independence Party he will break away and form his own.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that his battle to oust the leader of the anti-European
Union party, Roger Knapman, was at a "stalemate".

He was asked whether he would consider leading an alternative party if he made
no progress in UKIP and he said he had considered it.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, in an interview with GMTV to be broadcast tomorrow, said: "We
think the unthinkable, we think the stupid, because often what you think is
stupid and impossible actually you think 'hang on, this might be quite a good
idea'."

At other points Mr Kilroy-Silk seemed to be thinking in the past tense about the
party he joined earlier this year.

"People are looking for something fresh, new, and I think we could have been
that party," he said. "I think the moment is slipping away.

"People want a new style of politics. I thought UKIP was that convenient
vehicle."

Yesterday he repeated his accusation that the leadership "want to stitch up
deals with the Conservatives, or with the backers who've walked away and they're
trying to get back. I think that's wrong."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 23, 2004, Saturday

UKIP leadership

SECTION: Features; 31

LENGTH: 101 words


From Miss Catherine Cracknell

Sir, I was surprised to read that a survey of all branch chairmen of UKIP showed
that 75 per cent did not want a change of leader (report, October 20). Of all
chairmen that I have spoken to, only one had been contacted.

Recently the UKIP website stated something similar but later had to retract
because of the overwhelming numbers of members who not only had not been
contacted, but knew of no one who had.

Yours faithfully, CATHERINE CRACKNELL (Chairman, Falmouth & Camborne UKIP), 5
Little Gregwartha, Four Lanes, Redruth TR16 6LN.

October 20.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 22, 2004, Friday

Defiant Barroso faces revolt by Euro-parliament

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 15

LENGTH: 557 words

JOSE Manuel Barroso, the incoming president of the European Commission, faces a
spectacular showdown with Euro-MPs after defiantly resisting demands to
reshuffle his team.

Labelling his critics "extremists", Mr Barroso angered socialist and liberal
MEPs yesterday by offering no more than cosmetic changes to his 25-strong
college of commissioners,

The defiant stand has increased the chance of an unprecedented veto of the
entire commission when MEPs meet in Strasbourg next week, taking the European
Union into the uncharted waters of fully fledged constitutional crisis.

Martin Schulz, a German MEP and leader of the 200-strong socialist group, said
Mr Barroso had seriously misread the mood of the parliament and risked a
calamitous defeat that could cripple his five-year tenure.

"The vast majority of my group will act as a bloc and the vote is going to be
No", he said. He accused Mr Barroso of offering "absolutely nothing" to resolve
the crisis and even retracting earlier concessions. Mr Barroso, who clearly
regards EU leaders in the national capitals rather than Euro-MPs as his real
masters, stood squarely behind Rocco Buttiglione, the gaffe-prone Italian
nominee for the post of justice commissioner.

The Italian was given the thumbs down by the parliament's civil liberties
committee last week for his ultra-Catholic views on marriage, women and
homosexual, and apparent support for asylum seekers' camps in Africa.

Yesterday he issued an apologetic letter offering "deep regret" for any offence
caused by describing homosexuality as a "sin".

Mr Buttiglione, a philosophy professor and acolyte of the Pope, said his error
was to allow strictly religious concepts to leak into political discourse.

"Words so emotionally charged as sin should perhaps not be introduced into the
political debate. I did not intend in any way to offend the feelings of anybody
and, in particular, of women and homosexuals," he said.

The letter was in sharp contrast to his fulminating interviews in the Italian
media over the past week accusing Left-wing Euro-MPs of a "hate campaign" and of
a secular "Inquisition".

Gary Titley, MEP, the Labour leader, said an apology might have been enough a
week ago, but Mr Buttiglione had since disqualified himself by stating
flippantly that it did not matter what Euro-MPs thought because they could not
pick him off individually. "It wound a lot of people up the wrong way," Mr
Titley said.

Mr Barroso, a former Portuguese prime minister, has hardly put a foot wrong
since being chosen by fellow EU leaders last June, but EU veterans said
yesterday he seemed to have "lost the plot".

His sole offer was to spread part of the civil liberties portfolio across five
commissioners, prompting one Italian MP to scoff: "What do we need four of them
for: to put one in charge of the heteros, one for the lesbians, one for the
homosexuals and one for the transexuals?"

Mr Barroso said only "extremists" would oppose his team when it came to a full
vote next week.

The 88-strong liberal group, which holds the balance of power and has supported
the Barroso team until now, demanded that Mr Buttiglione be stripped of his post
or even be sent back to Rome. If liberals, socialists, Greens, communists and
Eurosceptics such as Ukip join forces, they easily command a majority of the 732
MEPs.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              59 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 22, 2004, Friday

GREEN PARTY HAS THE POLICIES TO REACH DISENCHANTED VOTERS'

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Keith Taylor: Mr Blair fails to
act on global warming

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 663 words


THE GREEN Party is on the verge of a political breakthrough, reaching out to
millions of people "disillusioned and disenchanted" with conventional politics
and horrified about the threat of climate change, its new leader told its annual
conference yesterday.

Keith Taylor said the party could provide the voice for a coalition of peace
activists, trade unionists, animal rights activists, environmentalists, older
people and students. He hailed what he called the truly remarkable achievement
of the Greens picking up more than one million votes in the European elections
in June, adding: "We have the policies which millions more people want."

Mr Taylor, one of the Greens' two principal speakers, insisted it was not a
pressure group, but a fully-fledged political party that had elected
representatives in the European Parliament, the Scottish Parliament, the Greater
London Assembly and council chambers.

He told the conference, which opened yesterday in Weston-super-Mare: "People are
increasingly disillusioned and disenchanted with politics. That's why we have
falling turn-outs; that's why younger people are more interested in voting on
Big Brother than in elections."

He said the challenge for activists was to convince sceptical electors they
could make a difference by supporting the Greens. "A real wasted vote is a vote
for something people don't believe in," he said.

Mr Taylor, a Brighton councillor, lashed out at Tony Blair for paying the "blood
price of invasion of Iraq, an invasion we now know was justified by a lie, and
thousands have paid the blood price".

He also complained that the Prime Minister "dons his wellies and talks the talk"
on the environment and global warming, but that his words were undermined by the
Government's history of broken promises.

Mr Taylor concluded: "People are horrified by the threat of climate change and
the lack of political action on it. We must leave here telling people to vote
Green because their children will thank them for it."

The party passed an emergency motion condemning the Government for its failure
to act on climate change and demanding a cut of at least 90 per cent in carbon
dioxide emissions by 2050 at the latest. It called for an end to the national
road-building programme and tax breaks to the aviation industry, as well as a
zero waste policy to be enshrined in law.

Another motion demanded the withdrawal of British troops from Iraq and condemned
planned movements of soldiers to back up American forces as "immoral, illegal
and counter-productive".

Delegates also denounced the construction of a toll road alongside the M6 and
passed a vote of support for Peter Tatchell, the gay rights activist and new
member of the Green Party, who has faced death threats over his campaign against
homophobic "murder music".

In this year's local elections, the party picked up 10 per cent of the vote in
seats it contested. The party won 10 more seats, boosting its total number of
councillors in England to 61, but saw its support fall in London.

The Greens won councillors in Norwich, Sheffield and Watford and helped oust
Labour from Oxford City Council. It believes its strongest support is in
Brighton, where it thinks it has its best chance of winning a seat at
Westminster.

In the European elections, the Greens held on to their two MEPs - Jean Lambert
in London and Caroline Lucas in the South-east - with 6.25 per cent of the
national vote. It failed, however, to make predicted gains, partly because of
the rise of United Kingdom Independence Party.

Mr Tatchell will today demand a "second Chartist movement" to remedy "the
democratic deficit". He will say: "It is time to end the corruption of the
first-past-the-post voting system, whereby Labour won a majority of 167 MPs at
the last general election, despite securing only 42 per cent of the votes cast
and winning the backing of only 24 per cent of eligible electors."

Podium, page 29

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              60 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 22, 2004, Friday

THESE ACTS OF STATE-SPONSORED PIRACY;
 THE TRUE ATTITUDE TO MAINTAINING REVENUE ON FAGS AND BOOZE IS PLAIN:

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1202 words


In dealings with uniformed officials at national points of entry and exit, the
lure of facetiousness is always worth resisting. Anyone who ever had a few on a
747 into New York, and answered the old US immigration form question about
whether the intention of the visit was to overthrow the American government by
writing: "sole purpose of trip", will know this.

I know it myself. As a smart alecky pubescent, I enjoyed a lively exchange with
El Al security at Heathrow. "Do you have any connection with the Arab world?"
was the gist of the enquiry. "None at all," was the verbatim reply, "unless you
count the fact that Yasser Arafat is my brother-in- law". The ensuing half hour
is one I don't expect to forget. However, with questions of international
terrorism, it is easy to sympathise with an aggressive overreaction to this kind
of flippancy.

When the issue concerns a small consignment of foreign-brewed lager, it becomes
less so. This week, on the day the European Commission finally began legal
action against this country to prevent abuses of power against "booze cruisers",
a friend of mine told me about a friend of his who was stopped by UK Customs on
the French side of the Channel Tunnel. In the back of his car - I say "his car",
but as we'll see that is questionable - were 45 cases of Stella Artois, along
with a less than grotesque amount of rolling tobacco.

According to EU law, there is nothing remotely dodgy about taking such amounts
across any of its borders, but the ever charming boys and girls at HM Customs &
Excise, working for the Treasury, take a different view. So this chap was taken
to an office, where he was told that the penalty for "smuggling" is a fine or a
maximum sentence of seven year's in jug. "In that case," he said, "I'll do the
seven years."

Whether it was the jokey response that got them going is unclear. It might well
have been the incident that followed. After being stuck in this lavatory-free
office for ages while they checked the records - records which revealed that
long ago he did a stretch for cannabis importation - the man became desperate,
and nipped outside for a pee. Not long after he was spotted voiding his bladder
in the open air, Customs seized not only the Stella and the Golden Virginia but
the car itself.

Four months later, they still have it, and have every right to sell it off and
keep the dosh if they choose.

Given the "friend of a friend" tone to this anecdote, not to mention its
inherent absurdity, it must carry the pungent aroma of urban myth. Is it really
credible, you may be asking, that a car worth thousands could be seized, without
any trial, over a maximum saving of a few hundred quid? As confirmed by the
exchange of letters before me, between the man and his daughter on the one side
and, on the other, S Gray, Operation Manager, Detection South, No 1 Control
Building, Dover (HM Customs and Excise, Law Enforcement), it most certainly is.

Replying on 3 August 2004 to a letter sent on 26 June - and it gives a flavour
of the autonomous arrogance for which our customs officials are so well loved
that it went unanswered for six weeks - Mr Gray dwells upon the urination. He
refutes claims that the complainant mentioned a prostate problem until caught
taking the leak, and that he had previously asked for the loo. "If you had, the
facilities would have been made available to you. The officers, male and female,
who witnessed this act," Mr Gray goes on, "found your behaviour offensive and
disgusting."

Perhaps they did. It's quite possible that the males have never stood in a
urinal, and that the females are getting professional help for post- traumatic
stress caused by the sight of a man relieving himself against a garage wall.
However, although we might wonder whether people who have led such sheltered
lives are suited to a career that brings them into contact with hardened
"smugglers" and even more dangerous criminals, their sensibilities are not the
issue.

With Guantanamo inmates awaiting secret trials at US military courts, it feels
melodramatic to describe such a case as an abuse of human rights. So let us
merely agree that it is, at the very least, a flagrant breach of natural
justice. In a case brought two years ago on similar facts, the High Court held
that Customs was wrongly reversing the burden of proof. More mature readers may
remember all that pre-Blunkett, lefty liberal nonsense about "innocent until
proven guilty". Requiring someone to prove that anything over the Treasury's
declared limits - 110 litres of beer, 90 of wine, ten of spirits, and 3,200
cigarettes - is for private consumption evidently offends against that.

Possibly even older than the presumption of innocence is the desire of rulers to
levy duty on alcohol. In 1763, to fund a permanent army in America, the
government of John Stuart, the Earl of Bute, created a cider tax that didn't go
down brilliantly in the scrumpy-loving West Country. People burnt effigies of
the Prime Minister, Bute, and rioted. That same year he was driven from office
and the tax repealed. So well did the government learn the lesson of that fiasco
that, just two years later, the government introduced the Stamp Tax in America
that did so much to kickstart the War of Independence.

These days, while the Treasury's avarice remains as rampant as ever it was, it
usually attempts to disguise it. The "liberalisation" of the gaming laws is a
transparently cynical attempt to cloak a regressive, working- class tax in the
garments of recreational merriment.

However, when it comes to fighting to maintain the revenue from fags and booze,
it can barely be bothered with any pretence. Admittedly, whenever the EU bares
its fists on the matter, the Government sends some obscure junior minister to
deliver some specious gibberish, unworthy of UKIP, about resisting wicked EU
attempts to harmonise taxes. But the true attitude is plain: we want the money,
sod the law - and if it requires vindictive thugs imbued with the powers of a
police force in one of the less enchanting African dictatorships to prevent UK
subjects exercising their right to pay less for their vices, so be it.

Some of these people must be villains, most are White Van Folk anyway, and if
the odd middle-class house- wife from Sevenoaks loses her 4x4 for a while, we'll
just have to put up with the odd tirade from the Daily Mail about that.

Now that Brussels has finally launched its action, raising the prospect of a
scrap between EU trade commissioner elect Peter Mandelson and his old chum the
Chancellor, Gordon Brown, it is hinted that the seizing of cars over a couple of
cases of Famous Grouse and a few dozen cartons of Silk Cut for a family wedding
will cease.

Believe that or not, such a climb down would be too little much too late. What
decency requires isn't a vague and grudging hint from unnamed sources that the
Treasury will start to behave itself.

It is the sight of the Chancellor on his knees, or better still in the stocks,
apologising for giving the finger to the law of the land and of the Continent,
and begging forgiveness for having sanctioned these acts of state-sponsored
piracy.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              61 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2004, Friday

PAUL ROUTLEDGE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 95 words


IT'S Robert Kilroy-SULK! The permatan off the telly is threatening to walk away
from the UK Independence Party if it doesn't make him leader. Can you believe
his arrogance? He should have stayed in the Labour party, where he would be
perfectly at home with the Blairites. But Roger Knapman, the canny ex-Tory MP in
the UKIP driving seat, has outmanoeuvred Kilroy-Silk in a snap ballot of
constituency chairmen. "I don't want to be leader of a pressure group!" bleats
the smarmy Sulk. There, there, dear boy. Take your problems to a chat show for
inadequates.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              62 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 21, 2004

UKIP split on Kilroy-Silk

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 70 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk's future in the UK Independence Party was in the balance last
night after he was told to 'put up or shut up'.

Senior party figures have been angered by his attempts to oust UKIP leader Roger
Knapman.

Yesterday a poll of branch chairmen showed that Mr Knapman had overwhelming
support.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk, MEP for the East Midlands, called for UKIP's 28,000 members
to be polled.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              63 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 21, 2004

ephraim hardcastle

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 463 words


TORY leader Michael Howard's appointment of Lynton Crosby as campaign director
for the General Election is considered a shrewd move. Mr Crosby, 48, helped
Australian Prime Minister John Howard win four straight election victories. A
straighttalking Aussie, Crosby was once approached by Iain Duncan Smith's staff.

He told them, 'John Howard was as dull as bats**t so, your man can win.'

IDS was ousted before the experiment could take place. A Tory source says,
'Crosby doesn't think charisma is necessary. John Howard is short, old, bald and
bespectacled.

Michael Howard doesn't have all of those disadvantages.'

JUDE Law, pictured, says the American press has been 'an absolute joy', making
him feel 'easy, friendly and comfortable'.

Whereas, 'in England, they're rougher, they can give it to you right in the
back.' Enoch Powell said politicians moaning about the press were like, 'a
ship's captain complaining about the sea'. Isn't it the same for actors?

UNFORGETTABLY suave as the PG Wodehouse butler, Jeeves, the late Dennis Price's
private life bore little relation to his stage and screen presence.

Actor John Fraser (a friend) says in his memoirs that Mr Price, pictured, who
died in 1973, lived with a squeaky-voiced 'diesel dyke' and former snake charmer
for whom he purchased, at great expense, a 'clitoris enhancement' i.e. a male
organ.

The man/woman's main job, says Mr Fraser, was to carry Mr Price's crates of
Guinness. 'About a crate of Guinness a day was his consumption, starting at
breakfast.' By Jove!

UKIP leader Roger Knapman has an ingenious solution to the problem of Robert
Kilroy-Silk trying to snatch his job. He tells friends, 'I must contact Michael
Howard. We'll swop Robert Kilroy-Silk for Boris Johnson.'

CURIOUSLY the name of 'naked chef' Jamie Oliver isn't mentioned in the news
coverage about reviving Sainsbury's. Chief executive Justin King's new slogan is
'making Sainsbury's great again', with a new emphasis on quality. Since it
hasn't been great for a decade, is it possible Jamie's a problem rather than a
solution?

The impish chef suggests informality rather than quality. He has made 65
advertisements for the supermarket company over the past four years. It was said
campaigns in which he featured generated Pounds 1.12billion in turnover, and
Pounds 200million in profits. Might that turn out to have been an exaggeration?

POET Laureate Andrew Motion was visibly delighted when Alan Hollinghurst won the
Booker Prize for his sexuallyexplicit (and how!) gay novel, The Line of Beauty.
They perched together at the dinner. The pair were very close 25 years ago.
Asked once if they'd had an affair, Mr Motion said, 'Everybody thinks we did,
but we didn't. But, you know, I loved him.'

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              64 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk faces moves to force him out of UKIP

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 299 words

FORMAL moves to force Robert Kilroy-Silk to quit the UK Independence Party could
begin next week after Roger Knapman, the party leader, accused him of seeking to
become "a martyr".

Party sources indicated that unless the former chat show host stopped trying to
supplant Mr Knapman, they would begin by suspending or expelling him from UKIP's
group of Euro-MPs.

Mr Knapman said last night: "It looks as though he is determined to be a
martyr."

He said party members had been stung by the "insulting" tone of a radio
interview given by Mr Kilroy-Silk yesterday in which he described Mr Knapman as
an "invisible" leader.

The disciplinary move would still leave Mr Kilroy-Silk a Euro-MP for the East
Midlands and an ordinary member of the wider party.

But action at the European Parliament in Strasbourg would probably be followed
by calls for Mr Kilroy-Silk, one of UKIP's 12 Euro-MPs, to resign his seat.

"He was elected as a UKIP Euro-MP, not as Robert Kilroy-Silk," a party official
said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk received a final letter from colleagues yesterday urging him to
back down, but rejected the appeal.

Speaking before making a speech in the Wokingham constituency of the
Conservative eurosceptic, John Redwood, he said: "I will not lose a minute's
sleep over that."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP who has urged UKIP to "kill" the Tories,
condemned the disciplinary threats as petulant "children's playground stuff".

Party officials apologised for issuing "provisional" figures overstating Mr
Knapman's support.

Newspapers were told that 75 per cent of 220 constituency chairmen consulted
backed Mr Knapman. The correct figures gave him just under 50 per cent (109
branch chairmen), compared with 25 chairmen backing Mr Kilroy-Silk, 28 undecided
and the rest not available.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              65 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

Mandy back again already

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 27

LENGTH: 136 words

A shot in the arm for those who feared that now Peter Mandelson has gone to
Brussels, London-based fans won't see him any more.

For Spy hears that Mandy - who these days rejoices in the title of European
Commissioner for Trade - will soon be appearing at no less grand a location than
Dulwich College.

Why?

"Sam Farage, son of UKIP MEP Nigel, has just become chairman of the politics
society at Dulwich, and he asked Mandy to speak," I'm told.

"It all came about because another pupil happens to be the son of Tony Blair's
former foreign affairs adviser, Roger Liddle, who has just become Mandelson's
new Brussels tsar."

My source adds that a date has yet to be agreed.

However, hopes remain high that Mandy will fulfil the engagement.

"After all, in his own words, he's a fighter, not a quitter."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              66 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 21, 2004

KILROY-SILK DEFIES GAG

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 122 words


THE UK Independence Party's Robert Kilroy-Silk rejected calls for silence by his
leaders yesterday.

Leader Roger Knapman told KilroySilk, MEP and former chat show host, to end his
public criticism.

A poll of branch chairmen showed that a clear majority -109-25 - did not want Mr
Kilroy-Silk to take over.

Senior party figures wrote to Mr Kilroy-Silk with a barely-veiled threat to
throw him out if he does not obey.

But the East Midlands MEP, who has openly demanded the leadership, dismissed the
poll as "farcical".

He called for a leadership election among all 28,000 Ukip members, and insisted
he would continue to campaign for change, to make the party more effective in
the run-up to the general election.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              67 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 21, 2004

Comment & Analysis: A referendum can be won - we don't want to be isolated: Hugo
Young understood that Britain can't avoid a European future

BYLINE: Philip Stephens

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1180 words


Even those governments which have recognised that Britain cannot escape its
European destiny - including, the present one - always seem over time to retreat
from their initial resolve. Why is it that the French can be comfortable with
being French and European while we still see a choice between the two? For as
long as we define Britishness in opposition to Europeanism, we are doomed.

I don't doubt the good intentions of the prime minister. He is more comfortable
in his European skin than any of his predecessors since Edward Heath. So why
have good intentions once again given way to political expediency? Even before
Mr Blair chose to stand alongside George Bush there was ample evidence of
backsliding.

One reason is that there has rarely been a bipartisan consensus in Britain. In
most other member states, the EU is woven into the political fabric. But if we
look back on our 30 years of Britain's membership there has been only one brief
period - for two or three years after the referendum in 1975 - when both of the
two largest parties have broadly agreed on Europe.

I listened in despair as Michael Howard gave a speech at the Conservative party
conference as hostile to the EU as any I have heard. The great irony is that the
Conservatives' journey along the road of Euroscepticism has coincided with a
profound shift in the nature of the EU.

But looking back we can see that the Maastricht treaty represented the high
water mark of federalist ambition. There has been nothing since comparable to
the Single European Act negotiated by Margaret Thatcher.

Enlargement to a union of 25 has changed irreversibly the political geography of
the union. The Franco-German alliance is no longer sufficient to drive greater
integration. And for all the faux alarmism of its opponents, the constitutional
treaty codifies and entrenches the balance between the acquis communautaire and
the intergovernmentalism promoted by Britain.

Yet for as long as the European Union remains a political battleground at
Westminster, the Europhobic press and that part of our political establishment
and public opinion still trapped in the past has a powerful lever against
pro-European governments such as that of Mr Blair. Mr Murdoch's influence on the
present government - and it is painfully large - depends on the absence of
bipartisan consensus.

But this provides only part of the explanation. Pro-Europeans need to admit a
bigger failure, one that they will have to confront head-on if the referendum on
the constitutional treaty is to be won. The failure is to describe and explain
Europe as it is - to admit that membership of this particular club does involve
a diminution of what has been classically understood as national sovereignty and
to persuade people that Britain is more prosperous and secure as a consequence.

Sovereignty is the truly neuralgic word in this debate. It carries the implica
tion - never properly challenged by pro-Europeans - that Britain does have a
clear choice: it can opt for complete freedom of action outside the European
Union or surrender its independence to Brussels. Sovereignty, in this mindset,
is indivisible. Once passed to Brussels, it is lost to Britain. The debate about
our relationship is thus held on ground chosen by Eurosceptics - the union, they
say, is a zero-sum game; the only question is whether Britain emerges a winner
or loser from the all-night bargaining sessions in Brussels.

Never mind that this argument has long defied the realities of the modern world.
That for a medium-sized nation on the edge of Europe, the option of independent
action is a mirage. As Michael Heseltine once put it: "A man alone in the desert
is sovereign. He is also powerless." The same, especially after 9/11, is true of
governments.

I do not count myself among those who believe that we in Britain have to make an
existential choice between the US and Europe. But our reflexes need to be as
European as they are American - Britain cannot continue to define its ambitions
in Europe in terms of what is acceptable in Washington. Gerhard Schroder is
right when he says the traffic on Mr Blair's Atlantic bridge is too often
one-way. The government takes America's views to the capitals of Europe. It
should more often take Europe's views to Washington.

It is a paradox that the conventional wisdom is that a victory for George Bush
in the US presidential election would be politically the most comfortable for Mr
Blair. In fact, the prime minister needs John Kerry to win. A Democratic White
House would give him an opportunity to rebalance Britain's twin relationships
with Europe and the US.

The old transatlantic alliance cannot now be resurrected in its old postwar
form. The collapse of communism dissolved the glue long provided by the Soviet
threat. Europe is no longer at the centre of America's geopolitical interests;
and the American guarantee is no longer the sine qua non of European security.
But a Kerry presidency would provide the opportunity, if not the certainty, of a
new relationship. Britain's strategic interests still lie firmly in the
re-establishment of a cohesive alliance, in the rebuilding at both ends of Mr
Blair's bridge across the Atlantic.

But that in turn also requires that the government wins the referendum on the
proposed constitutional treaty. Here, I am at once pessimistic and optimistic.
Pessimistic because, like everyone else, I read the opinion polls. And because I
see no evidence that the government is mobilising the Yes vote. The word from
Downing Street is that noth ing serious is to be said about the referendum until
after the general election - Mr Murdoch's malevolent influence again. Mr Blair
promises then to work his persuasive magic. He might have learned by now that
the magic has faded.

Yet I am optimistic because in spite of the message of the opinion polls, I
suspect that the British electorate has more common sense on this issue that we
give it credit for. Look beyond the saloon bar xenophobia of Ukip and most
people do not find it that difficult to reconcile their Britishness with the
idea that we are part of a larger construct.

If the referendum is framed, as it must be, in terms of a choice between
continued active involvement in the EU and isolation on the margins of an
organisation that nonetheless shapes our future, most voters may conclude that
their heads should rule their hearts. The message that the Yes camp must convey,
and it has the virtue of being the honest one, is that the status quo option is
to back the treaty. The British do not want to be isolated.

Lord Palmerston famously remarked that Britain did not have allies, only
interests. The facts of the modern world are such that interests can only be
pursued through alliances. As Hugo Young so eloquently reminded us, we may be
unable to forget the past, but nor can we avoid the future.

This is an edited extract from the first Hugo Young memorial lecture, given by
Philip Stephens of the Financial Times at Chatham House last night


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 21, 2004

Ukip leaders round on defiant Kilroy: Former TV presenter risks expulsion after
coup attempt

BYLINE: Michael White and Sandra Laville

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1048 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat show host turned politician, was yesterday
reprimanded by his party leadership for rocking the boat for the second time in
barely a week.

Leading figures in the UK Independence party admitted that the public infighting
could prove catastrophic and risked losing the hard-won electoral success of the
June poll when 2.6m votes were won.

Yesterday Mr Kilroy-Silk renewed his attack on Ukip's leader, Roger Knapman, who
had ordered the former daytime television presenter to be a team player and to
cease attacks on his own party.

At a public meeting in Wokingham, Berkshire, last night, Mr Kilroy-Silk said:
"There isn't a team. If there was a team then the criticism would be valid but
it's not. It is the people here who want to belong to a real political party,
I'm only interested in the direction that the party is going. I want the
leadership to be democratically elected."

But for those observers who have followed the party's fortunes since it was
founded, the dispute is nothing new.

Over the past seven years the disasters - many of them self made - have come
thick and fast. Ukip, formed in 1993 to oppose Britain's EU membership, has seen
at least three leadership challenges, been infiltrated by racists, had a mass
walkout of its national executive committee, faced allegations of intimidatory
tactics, and fought off claims of financial wrongdoing and threats of costly
legal action.

Yesterday the latest dispute came to a head when its leader Mr Knapman called
for Mr Kilroy Silk to stop his criticism of the party, and claimed a straw poll
of branch chairs showed they backed him.

Other senior party figures issued a scarcely veiled threat to throw Mr
Kilroy-Silk out if he did not end his attempt at a leadership coup.

But the former Labour MP, whose high-profile role in the European elections in
June helped Ukip win 11 seats, condemned the poll as "farcical" and claimed
activists had been subjected to moral blackmail and emotional pressure to stand
by the leader. He said he refused to be silent about "extremely important and
serious defects in the party".

Nigel Farage, Ukip MEP for the south-east, has warned officials they must act
decisively to stop the challenge from Mr Kilroy-Silk.

As the warring factions traded insults over the airwaves yesterday, Ukip gave a
very good impression of being a riven party facing all-out civil war. A senior
Tory Eurosceptic MP said last night: "Ukip is tearing itself apart, but it is
perception not reality that will count. People who want to withdraw from Europe
will vote Ukip and we will lose votes. Tony Blair and Charles Kennedy are
laughing all the way to the bank."

Along the way the party has provided plenty to laugh at - the time when, for
instance, the party's new MEP for the south-west, Graham Booth, had to apologise
after giving his maiden speech in incomprehensible Devonian, which he said was
his mother tongue.

Alan Sked, a lecturer at the London School of Economics, who founded the party,
yesterday said Ukip was filled with the politically naive and intellectually
challenged. Dr Sked had left the party in 1997 complaining of extremists and
electoral doom. "I kill myself laughing when I look at it now," he said
yesterday. "It is a Westminster farce except it's not in Westminster."

It was all a long way from the ideals discussed in the party's infancy, when Dr
Sked hoped to attract brilliant young graduates, political thinkers and
intellectuals. Instead, he claims, Ukip was taken over by a group of "aged
xenophobes . . . meaningless fuddy duddies with very little intelligence" who
brought the Eurosceptic movement into disrepute. "There is a perfectly good
intelligent case for Britain coming out of Europe, but people . . . stand back
in horror."

But he admitted it was attempts to attract graduates that led Ukip into more hot
water when he invited Mark Deavin, one of his post graduate students, to join in
the 90s. Mr Deavin was a leading figure in the British National Party; it
provided ammunition for those who were accusing Ukip of being a racist party.

That murky image was bolstered when Dr Sked recalled an argument with Mr Farage
over the inclusion of a statement on the party's membership form opposing
discrimination against minorities. Dr Sked claims Mr Farage told him: "We will
never win the nigger vote. The nig nogs will never vote for us."

Mr Farage, a futures trader, has dismissed this tale as "rubbish" and accused Dr
Sked of being demented. But Mr Farage has struggled to shake off his xenophobic
image. He is currently embroiled in a row over Martyn Heale, the Ukip branch
chairman in Thanet, who once had links with the far right. Many Ukip members
want to know how Mr Heale, a former prison officer who was once the National
Front branch organiser in Hammersmith, was allowed into the party. In the row Mr
Farage is backing Mr Heale.

Mr Farage is leading the campaign against Mr Kilroy-Silk. In letters to those
chairing the branches he accuses Mr Kilroy-Silk of a damaging leadership
challenge.

But his straw poll of the branches has not satisfied everyone. Some chairs
complained yesterday that they had not been invited to give a view. One member
lodged an official complaint against Mr Farage accusing him of bringing the
party into disrepute.

Watching from his home in Hampshire, Michael Holmes, a self-made businessman and
the leader of Ukip from 1998 until 2000, said all the feuding was in character.
"They are a fringe organisation and fringe organisations just row with each
other. Ukip attracts a certain type of person who may not have much experience
of life anywhere else. They feel important, suddenly, they are not going to get
into the Oxford eight and row the same way."

Mr Holmes was forced to resign in 2000 after some of the most bitter infighting
in the party's history. He blames the stroke and heart bypass operation he
underwent, following the resignation, on the intimidatory tactics that were
employed by the leading cabal. He wants nothing more to do with the party.

A friend said: "He said that he could not help Roger (Knapman). He told him that
he would not want to be in the same room as some of the people in the party."


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

WHY OUR VIEW OF GERMANY IS LOCKED IN A 60-YEAR TIMEWARP;
 BRITAIN'S OBSESSION WITH THE WAR COLOURS ITS ATTITUDE TOWARDS ITS

BYLINE: ALLAN MASSIE Perpetuating old images, John Cleese with his Nazi strut in
Fawlty Towers'; Andreas Moller after his penalty knocked England out of the 1996
European Championships: the television advert in which Britons try to beat
Germans to the best poolside spots; the military face of Bismarck; and Hitler,
depicted with Hitler Youth, in the film Der Untergang'Fischer: images of Germany
are three generations out of date

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1470 words


WE HAVE all laughed at Basil Fawlty's panicky injunction: "Don't mention the
war." And it made some sense when the TV series was shot in the 1970s. There
were middle-aged Germans then whose personal experiences between 1939 and 1945
were, one felt, more tactfully left unexamined.

But now? Next May it will be 60 years since Adolf Hitler shot himself while his
vile regime crumbled and Berlin fell to the Red Army. One of the last
photographs of Hitler outside his bunker shows him reviewing members of the
Hitler Youth, some no more than 12 or 13, about to engage in the desperate
defence of the city.

Even the youngest of any survivors among them is now over 70. There are German
pensioners who had just started at primary school in 1945. We are a long way
from the war. The Nazis are history, rapidly receding history. Prussia, which
many British people mistakenly identified with the Nazis, is still more distant.
Indeed, much of what was Prussia is now Poland or Lithuania.

Yet it seems to Germans that we here have a view of their country which remains
stuck in the first half of the 20th century. It is, the German Foreign Minister
Joschka Fischer says, "more than three generations out of date", He adds: "My
children are 20 and 25 and when they watch Germany in some of the British media,
they think this is a picture they have never seen in their whole lifetimes." In
truth, it is a picture Mr Fischer, born three years after the war ended, has not
seen in his own adult years.

Is he right? It is not just for those old enough to have fought in the Second
World War, or who lost husbands, wives, fiances, lovers and friends between 1939
and 1945, that Germany remains what it was then. It is not only the tabloids,
old movies, and Commando comics that keep alive the "schweinhund" stereotype.

Nor is it even the awareness of the Holocaust that makes it difficult for some
to regard Germans without suspicion: though this especially means that there are
often awkwardnesses in conversation. We hesitate to ask about fathers and
grandfathers, but we forget, or never think, that young Germans today may
experience similar embarrassment.

There is another reason why we are stuck in the past. The two most popular
topics for historical study in our schools are the Russian Revolution and the
Nazi regime; and the latter is the more popular. It is easy to see why history
teachers choose it. There is a great deal of material, much of it available on
film or video, and the subject is almost guaranteed to interest pupils. Few
children, fortunately, respond positively to the seedy glamour of the Nazis,
but, equally, few are bored. History as horror movie grips.

Mr Fischer says: "Germany has changed in a democratic positive way. Today this
is a democracy. Two or three generations have grown up as real democrats. If you
want to learn how the traditional Prussian goosestep works, you have to watch
British TV because in Germany in the younger generation - even in my generation
- nobody knows how to perform it."

Indeed yes, Germany is a democracy, and, morever, a federal democracy, in which
politics are evolved decently, in discussions around tables, not in the streets.
Talking heads on TV have supplanted Nuremberg rallies. There are, admittedly,
fringe right-wing parties, always labelled neo- Nazi, whose occasional very
minor electoral successes are always seized on by our media, But they are no
more significant than similar groups in Britain, in France, Belgium and other
European countries.

German democracy is decent and dull. Far from being aggressive and expansionist,
Germany has almost no foreign policy. In truth, the conventionally hostile
picture of Germany common in Britain is based on two short periods in the
country's history: the second half of the 19th century and the 12 years of the
Nazi regime.

Our early Victorians saw Germany and Germans differently. It was a land of
music, of poetry and philosophy. The Germans were serious, pious people. Carlyle
called them "a just people, framing all their institutions for ends of justice".
At the time of the Franco-Prussian war of 1870, he contrasted "noble, patient,
deep, pious and solid Germany" with "vapouring, vainglorious, gesticulating,
quarrelsome, restless and over-sensitive France".

This may be dismissed as an example of Carlyle's Teutonomania; but it was German
literature especially Goethe, serene, liberal and magnificent, not German
militarism, that had brought him to love Germany.

And even while Bismarck made wars to unite Germany, he had the support of much
enlightened opinion in Britain. When Cecil Rhodes founded his scholarships at
Oxford University the only foreigners eligible were Americans, and Germans.

German unity was not achieved until 1871. Before then, there were numerous
German states, some very small, and Germany was, in truth, a mere geographical
expression. Many Germans disliked the new Reich: Prussians because they feared
that traditional Prussian virtues and qualities would be diluted; others because
they resented or disliked Prussia and the Prussians. Konrad Adenauer, the first
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of (West) Germany after 1945, was one such;
in his view, Asia began east of the River Elbe.

Bur Prussia itself was not always the Prussia of goose-stepping militarists. It
was one of the first states in Europe to practise religious toleration, more
liberal in this respect than early 18th-century Britain. It welcomed French
Huguenot refugees; in 1700, one-third of the population of Berlin was
French-speaking. Germany was, from the time of Frederick the Great (1740-86) a
Rechtstaat, a state governed by a published code of law.

Admittedly, Frederick, later the subject of Carlyle's admiring biography, waged
aggressive war, but this shabby, misanthropic homosexual (non-practising) who
preferred his dogs to human beings and worked incessantly, became a popular
figure in Britain when he was our only European ally in the Seven Years' War;
inns and public-houses were renamed "The Protestant Hero" in his honour.

Bismarck and Kaiser Wilhelm II between them changed our perception of Prussia
and Germany. Imperial-Wilhelmine Germany was distinguished by a vulgar and
brutal arrogance, a militaristic state where civilians were required to step
aside to let officers pass them on the pavement. It was neurotically aggressive.
Francophiles such as Hillaire Belloc and Rudyard Kipling found it repulsive and
dangerous; it was Kipling who popularised the term "the Hun".

The 1914-18 war, with its stories of Hunnish atrocities, not all of them
invented, fixed the image of Germany here: it was Prussian, brutal, warlike,
dangerous, a menace the peace of Europe. Not all the achievements of German
science and scholarship, not all the freedoms and cultural brilliance or
excitement of the Weimar republic could efface this.

And then came the Nazis threatening the world with, as Churchill said, "a new
dark age made more sinister ... by the lights of a perverted science". In 1945,
we began to learn just how horribly perverted that science was; then came the
revelation of the Holocaust, so awful it was natural to forget that pre-Hitler
Germany was no more anti-Semitic than other European countries, far less so than
Tsarist Russia and that Jews had been more thoroughly assimilated in Germany
than in any other European state. That added to the horror.

We forget too, or too easily, that not all Germans were Nazis (just as few of
the Nazi leaders were Prussians, and pre-Hitler Berlin was a socialist city),
and that indeed the Nazis never won a free election.

Be that as it may, a Nazi Germany is as dead as Wilhelmine Prussia. Germany is
not what it was then. Perhaps it has more in common with the land of Goethe than
the Second or Third Reich. We should recognise it as "force for good, not evil
as in those perverted decades".

The young students I have met on a couple of visits to German universities are
as far from being Nazis as is imaginable. They have more in common with those
brave Munich students who, influenced by anti-Nazi academics, formed the White
Rose group in opposition to Hitler, and suffered death by the guillotine.

Joschka Fischer calls for more exchange visits between young people to help us
to "discover the reality of modern Germany". I hope that call is answered. It
might help dispel ignorance. But at Tubingen University this summer I was told
there are more than 20 times the number of Spanish students there than British
ones.

In Britain, the United Kingdom Independence Party, its policies founded on fear
and resentment of foreigners, casts a dark shadow. It is time to open a window
on truth and look at Germany as it is today.

Leading article, page 36

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              70 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: DEBATE WITHIN UKIP

BYLINE: GERARD BATTEN MEP AND OTHERS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 274 words


Sir: The continuing speculation in the media about the leadership of the UK
Independence Party has not been helped by the recent Mugabe- style telephone
poll of branch chairmen conducted by paid employees of the party (report, 20
October). Branch chairmen and activists are unlikely to express their views
openly to a member of staff over the telephone.

There is a perfectly legitimate debate to be had about the political future of
the party. Robert Kilroy-Silk represents the view that UKIP should develop into
a mass movement capable of winning seats at Westminster and taking a major role
at the heart of British politics. A small element of the Party, with
disproportionate power, seem to prefer that UKIP should be just a vehicle for
changing the Conservative Party's policy on the European Union. This is contrary
to UKIP's founding principles and the wishes of the overwhelming majority of its
ordinary members, as demonstrated at our recent party conference when a motion
not to stand against "Eurosceptic" candidates was not so much defeated as
annihilated.

UKIP faces a tremendous opportunity in the coming general election as the only
party advocating British political, national and economic independence. The
debate is not about personalities but about how best to maximise UKIP's chances
in the election and forward the cause of the country we all love.

GERARD BATTEN MEP

(London Region)

DAMIAN HOCKNEY

Leader, UKIP Group, London Assembly

CRAIG MACKINLAY

National Vice-Chairman

ANTHONY SCHOLEFIELD

NEC member

JOHN de ROECK

Chairman, London Region

MICHAEL HARVEY

London SE1

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              71 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy turns up the heat in his fight to be leader of UKIP

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 29

LENGTH: 557 words


THE campaign by Robert Kilroy-Silk to take over the UK Independence Party
gathered pace last night as he gave the first in a national series of talks to
galvanise support.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's speech in the Wokingham constituency of the Tory frontbencher
John Redwood received a further boost when the UKIP had to retract the results
of its "definitive" poll, ordered by Roger Knapman, the party's leader.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that Mr Knapman had exerted "moral blackmail and emotional
pressure" on party members, and accused the leader of being invisible.

He denied that he was now out in the cold and vowed to fight on. "It doesn't
feel very cold from where I am, I can tell you," he said. "It feels as if I'm in
the heat of the kitchen and, you know what, I'm not getting out."

He added: "If they have come round to the idea of testing opinion, then why
don't they test the views of all 28,000 members in an open, honest vote that is
independently verifiable?"

The confusion was increased when eight of the party's eleven MEPs signed an open
letter to Mr Kilroy-Silk, saying that the survey had contacted "all branch
chairman" and found overwhelming support for Mr Knapman, a claim that had
already been withdrawn by the party's officials. The letter repeats a threat
made by Mr Knapman that the party may throw Mr Kilroy-Silk out of its group in
the European Parliament.

It states: "We feel bound to point out that we will take firm action against
further attempts to foment dissent, which we would not tolerate."

But the MEPs' interpretation of the poll was directly contradicted by the
party's headquarters. At first officials had declared that all the party's 224
branch chairmen had been contacted over two days, and 75 per cent were in favour
of Mr Knapman remaining leader. Many branch chairman protested, however, that no
one had attempted to contact them, and that they believed that a
disproportionate number of those not contacted were supporters of Mr
Kilroy-Silk.

The party then acknowledged that it had made a mistake and that only 162
branches were polled. According to its revised figures, Mr Kilroy-Silk had
majority support in Yorkshire, and nearly majority support in the Eastern
region. More than 50 chairmen contacted refused to give a clear commitment to Mr
Knapman.

Catherine Cracknell, chairman of the Falmouth and Camborne branch, said that
there were five chairmen in Cornwall, and the two who were known to support Mr
Kilroy-Silk had not been contacted. "Not only was I not contacted, but the two
who support Knapman were and the other two who support Kilroy were not," Mrs
Cracknell said. "Now I may have a cynical mind, but I don't think that's right."

Damian Hockey, leader of the UKIP group in the London Assembly, and also
chairman of a London branch, said that he, too, had not been contacted, despite
the party having his mobile phone number. "It is strange how certain people were
overlooked in this supposedly comprehensive poll," Mr Hockney said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's speech in Wokingham was a brief pause in his efforts to
overthrow Mr Knapman, focusing instead on attacking Mr Redwood, who he said was
lying when he claimed that the Conservatives could "repatriate" powers currently
governed by the European constitution.

www.timesonline.co.uk

Latest news


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

UKIP snub for Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 221 words

THE UK Independence Party would reject Robert Kilroy-Silk's leadership attempt,
according to a survey of constituency chairmen, which showed overwhelming
support for Roger Knapman, the current party leader.

The former television chat show host said not even the threat of expulsion would
curb his leadership ambitions.

In a survey of about 220 constituency branches, three out of four backed Mr
Knapman, 12 per cent Mr Kilroy-Silk and 13 per cent were undecided.

Mr Knapman, a former Tory MP, hinted that Mr Kilroy-Silk - like Mr Knapman a
UKIP Euro-MP - could face suspension from the party's European Parliament group
if he continued to aim for the leadership.

"There's a limit to our patience," Mr Knapman said.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk said last night that "nothing" the party leadership did would
stop him from fighting for Britain to regain its self-governance, and dismissed
the constituency poll as worthy of a "banana republic".

Earlier, Alan Bown - UKIP's only remaining big donor - threatened Mr Kilroy-Silk
with the withdrawal of promised general election funding of at least pounds
50,000 unless he dropped his leadership challenge "for the sake of the party".

But Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, swept aside the threat, saying: "I am
not for sale. I have never been for sale. I am not a bought man."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              73 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 20, 2004

Ukip branches reject Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 396 words


The UK Independence party's embattled leadership claimed victory last night in
its effort to curb Robert Kilroy-Silk's bid to take over the Eurosceptic
campaign after its sounding out of constituency chairmen showed overwhelming
support for the current team.

Party officials fighting a rearguard action to hold together the feud-prone body
since it came third in the June 10 EU elections, with 11 MEPs, said that Roger
Knapman had the support of 75% of the 235 chairmen polled, against 12% for
change. The remainder were undecided.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP and daytime TV star, himself one of the 11,
immediately protested that activists had been "leaned on" to endorse Mr Knapman
and said he would continue to air "legitimate differences" of opinion about the
party's future direction.

"Do they want to be a fringe party taking decisions behind closed doors, or do
they want to be a campaigning party? They were a little party whose old habits
did not matter, now they are a big party," he told the Guardian after issuing a
weekend email statement which dismissed Ukip's "self-selecting cabal".

Scornful of the way Ukip has been managed, he said on Radio 4: "I am very
pleased that they have been converted to the idea of elections. But I am sorry
it is not an honest, open election which is verifiable, but a back-door
conspiratorial election reminiscent of a banana republic."

But his insistence that he would remain "my own man, making my own decisions,
not because someone is waving a chequebook in my face," brought an irate
response from Alan Brown, the wealthy London wholesaler who has given Ukip
£500,000 in the past year.

Unless Mr Kilroy-Silk stopped making waves "I will consider withdrawing funding
from Robert's campaign to stand for parliament in the East Midlands", he said.

"I am saying, 'Hang on there, you are rocking the boat,'" he said last night.

Mr Knapman, himself an ex-Tory MP and whip, had been a loyal and successful
leader for two years, and had two more to serve, he said.

"It's not realistic to think we are going to disregard someone who has been so
loyal to us, just because Robert comes along.

"He's a TV star and we're grateful, but we are people of principle."

Ukip officials said that Mr Kilroy-Silk had denied issuing Sunday's "10 issues"
email. Yesterday he denied the denial.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 20, 2004

Society: Off diary: Irrecoverable position: Anger as Ukip protects itself from
mental illness 'extremists'

BYLINE: Adam James

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words


Has the UK Independence party (Ukip) developed as much disdain for people with
mental health problems as it has for Europe? The party's website states that, to
protect itself from "extremists", anyone "with a record of serious mental
illness" is barred from applying to become a parliamentary or council candidate.

Evidently, winning votes from the mental health lobby has never been Ukip's
priority. Its most high profile MP is Robert Kilroy-Silk, who last year was
shortlisted for Mind's bigot of the year award for his anti-mental illness rants
in tabloid newspapers.

Ukip's director of communications, Mark Croucher, insists his party will not
change its policy. He clarifies that the party's definition of serious mental
illness encompasses schizophrenia, but not depression or manic depression. "As
the condition (schizophrenia) is widely regarded as incurable, this is a good
reason to debar such people from office," he says. "The majority of people
recognise that while schizophrenia is controllable with medication, you cannot
get better.

"I am not aware of any MP or someone holding political office who suffers from
schizophrenia. With manic depression, for example, there can be a resolution."

Paul Farmer is director of public affairs of Rethink, a charity that campaigns
against discrimination towards those with a mental health diagnosis. He accuses
Ukip of "shocking" discrimination and has demanded that it change its rules.

"Ukip's shocking policy on mental health issues beggars belief," Farmer says.
"Their stigmatising approach is based on prejudice, ignorance and fear, not the
facts about severe mental illness. It is a rule that belongs to the dark ages,
not the 21st century. People who have experienced severe mental illness have
gone on to work in business, politics and public life."

I put Croucher's comments to Ron Coleman, who, after being diagnosed with
schizophrenia, went on later to become a director of a company with 14
employees, and now travels the world lecturing on recovery. "It's nonsense that
people do not recover from schizophrenia," he says. "Ukip knows nothing about
mental health."


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

KILROY LOSES POLL ON UKIP LEADERSHIP BID

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 203 words


ROBERT KILROY-Silk said last night that he would not give up his bid for the
leadership of the UK Independence Party despite a poll of party chairmen showing
a majority against him.

The millionaire backer of UKIP, Alan Bown, threatened to withdraw funding for Mr
Kilroy- Silk's East Midlands European seat, to stop his challenge to the UKIP
leader, Roger Knapman, a former Tory MP.

Mr Knapman's backers released a straw poll of half of the UKIP party chairmen
showing 69 per cent would vote for Mr Knapman compared to only 13 per cent for
Mr Kilroy-Silk.

"If Robert decided to continue with his leadership challenge, I will reluctantly
have to reconsider the funding that I have promised for his personal election
campaign in the East Midlands," said Mr Bown, a Kent businessman.

Supporters of Mr Kilroy-Silk, who wants to stand for the Westminster Parliament,
condemned the poll as false and fraudulent and a "Mugabe-style plebiscite". Mr
Kilroy-Silk said: "Nothing will make any difference. I will carry on making the
case to govern ourselves."

His supporters, led by Damian Hockney, UKIP's leader on the Greater London
Assembly, are considering legal action to force a leadership election.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              76 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 731 words


Sir Trevor owes his success to his skin colour, says Tory MP

Not for the first time in recent days, one of Michael Howard's MPs has caused
great offence by making insensitive comments about an ethnic group.

Pandora has received an email from Jonathan Sayeed MP's parliamentary address.
It suggests - in light of my recent competition - a "killer question" to be put
to Sir Trevor McDonald at Cancer Research UK's annual Turn the Tables lunch.

His query, for the Trinidad-born McDonald, right, read as follows: "Do you feel
embarrassed at having benefited from positive discrimination?"

According to race-relations groups, this is an ill-advised question for anyone -
not least a Tory MP - to be asking.

"Jonathan Sayeed falls into the racist thinking that black people in senior or
public profile positions couldn't possibly have got there on merit or ability,"
says Karen Chouhan, of the 1990 Trust. "How rude to suggest it was Sir Trevor's
colour or race that got him the job. He should sue: we'd back him."

Sir Trevor is also irked. "It would be nice to know how I've benefited from
positive discrimination," he tells me. "It's a very odd thing for him to say,
although I wouldn't say it's offensive. Just juvenile."

Sayeed, left, won't return my calls. He's already being investigated by a
Parliamentary watchdog, after the Sunday Times claimed he was taking paying
guests on tours of Westminster, so has good reason to keep his head down.

Archer's pursuit of the world record

AT LONG last, I can reveal the result of Lord Archer's "record breaking" effort
in the London Marathon.

In January, the old lag decided to raise pounds 1.66m, pounds 1 for every inch
of the 26 mile, 385-yard race. That would eclipse the world record held by the
rap artist Puff Daddy, who was sponsored $ 2m (pounds 1.19m) in last year's New
York Marathon.

Ever since the race - which took him five and a half hours - Lord Archer has
rather oddly refused to say whether he's been successful. But now marathon
organiser David Bedford has let the cat out of the bag.

"Jeffrey's told me he has already raised more than pounds 1m and has outstanding
pledges from another 118 people, which should secure him the world record," says
Bedford.

"I imagine he will chase those people as hard as others have chased him, with
every breath in his body."

Kilroy-Silk snubs Collins

ROBERT KILROY-SILK has delivered a snub to the UK Independence Party's foremost
celebrity supporter. Perhaps unwisely, given his role in the party's current
in-fighting, RK-S failed to turn up at the launch of Joan Collins' novel
Misfortune's Daughters in Knightsbridge on Monday, despite being sent an
invitation.

"He was meant to be here; he accepted," said a disappointed Joanie, above. "I've
been in the States, so I've been out of the loop as far as UKIP is concerned,
but they should have called up and told me about any problems. I should have
been told."

"It sounds terrible that there's a split. Robert was very good for the party, so
I hope this doesn't turn into a big problem." Too late!

Day trippers

IT NEVER rains, but it pours for the people of Liverpool. First, they are
insulted by Boris Johnson; now, the ultimate bombshell.

John Lennon's half-sister Julia Baird has told the Chester Chronicle that
Liverpool's favourite son actually preferred the nearby Roman city of Chester.

"During our childhood, John and I used to spend a lot of time there," she says.
"We always used to come to Chester, as we always knew it was the best place for
clothes shopping. John was very fond of Chester. We always thought it was the
place to be, not Liverpool."

In the excitement over Jonathan Sayeed - see above - I forgot to name the winner
of my Turn The Tables competition.

He was Mark Riley, who wins a bottle of Dom Perignon 1996 for suggesting that
Diane Abbott should ask Edward Stourton if going to a "posh public school"
(Ampleforth) helped his career.

Sounds innocuous enough, but there's an elephant trap: the question allowed
Stourton to raise Abbot's decision to send her own son a posh private school.
After much stammering, Abbot - who was once a stern critic of private education
- offered the following excuse: "It doesn't matter, because he wouldn't sound
posh on the radio."

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 16 words


"This is not a grown-up party."

ROBERT KILROY-SILK, MEP,

ON THE UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: WE HAVE NO DUTY TO HELP THIS US ASSAULT

BYLINE: D J BROWNING

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 156 words


Sir: Let us focus on the realities of deploying a battalion of British infantry
to support US Forces near Baghdad. The US Army has approximately 140,000
soldiers in theatre. How much difference can a battalion battle group of 650 men
make to that?

The purpose of this request is obvious and two-fold. Firstly to provide a
figleaf of cover for this wholly illegal war, to assist the re-election of the
US President. Secondly, to imbroil British forces deeper into the war. How long
will it be before more units from the British Army are required to support the
unit which will inevitably come under heavy pressure ?

It is clear that the UK is yet again being used by the Bush administration as a
pawn in its game. How long will Parliament permit this manipulation of this
country? Perhaps the UKIP would care to focus on this as an example of loss of
British sovereignty.

D J BROWNING

Altrincham, Greater Manchester

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

Fortune smiles on Tories as Joan fancies a change

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 11

LENGTH: 142 words


GOOD news for Michael Howard. The impossibly glamorous Joan Collins is joining
the long list of defectors from the United Kingdom Independence Party. The
evergreen star, pictured, who was in London to launch her fifth novel,
Misfortune's Daughter, was dismayed by the disarray in the ranks of the UKIP, of
which she is the newly appointed patron.

Told that Paul Sykes, the party's benefactor, had switched back to the Tories,
La Collins drooled: "Darling, I am a natural Tory."

Collins, recruited to the UKIP in the summer after she wrote an article in The
Times condemning monetary union, was opposed to Robert Kilroy-Silk's stated
ambition to kill off the Tory party.

"That's not why I agreed to be patron," said the siren, who was smoking a
cigarette.

"In fact, if I am here, and not in America, I might vote Tory. Why not?"


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 20, 2004, Wednesday

Kilroy-Silk could lose UKIP whip in leadership battle

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 353 words


THE UK Independence Party may throw Robert Kilroy-Silk out of its group in the
European Parliament if he continues his fight to become leader.

Roger Knapman, the current leader, reached deadlock with Mr Kilroy-Silk last
night when a telephone survey of the party showed that 75 per cent did not want
a change of leader.

After this survey of all 235 branch chairmen, aides close to Mr Knapman said
that Mr Kilroy-Silk should accept defeat or suffer the indignity of losing the
party's whip in the European Parliament. "Removing the whip has been discussed.
It just depends how contrite Mr Kilroy-Silk is," an aide to the MEPs said.

In a further day of divisive turmoil for the UKIP, Mr Knapman received support
from Alan Bown, the party's most generous donor since the departure of the
Yorkshire millionaire Paul Sykes. Mr Bown, who made his fortune from a chain of
bookmakers in Kent, said that if Mr Kilroy-Silk did not back down, he would
withdraw the funding that he was relying on to fight a general election campaign
in the East Midlands. Mr Kilroy-Silk has previously said that he has a war chest
of £100,000 for his general election campaign, and Mr Bown is estimated to have
promised half of that.

"The figures from the survey agree with my own view that there should be no
contest," Mr Bown said. "Consequently, I am appealing to Robert to abandon his
leadership bid for the sake of party unity. If Robert decides to continue with
his leadership challenge, I will reluctantly have to reconsider the funding that
I have promised for his personal election campaign in the East Midlands."

Mr Kilroy-Silk retorted: "I am not for sale and never have been." He called the
poll, ordered by Mr Knapman to shore up his support, a banana-republic exercise,
in which branch chairmen felt obliged to state their loyalty when questioned by
workers for Mr Knapman.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is addressing a meeting of the party in Wokingham, the seat of
John Redwood, the most Eurosceptic member of the Shadow Cabinet, tonight. A
further series of talks is planned for next month in London and in Kent.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 19, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP leader calls snap poll to halt Kilroy-Silk

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 565 words


Counter-attack is designed to test party loyalty, writes Helen Rumbelow

The head of the UK Independence Party last night launched a major counter attack
against Robert Kilroy-Silk's leadership bid, calling a snap poll of the
membership.

Roger Knapman, the leader, asked official workers to spend the evening
contacting all the branch chairmen at home to test their loyalty to him. The
poll was conducted on the night before each of the 400 chairmen received a
personal letter from Mr Kilroy-Silk, attacking Mr Knapman and Nigel Farage, a
prominent MEP, as "a self-selecting cabal".

The mood of the branch chairmen is crucial to both sides. If Mr Knapman can
announce that the majority do not want a leadership contest, that takes the wind
out of Mr Kilroy-Silk's ambitions.

But the risk is that more than 20per cent of the branch chairmen do want a
leadership contest. This could trigger an emergency general meeting to decide
the increasingly bitter power struggle in a party prone to self-destruct through
infighting.

When Mr Kilroy-Silk was told about the telephone poll he declared it a
"stitch-up", adding: "I'd like to know the result at a properly conducted
ballot."

In his letter to the branch chairmen, Mr Kilroy-Silk presents a ten-point
leadership manifesto. He is scathing about Mr Knapman and Mr Farage's direction
for the party, saying that they rely "on paid foreign advisers and self
confessed lying PR men", referring to the American political consultant Dick
Morris and the PR guru Max Clifford, both employed by Mr Knapman.

A particular bone of contention is the overwhelming decision to stand in every
seat at the next general election.

Last week the party's 11 MEPs met in Brussels when they failed to find a
permanent resolution to the split. "I haven't called for an election, I'm just
going to carry on talking to the party, I want the party to decide," Mr
Kilroy-Silk said.

Last night the party chairmen were asked "do you want a leadership ballot?" and
party insiders said that they were "fairly confident" that they would achieve
over 80per cent support, but those in Mr Kilroy-Silk's camp were already
questioning the reliability of the poll, believing that branch chairman will
find it difficult to be openly disloyal.

"It is open warfare now, each camp is organising," said one UKIP member in
support of Mr Kilroy-Silk.

According to the UKIP constitution, the phone poll does not carry any official
weight. There are only two ways to force a leadership contest, if Mr Knapman
does not resign.

One is for 20per cent of the branch chairmen to write to the party secretary,
each accompanied by a cheque for £100. This triggers a emergency general meeting
within one month, at which they can vote for a membership ballot, which is
organised by the electoral reform society.

The other is if the party's National Executive Committee pass a vote of
no-confidence in Mr Knapman, but insiders estimate that most NEC members support
the current leader.

Many believe the next stage is for Mr Kilroy-Silk to begin a tour of branches to
muster support among the 26,500 members of the UKIP, many of whom joined in the
past six months after Mr Kilroy-Silk joined the party.

Tomorrow night he is speaking to a meeting of the party in Wokingham, the
constituency of the Eurosceptic Shadow Cabinet member, John Redwood.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 19, 2004, Tuesday

Challenger's rise from humble roots

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 319 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk is, in style and background, diametrically opposed to the
UKIP's leader, the quiet, former Conservative MP Roger Knapman (Helen Rumbelow
writes).

His double-barrelled name is deceptive: Mr Kilroy-Silk was born into poverty in
Birmingham in 1942. His father, Bill Silk, was killed in action in the Second
World War and his mother re-married John Kilroy. He took both names after being
teased at school.

He went from a degree at the London School of Economics to a job as a politics
lecturer at Liverpool University. In 1963, he married Jan Beech, a shop
steward's daughter with an uncle at the heart of the Birmingham Labour Party
machine. The couple have two children. Mr Kilroy-Silk also has a son with
another woman.

He won the Ormskirk seat for Labour in 1974 and set the style of his career of
attention-grabbing statements by declaring that he "wanted to be the next Prime
Minister".

In 1983 his seat disappeared in boundary changes and he moved to the Merseyside
constituency of North Knowsley, where the militant tendency ousted him for being
"new Labour" before its time.

He walked away from politics in 1985 to front his morning chat show on the BBC
the following year. A column in the Daily Express followed.

In 1992 Mr Kilroy-Silk apologised to Irish people after he used his column to
launch an attack on a country "peopled by peasants, priests and pixies". An
article in the Express in January calling Arabs "suicide bombers, limb
amputators and women repressors" cost him his job at the BBC.

His last-minute decision to join the UKIP in May had a dramatic effect on the
European elections in June. The party went from fourth to second place, winning
more than a quarter of the vote. Just hours after being elected Mr Kilroy-Silk
pledged to "wreck" the European Parliament, immediately plotting a collision
course with the unassuming Mr Knapman.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 18, 2004, Monday

Open war as Kilroy-Silk condemns UKIP 'cabal'

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 364 words

THE UK Independence Party descended into open warfare yesterday after backers of
Robert Kilroy-Silk reaffirmed his ambition to take over the leadership and fight
every seat at the next general election.

Days after UKIP chiefs sought to curb Mr Kilroy-Silk's ambitions, the former
Labour MP and his supporters launched a carefully co-ordinated attack on the
current leader, Roger Knapman, and any policy of doing "shoddy electoral deals"
with the Tories.

In a 10-point letter to UKIP branch chairmen to be issued today, Mr Kilroy-Silk
effectively condemns the leadership of Mr Knapman, a former Tory MP, and Nigel
Farage, UKIP's group leader in Brussels, as a "self-selecting cabal" ready to
make "dishonourable pacts" with Eurosceptic Tory MPs.

This month, Mr Kilroy-Silk urged UKIP's annual conference to "kill" the
Conservative Party, and activists voted overwhelmingly to fight all general
election seats without regard for sitting Eurosceptic MPs.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a UKIP Euro-MP for the East Midlands, today demands to know
whether that decision will be respected by the leadership.

His letter, which challenges UKIP to decide whether it wants to dominate
political debate or remain "on the political fringe", was matched by a formal
appeal from Kilroy-Silk backers for Mr Knapman to call a leadership election.

Mr Knapman, now one of UKIP's 12 Euro-MPs, was elected unopposed in 2002. But
Damian Hockney, UKIP's group leader on the Greater London Assembly, said: "The
only way to clear the air is for Roger to submit himself to a full vote of the
membership."

Mr Kilroy-Silk will this week press ahead with his determination to fight all
seats by making a speech in the Wokingham constituency of John Redwood, the Tory
shadow cabinet member who is credited with detaching UKIP's main financial
backer, Paul Sykes, from the party earlier this month.

Ahead of last week's meeting of UKIP Euro-MPs in Brussels, The Daily Telegraph
understood that the party leadership had been considering threatening Mr
Kilroy-Silk with expulsion if he continued to campaign to be leader.

Last night Mr Farage said: "This is spectacularly unhelpful. There will be
considerable anger."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              84 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 18, 2004

KILROY'S UKIP BID

LENGTH: 21 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk has stepped up his bid to take over the UK Independence Party
by calling for a debate on its future.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              85 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 18, 2004, Monday

Not such a jolly good Fellowes

BYLINE: Paul Hoggart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 23

LENGTH: 734 words


What a difference an Oscar makes. Since Julian Fellowes won one for the script
of Gosford Park, he's been popping up everywhere. And good luck to him. It just
proves that it's never too late and so on.

He appeared on BBC One's political show This Week recently, praising his pal
Michael Howard's leadership of the Tories. We are all entitled to our opinions,
but I did wonder why a specialist knowledge of Edwardian aristocratic etiquette
qualifies you to pontificate on politics. Being famous is enough in itself these
days. Next week: David Beckham on Charles Kennedy...or Kilroy on the future of
the UKIP!

Factual programmes rely more and more on loveably idiosyncratic presenters, and
the quest for these precious creatures is unending. So it was probably
inevitable that Mr Fellowes should get a turn. He may be a roaring snob, but he
is perky and chummy and looks like an overgrown cherub. What fun! Sadly,
however, A Most Mysterious Murder: The Case of Charles Bravo (BBC One, Saturday)
was rather dreary.

Fellowes took us back to the Priory, a Victorian pile in Balham where, in 1876,
Mr Bravo died in agony after swallowing antimony. It was a nasty little story.

Florence, a wealthy widow, spurned by society and committing adultery with her
doctor, married the handsome upstart Bravo, who was only after her property and
proceeded to abuse her and mistreat her staff. Almost everyone in her circle had
a motive to bump him off, but the case was left open for lack of evidence. No
wonder Agatha Christie took an interest.

One problem was the way they used Fellowes himself. Apart from the corny script
- the Priory is "a strange, unquiet place", apparently -he was supposed to
wander through the rooms, watching events, a spectral observer from another
realm. The camera would swing round from a dramatised marital row, and there
would be Fellowes lurking in the doorway, like a nosy errand-boy who had found
the back door open. "What are you doing there? Go away!" seemed a natural
response. Usually he would move the narrative on a little, but sometimes he just
lurked. Unquiet, perhaps, but not unquiet enough.

Then there were the reconstructions, which were plodding, unconvincing and
uninvolving. Anyway, the whole point of this dramatised game of Cluedo was to
speculate from the fragments of known fact. The more the actors tried to give
their performances a bit of welly, the more they forced a particular
interpretation.

In CSI: Crime Scene Investigation they deal with this by playing out the
multiple hypotheses in grainy dumb-show. It can be very effective and, even
though it is set in contemporary Las Vegas, more eerily Gothicke than something
that looks like discarded footage from the latest Trollope adaptation. For what
it's worth Fellowes's own theory is that Bravo was slowly poisoning Florence
with the antimony and drank it himself by mistake. Better luck next time,
Julian.

You can see why they grabbed Francesco da Mosto to present Venice (BBC Two,
Saturday). This suave, handsome and charming Venetian aristocrat could have been
invented by the authoress of a novel entitled Gondola to Bliss. He is the
Venetian equivalent of that French smoothichops in the old Cointreau adverts who
made his English girlfriend's "ass (ice) melt". "Venice 'eez a temple to
romance, pashonne an' byoaty," he purred, causing, no doubt, much jellyfication
of the knees among the BBC's many female executives.

Still, it is a glorious coffee-table book of a programme, full of gorgeous
images of the city's decaying splendour. The history itself is extraordinary,
and Da Mosto takes an entertaining interest in its darker side. It's been a long
eventful journey for the citizens of the medieval republic, from humble
fishermen to rich merchants to rippers-off of tourists.

I love Harry Hill's humour, but I also know plenty of people who find him
annoying and silly. This might explain the audience shots in An Audience with
Harry Hill (ITV1, Saturday). For every invited celebrity creased in dutiful
mirth, there was another one sitting there po-faced. Personally I would have
enjoyed it more if I had not heard many of the gags when I went to a recording
of Harry Hill's TV Burp last year. He was evidently using the gaps between
filming to hone his routine.

Comics, like presenters, must work on their persona, and this takes much
practice.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

I'D LIKE TO SAY SORRY FOR THIS BEING ANOTHER PIECE ABOUT APOLOGIES. BUT I CAN'T

BYLINE: DOM JOLY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 667 words


There's something in the air. Suddenly everyone's apologising for everything.
Well, not quite everyone but most people.

David Beckham claimed that people didn't rate him as intelligent enough to
commit a foul on purpose to clear his yellow card status. Sadly, he wasn't
bright enough to keep quiet about it and so now, having had to apologise, looks
rather stupid anyway. Even Posh sounded vaguely apologetic about the fact that,
not only had she not written her autobiography but that she hadn't even read it.
Only Blair ponces around hinting that he could apologise or that he wouldn't
mind apologising but never actually does so.

Contrition is the new brown. In light of this I thought that I might take this
opportunity to apologise for a few things myself. Not being a Catholic I don't
have the benefit of an anonymous confession in which to offload my sins, so I
might as well do it here.

I'd first like to apologise to the spotty youth at Whiteley's cinema for having
to endure being called a "tosser" by my four-year-old daughter when she heard
that we had arrived one day too early to see A Shark's Tale. In her defence I
can only say that he did look like a bit of a tosser and she learnt the word
from me but I wasn't up for a fight.

Second, I'd like to say sorry to my mum for secretly filming her on her doorstep
while I was disguised as a man of 77 pretending to be canvassing for the UK
Independence Party. I would like to apologise but I won't since I had to cut the
conversation short when it became apparent that she was not averse to some of
their policies.

I am also feeling slightly apologetic about reassuring my daughter over the
urban myth that public swimming pools have a purple dye that appears round you
if you pee in the water. I should apologise to her because it is clearly not an
urban myth and, although we managed to get out of the place unscathed they still
have my shoes and I want them back.

I also think it might be apt to apologise to my milkman. I was not to know that
my wife had started ordering a delivery while I was off "filming" in Las Vegas.

It came as something of a shock to me when, as I was pottering about the
flowerbeds early one morning doing my usual nude gardening routine, I heard a
noise from the main gate. I'm afraid that I rather acted on instinct and the
rake was leaning against the wall just near by. In retrospect I should have
asked questions first or even noticed the milk float, but the old red mist came
down and I was temporarily out of control. I have tried to visit him in hospital
but his wife wouldn't even let me see him.

While we're really clearing the decks I suppose I had better apologise for
writing "Greg Dyke is bent" on a motorway bridge over the M1. I was really drunk
after a wrap party and, having got a bit lost on my Vespa, decided to daub the
offending slogan because I'd just read yet another of his interminable "matey"
emails that he used to bore people with at the Beeb.

Not a great excuse really, but there you are. I wasn't responsible for "M Khan
is bent" - that was someone else, I promise.

One last thing and this is a bit tricky. but better get it over with. At the
time of that last big Countryside Alliance march in London I didn't join the
hordes of Barboured protesters up in the big smoke. I took the opportunity of my
village being completely empty to go on a bit of a burgling spree.

I didn't get much, just a couple of DVD players, a small dog and a 12- piece
china teaset. If anyone wants their stuff back then come and get it, but I'm
afraid the dog's had its chips. Not my fault. We were off baiting badgers and he
really pissed one off and got a good kicking which he sadly didn't survive.

Right, I think that's pretty much everything. I'm aware that I could apologise
for all these things and that I really should apologise for them. As it is, I'm
not actually going to apologise for them, but the sentiment is there so that's
the main thing.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 165 words


I'm going to be real positive while I keep my foot on John Kerry's throat

George Bush US President, to guests at a private lunch before his final
television debate with his challenger for the White House

Talk of invoking the Parliament Act is like declaring a state of emergency over
a stretch of fog on the M4

Tony Wright MP on government plans to force anti-hunting laws through Parliament

If he does become leader, he'll need to tone down the fake tan, rethink that odd
hairstyle, and look a good deal less smug

Carole Caplin lifestyle guru, on the UKIP figurehead Robert Kilroy-Silk

I am sure some people do not think I have the brains to be that clever. But I do

David Beckham footballer, admitting that he deliberately got himself booked for
a foul in England's match against Wales last Saturday

You could see that Harrods Food Hall had yielded up its dead

Jonathan Miller polymath, describing the audience at his recent production of
Cosi Fan Tutte

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              88 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

Intolerance is at its most dangerous on the left

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 1171 words


At least we have gleaned something useful from the European Union this last
week.

We now know the rude Italian word for gay. It's culattone -derived, apparently,
from the noun culo, meaning bum. It was uttered by a thick peasant -the Italian
government minister Mirko Tremaglia. "Thick peasant" is partly my description of
Signor Tremaglia and partly his own. I will leave you to work out which is
which.

Tremaglia was bemoaning the treatment of his colleague, Rocco Buttiglione, who
almost everybody in Brussels wishes to prevent becoming the European justice
commissioner. Buttiglione is a former supporter of Mussolini and a religious
fundamentalist.

He believes that homosexuality is a sin and women should confine themselves to
the kitchen and the bedroom. Presumably he also believes in the Immaculate
Conception and the unquestionable infallibility of that elderly Polish chap in
the Vatican.

Buttiglione was appointed justice commissioner by Jose Manuel Barroso, the
incoming president of the commission and another representative of the
growlingly macho, if sexually somewhat ambivalent, south of Europe.

All hell then broke loose because of Buttiglione's views about culattoni.
Europe's socialists, hailing largely from the cold-blooded north, are
threatening to vote down the commission unless Buttiglione is deprived of his
post.

It may well be that, like me, you believe Buttiglione's views to be stupid and
quite possibly offensive. On the other hand you may be part of the majority of
EU citizens -particularly now we are graced with the presence of Hungary and
Poland and the unrepentant gypsy baiters of Slovakia -who swallow whole such
antediluvian rot. Once again I am only guessing that Buttiglione's views are
shared by a majority of EU citizens.

But if you are a Roman Catholic, a Muslim, an Orthodox Jew or a Protestant of
almost any hue, including our own, sweetly vacillating Church of England, then
what Buttiglione said is no more and no less than the straightforward party
line.

Homosexuality is a sin but not a crime, is what Buttiglione averred.

So now we have a situation where a politician can be blocked from holding office
because he happens to adhere to a view shared by the majority of the electorate.

Or, at the very least, a sizeable minority of it. It's becoming a rather
familiar situation.

There is intolerance and there is intolerance. There is the dumb intolerance of
the religious right and there is the new, vaulting, even more suffocating
intolerance of the liberal left. Which is more dangerous?

Here, by way of an answer, is another guess: Buttiglione and his supporters
would not attempt to disbar from office a politician on account of that
politician's homosexuality, no matter how much they objected to it. Has
Buttiglione yet registered a complaint about that exciting Bruxelles arriviste,
P Mandelson? But the left -well, the left has taken intolerance to a whole new
level.

Transgress the narrow boundaries of the left-liberal manifesto on a whole bunch
of issues -race, gender politics, human rights, overseas aid and so on -and you
will not be argued with, your views will not be challenged. They'll simply stop
you trying to have your say, insisting your point of view is not merely wrong,
but "unacceptable" and therefore should not be heard. Even -or maybe
particularly - if the majority of the electorate agrees with you.

Partly this is a result of the old leftist tendency to insist that the personal
is the political and that therefore a human being is indivisible from his or her
beliefs. And so, rather than counter the belief with argument they persecute the
individual. Partly it is through a fear of actually engaging with the tricksy
arguments themselves: it is altogether easier to attack the individual -to take
out the man, rather than the ball, as it were.

But partly, too, it is evidence of an insufferable arrogance, the arrogance of a
political hegemony whose views must not be challenged. If they are, then the
people who do the challenging are either mad or bad and in either case should be
sacked or prevented from speaking.

Remember the furore a few years back when the people of Austria saw fit to elect
Jorg Haider's right-wing populist party to form part of its government? Never
mind the good ol' notion of electoral mandate: Austria was briefly threatened
with expulsion from the EU. In future, its people were told, vote differently or
face the consequences.

Back here in Burnley two years ago the electorate was told it had made a grave
mistake by voting for the British National party and informed that nobody would
work with the elected BNP councillors. More recently David Blunkett, the home
secretary, has suggested that maybe it would be a good idea if civil servants
were banned from joining the BNP and BNP members disbarred from working for the
civil service. Well, why not? And after the BNP, how about UKIP members?

Nor is this intolerance directed solely towards the white right. Dr Yusuf
al-Qaradawi thinks homosexuals are going to have a rough time of it when
eventually they meet Allah. Not as rough a time of it as the Jews, maybe, but
pretty bad. Within the wider Muslim world his views are, alas, unremarkable, but
there were howls of protest from the left when he came to Britain to expound his
Stone Age thesis.

He should not have been allowed in, we were told, because we don't like what
he's saying. To the government's credit, on this occasion it resisted the
temptation to turn him back at Heathrow, a temptation to which it nonetheless
succumbed with another incendiary black Muslim speaker, Louis Farrakhan.

And here's another, very different, example. Just last week the prime minister
decided he was in favour of controls on the marketing of unhealthy foods. He
said: "We will look carefully at measures that protect young children from
pressures to make unhealthy choices, such as those from the excessive
advertising of foods high in sugar, salt and fat."

Commercials for fatty foods might be banned during children's television
programmes. There you are: "pressures to make unhealthy choices". It is not the
children he is talking about, it's the adults faced with demands from their
children. Blair doesn't trust adults to make the right decisions. So,
effectively, he'll make the right decisions for them and in the process gag the
advertisers.

Of course we all want our children to eat more healthily. Just as we might wish
that Buttiglione and Tremaglia weren't in high office. Just as we wish people
such as al-Qaradawi would shut their idiotic mouths and the BNP would disappear.

And so perhaps we are not outraged when the authorities act in a plainly
authoritarian manner and silence these voices on our behalf. But we should be
outraged, shouldn't we? You attack the idea, not the individual. Right now those
two thick Italian peasants have become martyrs in the cause of political
correctness. Is that what we wanted?


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

'Haemorrhage' of Tory votes

SECTION: Features; News; 20

LENGTH: 185 words


I MUST congratulate Michael Portillo for his excellent article (Comment, last
week). As the director of a UK-wide race relations charity, we were a little
hopeful during Michael Howard's first days, when he seemed to making the effort
to find points of resonance with black communities and anti-racism (visits to
Burnley and speeches against the BNP for example).

But just recently his old adviser must have been swapped with a Tory faithful
because he is coming out with the most stupidly alienating stuff for these same
black communites (withdrawal from the Geneva convention, rescinding on the
duties to record stop and search, playing keeping-up with UKIP etc).

He plays his "I am the son of an immigrant" card but he has no idea what it is
to be permanently stuck with the label of immigrant (when it equals black), even
when you are third generation and playing golf.

Yet he wants the label as if it gives him street cred -without, of course,
citizenship classes and being asked frequently if he has fully integrated or
having ID checks. Karen Chouhan Director 1990 Trust, London


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

Perilous

SECTION: Features; News; 20

LENGTH: 132 words


PERILOUS: Portillo writes cleverly and convincingly, and (dare I say it?) he's
probably sincere, but he's wrong. Tory strategy is not principally concerned
with attracting votes -the party's situation is more perilous than that. It is
principally concerned with preventing a loss of votes -namely a massive
haemhorrhage of votes to UKIP.

This, anyway, is, and has long been, the core function of the Conservative party
within the Lib-Lab-Con EU cartel -to soak up and obliterate any genuinely
patriotic grouping which might appear on the cartel's flank. Portillo's rather
masterful analysis of what the Tories would be (but are not) doing, if this were
not the case, only serves to confirm that it is the case.

Steve Reed UKIP Chairman (Somerset) Glastonbury, Somerset


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Haemorrhage' of Tory votes; Letter

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 17, 2004, Sunday

UKIP NUT ON STUDENT: ISN'T SHE THE MOST DELICIOUS BIMBETTE? UTTERLY THICK BUT
GOOD T**S

BYLINE: EUAN STRETCH

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 342 words

HIGHLIGHT: Bloom is under fire; WHISTLEBLOWER: Rebecca Bowtell yesterday


CONTROVERSIAL Euro MP Godfrey Bloom has been accused of making drunken sexual
advances and lewd comments to a group of female students.

Mr Bloom, 54 - a member of the UK Independence Party - is said to have tried to
touch members of Cambridge University women's rugby team and grabbed the thigh
of one woman on a trip to Brussels.

He is also said to have made a string of sexist comments during a three-hour
dinner in the city's Belga Queen restaurant.

At one stage it is claimed he pointed out a girl to a male friend and said:
"Isn't she the most delicious bimbette? Absolutely thick, but good tits."

The allegations against Mr Bloom - who caused a row last year by saying women
should stay home and clean behind the fridge - were made by politics student
Rebecca Bowtell, 21.

Mr Bloom strongly denies the accusations and says they are
politically-motivated.

Rebecca says the incidents took place last month when the team were invited on a
two-day trip to Brussels by Mr Bloom, who has sponsored them for 10 years. She
claims during the meal he asked her: "Does it bother you that I'm very old and
very rich?" She also says he described a member of the team as "pretty and
feisty". "He was being incredibly lecherous and kept trying to feel my thigh. I
said to him, 'If you do that I will hit you'. "He tried it on with a lot of the
girls. He kept grabbing them and making comments. He tried to grab me a couple
of times. He touched my leg under the table." Miss Bowtell said she had
complained to UKIP MEP Nigel Farage.

Yesterday Mr Bloom denied lewd comments or touching any girls. He dismissed the
claims as "absolutely ridiculous" adding that his wife Katryna, 42, and
Cambridge women's rugby director Rachel Shaw were with him that evening. "This
is an absolute fabrication. How one young woman is able to make these
allegations, totally uncorroborated, three weeks after the trip, is beyond me.

"Many women who went to Brussels will vouch that these things simply did not
happen."

news@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              92 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 16, 2004

SQUATTER WHO HAS MADE £700,000 BY SELLING THE PLACE

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady Property Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 445 words


A SQUATTER called Rainbow George beamed yesterday as he revealed that he had
found a crock of gold.

The 64-year-old eccentric said he had sold his mews house for £710,000.

That's not a bad deal - for he has occupied the upmarket home rent-free for 21
years.

Now George Weiss plans to set up a new political party and a magazine with his
windfall.

He won ownership of his onebedroom squat in Hampstead, north London, from his
landlord Stephen Hardisty in May. He claimed squatters' rights under laws that
say a property becomes the tenant's if a landlord has not made contact for 12
years.

George said: "I've never owned a property and I am not going to own one for
long. It will mean I lose social security benefits and I don't even have a bank
account."

For 21 years Mr Weiss lived on the breadline. His home was in one of London's
most salubrious streets but behind the front door was a damp and dilapidated
squat.

He watched the building crumble around him, damaged almost beyond repair by rain
that gushed through the house every time there was a downpour.

But now the peace activist, a former Scrabble partner of tycoon Charles Saatchi
and friend of the late comedian Peter Cook, who lived a few yards away, has hit
the jackpot. George, who has called for the creation of a united Britain and
Ireland called the Emerald Rainbow Isles, began renting the property in 1969 for
£65 a month.

Mr Hardisty, who lives in Winchester, had allowed him to live rent-free since
1983. The landlord once tried to evict George but he had not been in contact
since 1990 following a dispute over roof repairs. Now Mr Weiss plans to use the
money from the house sale to set up a political party with his friend Ronnie
Carroll, the Fifties crooner, as a rival to Ukip.

"We're calling our party the Wonderfully Egalitarian Association of Creative
Thinkers, " said George. "Our slogan will be Ukip - Weact."

Mr Weiss, who was once linked to the Monster Raving Loony Party, fielded
69-year-old Ronnie as a candidate at the Hartlepool by-election last month. The
singer received just 45 votes, but he deflected attention from his poor
performance by singing Danny Boy to rapturous applause.

George's plans for his new wealth including setting up a magazine called
Goodbye, featuring celebrities who have died and the homes in which they once
lived.

His windfall will help his friend's musical aspirations, too.

Ronnie, who flew the Eurovision flag for Britain in both 1962 and 1963, said
George was paying for him to get back into the recording studio to work on a new
album with the Gilad Atzmon Quartet, an award-winning jazz ensemble.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              93 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 16, 2004

Tories will ditch EU treaties, Redwood tells Ukip

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 323 words


John Redwood has claimed that the Tories will unilaterally withdraw Britain from
its EU agreements, such as fisheries and agriculture, if it is unable to
negotiate an agreed exit with its EU partners.

The shadow cabinet member for deregulation made the suggestion in an email to
members of Ukip; on the surface it indicates he is willing to see a Tory
government tear up its EU treaty obligations.

Under EU rules, Britain could only withdraw from the fisheries and CAP
agreements if none of the other 24 member states objected.

Mr Redwood wrote: "We will expect to win them (the powers) back by
renegotiation. But if they refuse, we will amend the 1972 European Communities
Act to take them back unilaterally. Easy isn't it?"

Denis MacShane, the Europe minister, said: "It is now Conservative party policy
to pass national legislation which would mean Britain would be in breach of its
solemn European Union treaty obligations as legislated by parliament.

"EU treaties constitute the binding international law allowing British firms to
trade freely across 25 nations.

"Mr Redwood's action would either lead to massive fines from the European court
of justice, or to Britain being obliged to quit the EU."

In a letter to Mr Redwood, he says: "Your email represents a fundamental
crossing of the line that separates legitimate criticism of EU policies to the
unilateral policy of being willing to breach the EU treaties and quit the EU."

Sir Stephen Wall, a former British ambassador to the EU, also challenged Mr
Redwood's approach, saying "civil servants are under obligation not to carry out
any act that would be illegal.

"And we could find ourselves before the European court facing very swingeing
fines; I think it would be the first time that a British government had
effectively torn up a treaty - that's normally something which dictatorships do,
not normally something which democracies do."


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 16, 2004

We'll bin EU treaties, Redwood tells Ukip

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 478 words


John Redwood, has claimed the Tories will unilaterally withdraw Britain from its
European Union agreements such as fisheries and agriculture, if it is unable to
negotiate an agreed exit with its EU

partners.

The shadow cabinet member for deregulation said this in an email to members of
Ukip; on the surface it suggests he is willing to see a Tory government tear up
its EU treaty obligations.

Under EU rules, Britain could only withdraw from the fisheries and CAP
agreements if none of the other 24 member states objected.

Mr Redwood wrote: iWe will expect to win them (the powers)

back by renegotiation. But if they refuse, we will amend the 1972 European
Communities Act to take them back unilaterally. Easy isn't it?i

Alan Milburn, Labour's election coordinator, said the email was a further sign
of how far Michael Howard was taking his party to the right.

Denis MacShane, the Europe minister, claimed: iIt is now

Conservative party policy to pass national legislation which would mean Britain
would be in breach of its solemn European Union treaty obligations as legislated
by parliament.

iEU treaties constitute the binding international law allowing British firms to
trade freely across 25 nations.

iMr Redwood's action would either lead to massive fines from the European court
of justice, or to Britain being obliged to quit the EU.i

In a letter to Mr Redwood, he suggests: iYour email represents a fundamental
crossing of the line that separates legitimate criticism of EU policies to the
unilateral policy of being willing to

breach the EU treaties and quit the EU.i

Sir Stephen Wall, a former British ambassador to the EU, also challenged Mr
Redwood's approach, saying icivil servants are under obligation not to carry out
any act that would be illegal.

iAnd we could find ourselves before the European court facing very swingeing
fines; I think it would be the first time that a British government had
effectively torn up a treaty o that's normally something which dictatorships do,
not normally something which

democracies do.i

Many saw the energetic but strongly sceptic Mr Redwood's return to the shadow
cabinet as a sign Mr Howard felt he needed to harden his anti- European message
to shore up his support against an attack by Ukip.

In an eve of conference setback for Mr Howard, Ukip drove the Conservatives into
fourth place in the Hartlepool byelection.

Subsequently, Tory morale was lifted when Paul Sykes, the chief funder of Ukip,
said he was withdrawing in protest at its putting up a candidate against the
Tories in every seat in next year's general election.

The Conservatives may calculate that the British public is

sufficiently sceptic that it will support strong-arm tactics

against the EU, regardless of the potential for ejection from

the EU altogether.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 16, 2004, Saturday

UKIP MAN IN BRUSSELS FACES HARASSMENT CLAIM AFTER TRYING TO QUASH HIS SEXIST
REPUTATION

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Rebecca Bowtell, a third-year student at
Cambridge University, says she felt intimidated by Godfrey Bloom when she
visited the MEP in Brussels Olivier Hoslett

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 846 words


FOR A politician who urged women to spend more time cleaning behind the fridge,
it was a perfect opportunity to dismiss allegations of sexism.

But the decision by the UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom to invite a group of female
students to Brussels backfired spectacularly yesterday, when one accused him of
sexual harassment, misogyny, and use of offensive language.

In a formal letter of protest, Rebecca Bowtell, from Cambridge University, makes
a litany of complaints against Mr Bloom and claims she witnessed the MEP
"sexually harassing a number of women, and making a constant stream of sexist
and misogynistic remarks."

Ms Bowtell, who is women's officer at Robinson College but says she belongs to
no political party, claims she felt intimidated, and has threatened to refer the
matter to the Belgian police. The alleged incident took place at a dinner in a
restaurant in Brussels when members of the Cambridge University Women's Rugby
Club, which is sponsored by Mr Bloom, were invited to visit the European
Parliament.

In a letter of complaint to the president of the European Parliament, Josep
Borrell, Ms Bowtell says: "Mr Bloom asked a colleague Isn't she the most
delicious bimbette? Absolutely thick, but good tits'. Of the businesswoman who
he had invited to share the platform at the next day's press conference, Mr
Bloom had only four words: big tits, very feisty'."

Mr Bloom came to prominence in June when, newly elected to the European
Parliament, he said he wanted to deal with women's issues because: "I just don't
think they clean behind the fridge enough".

Since then he has revelled in his status as unofficial high priest of political
incorrectness. But the allegations are damaging for UKIP which has nominated the
maverick MEP as an alternate member of the women's rights committee of the
European Parliament.

Last night Mr Bloom denied indulging in any sexual harassment, specifically
rejecting the claim that he touched the student's leg, and said he would consult
lawyers on the issue. He added: "I was not sitting at her table. My wife was at
the dinner, there was no impropriety. The whole thing is complete and total
nonsense. It has been concocted. She is following a political agenda. It was a
grotesque abuse of hospitality."

However he did not deny making all the comments cited and, when asked if he had
said "big tits, very feisty", Mr Bloom replied: "Possibly".

Rachel Shaw, director of the rugby club who attended the dinner, came to his
defence arguing: "Godfrey says some risque things, he is off-the- wall, but he
has huge respect for women. There is no way Godfrey would compromise himself or
his wife. And if I had seen anything that would have compromised the university
I would have leapt in to stop it ."

Ironically, the students' visit to Brussels was designed to show how Cambridge
University rugby club backed Mr Bloom and supported his views that
anti-discrimination laws ended up deterring businesses from employing young
women.

Jens-Peter Bonde, co-president of the Independence and Democracy political
grouping in which UKIP sits, promised a full investigation and said: "Sexual
harassment is not permitted. I have not yet seen the letter but I take any
allegations of sexual harassment seriously and will investigate it." Mr
Borrell's office is expected to take up the matter.

Ms Bowtell says that she believed the visit to Brussels was funded by the MEP
himself, but later discovered that it was paid for by the European Parliament
which funds visits which, by convention, are for constituents.

She argues: "As none of us are actually Mr Bloom's constituents, my first
complaint against him is that he is misusing EU funds to further his own ends,
in this instance a PR exercise involving the Cambridge University Women's Rugby
Team."

When challenged about his views, Ms Bowtell says the MEP warned "that he didn't
want to be fucked around" and "regaled his listeners with tales of the
journalists, and even fellow MEPs he had threatened with physical violence". She
added: "I felt intimidated."

The letter says Mr Bloom's conversation "is littered with sexist, misogynistic
remarks, and these are intimidating to the women he encounters. When I am able
to secure testimony from others who were present I will seriously consider
referring this matter to the Belgian police."

Ms Bowtell insisted last night that she approached the meeting with an open mind
and had no political agenda. "I definitely did not go with my mind made up," she
said.

Richard Howitt, Labour MEP for Cambridgeshire, said: "Mr Bloom has no business
in offering subsidised visits for my constituents to the EU. Mr Bloom is
reported to have said that Ms Bowtell could not be expected to understand him.
It must be true that Mr Bloom is misunderstood because his views make no sense
and have no value in the modern world.

"The accusations of sexual harassment have to be taken seriously and I encourage
all witnesses from the visit to make their evidence available to the Belgian
police."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              96 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 16, 2004, Saturday

'Unilateralist' Redwood

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 108 words


LABOUR has accused the Tories of heading for departure from the European Union
(David Charter writes).

In an e-mail written last week and broadcast on Today on BBC Radio 4 yesterday,
John Redwood, the Conservative frontbencher, apparently explained how his party
could recover certain powers from Brussels. The e-mail quoted him as saying: "We
will expect to win them back by renegotiation. But if they refuse, we will amend
the 1972 European Communities Act to take them back unilaterally. Easy, isn't
it?"

Denis MacShane, the Europe Minister, said: "John Redwood has crossed the Rubicon
into UK Independence Party territory."


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 16, 2004, Saturday

The way forward in pensions reform

SECTION: Features; 31

LENGTH: 80 words


From Sir Patrick Moore, FRS

Sir, This is a "crisis" which can be resolved at a stroke. We pay £30 million
per day into Europe. Withdraw from the EU, and we have all the money needed for
pensions.

Only the UKIP is ready to do this. Remember this at the next election!

Yours faithfully, PATRICK MOORE, Farthings, 39 West Street, Selsey, West Sussex
PO20 9AD.

Latitude 500 43' 49.25" N, Longitude 000 41' 41.25" W.

October 14.

Money Letters, page 2


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 15, 2004

Leading article: Political debate: Bring it on

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 349 words


It is a cliche of newspaper leader columns that they conclude by calling for a
national debate. For a change, this leader will begin by calling for one. Voters
in Britain, having watched the three enthralling Bush-Kerry presidential
debates, may wonder why there are no similar televised showdowns between their
party leaders. There are good reasons why not. America has a long history of
such debates, going back to the epic Douglas-Lincoln contests of 1858, dubbed
"the most famous war of words in history". In contrast, the British style has
been solitary speeches to mass audiences, notably Gladstone's barnstorming
Midlothian campaign in 1879.

More importantly, British voters don't get to choose between Tony Blair or
Michael Howard directly. Instead they vote for local MPs, making a debate
between party leaders constitutionally (if not practically) irrelevant. Then
there is the wider political spectrum here - instead of a Republican or Democrat
duopoly, British voters can for example choose between Labour, Lib Dem, Tory,
Sinn Fein, Plaid Cymru, SDLP, SNP or Democratic Unionists, depending on where
they live, not to mention Ukip and others. That makes it harder to say exactly
who deserves to debate who.

The most telling argument against a Blair-Howard election debate is that it
encourages presidential-style politics at a time when parliamentary democracy is
struggling. But beware of making the best the enemy of the good. A leaders'
debate, in whatever form, would engage voters and increase public awareness - a
vital consideration as turnout fades. Carefully moderated contests, of 90
minutes or more, would force the leaders to discuss policy, rather than indulge
in yah-booism. To avoid creeping presidentialism, we suggest holding a series of
three debates: one between the three major party leaders, a second between the
chancellor and two shadow chancellors, and a third between the home secretary
and rivals, all to be broadcast live by the BBC. Similar debates could also be
held simultaneously in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Bring it on.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 15, 2004
                              Correction Appended

Knife-edge in north-east referendum: Prescott leads star line-up urging regional
autonomy

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington, Regional affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1094 words


Well away from television cameras, the media, and troublesome hunting
supporters, John Prescott has spent the last three days on the campaign trail
pushing his pet project.

Microphone in one hand and leaflets in the other, he has hopped unannounced from
cities to market towns with the message that England's most northerly region
should chart its own destiny.

Unscripted and sometimes off-message, he has mixed it with voters from
Sunderland, to Consett and Hexham, occasionally throwing caution to the wind and
railing against a Whitehall machine he clearly mistrusts. "You've got an
historic opportunity to take back control held by civil servants in London," he
tells shoppers. "The people in the north-east know more about their communities
than anyone else, understand the problems and strengths of their area."

But the slogan on Labour's white battle bus betrays a little nervousness in the
run-up to the country's first regional devolution referendum, on which the
deputy prime minister has staked considerable credibility: "This is your chance
- let's not waste it."

In four days' time, 1.9 million electors will begin receiving voting papers for
an all-postal referendum to determine whether the north-east should have an
elected assembly, broadly similar to the Greater London authority. But Mr
Prescott is still haggling with sceptical Cabinet colleagues over the powers it
should have.

More than anything, this is his grand project and a yes vote - counting takes
place on November 4 - would crown a long political career in which he has often
been a lone champion of English devolution. But three months ago he was forced
to "postpone" plans for other referendums in the north-west and in Yorkshire
after a rebellion by backbench Labour MPs. They feared a bruising devolution
battle in marginal seats would undermine the party six months before a likely
general election.

Although Labour's old north- east heartland was seen as a safer bet, polls have
shown that about a quarter of voters are undecided, with one survey in a local
paper this week giving the no campaign the edge.

Mr Prescott will return to the stump next week in the knowledge that his project
is resting on a knife-edge amid indications that the campaign is finally
exciting the electorate.

Referendum broadcasts began last night on regional television. The first, a
four-minute offering from the North East Says No campaign (Nesno) - directed by
an official from a rightwing London thinktank - unashamedly took its cue from
negative US-style campaigning. Nesno has backing from the Tories and the UK
Independence party.

A series of images portrayed senior Labour MPs beside the headline "Politicians
have let us down". It was followed with the exhortation "Vote no to just more
politicians" and then "Politicians talk, we pay" - a reference to the costs of
the proposed assembly. It will be able to place a levy on council taxpayers,
initially around 5%.

Although a north-east industrialist, John Elliott, chairs the no campaign, it is
led by James Frayne, campaign director of the New Frontiers Foundation, which
describes itself as a "free market think-tank which grew out of Business for
Sterling", the anti-euro campaign.

Mr Elliott and Mr Frayne acknowledge that their opponents, the cross-party Yes
for the North East campaign, have the slick publicity, and a string of local
personalities.

Featuring in the second broadcast tonight, they range from the former Olympic
athlete Brendan Foster to Sir John Hall, president of Newcastle United, Ray
Mallon, the mayor of Middlesbrough, and Steve Gibson, chairman of Middlesbrough
FC.

"We have a very strong message and they've won the celebrity battle," Mr Frayne
said. "We are at war with a very well-funded establishment organisation, and
they're playing with emotion - not facts."

Ross Forbes, director of Yes for the North East, who lives near Newcastle and
has worked in business and in the media, accuses his opponents of "trading on
fears". He is not downhearted by the polls. "It's perfectly winnable, but don't
forget that this referendum is absolutely unprecedented. The cost of a no vote
is very high."

Across the region, debates have underlined a deep polarisation among electors.

Sir John Hall, a key speaker, found it hard to contain his passion. "There isn't
anyone speaking up for this area, like Ken Livingstone in London," he thundered.
"The rest of the country is moving faster ahead than we are and we have to do
something."

Next week, on cue, Ken Livingstone is likely to join the call for a yes vote.

Issues confronting the voters

* Voting Electors face two questions: yes or no to a proposed assembly; and
deciding on a new form of unitary, or single-tier, local government in the
two-tier counties of Northumberland and Durham. They will be presented with two
options: retaining the counties as new all-purpose councils, or breaking them up
into two and three unitary councils.

* Referendum funding Both yes and no campaigns will receive £100,000 each from
the taxpayer, through the Electoral Commission. They can spend up to £550,000 on
top of this - but, in reality, the yes campaign says it will be spending at
least £100,000 more and the no camp about £50,000 extra, although it says it is
receiving "payment in kind" from Tories, Ukip and other sources.

* Timetable A yes vote on November 4 would need legislation to create an elected
body of 25 members. Assuming Labour is returned to power, John Prescott says
elections for a full assembly could be held by 2006.

* Control: A system of partial proportional representation is likely to break
Labour's north-east hegemony.

* Powers A key area of dispute. Broadly, the assembly will oversee strategic
planning, housing, economic development, and a new regional fire and rescue
service. Mr Prescott is fighting to get transport functions, similar to those
carried out by the Greater London Authority. Critics complain the powers on
offer are so weak that they are not worth having. Supporters say an assembly
would still be a powerful advocate for the north-east and punch above its
weight.

* Cost An assembly would get up to £30m a year, mostly from the government. But
it would also be able to levy council taxpayers - initially, to the tune of 5p
in the pound.

* Location Almost certainly the city of Durham, to avoid accusations of a
Tyneside bias. Devolution supporters say there will be no need for a new
building as there is plenty of empty office space.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2004

CORRECTION:  In a panel accompanying a report about the possibility of
devolution for the north-east of England, page 13, October 15, we said a
regional assembly would "get up to £30m a year, mostly from the government".
That referred to running costs. Any assembly, according to a recent government
booklet delivered to every household, would "directly control spending of around
£500m, mostly from government grant".

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk fights on after slapdown

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 311 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk refused to abandon his bid for the leadership of the UK
Independence Party yesterday, despite warnings from fellow Euro-MPs that his
ambitions could wreck the party.

UKIP leaders attempted to defuse the crisis at a two-and-half-hour meeting in
Brussels after reports that the former television star faced expulsion if he
persisted in trying to take over the movement.

"It was an amicable meeting, full of humour," said Nigel Farage, the campaign
chairman, who insisted that Mr Kilroy-Silk remained a huge asset to the party.

"There was no reading of the riot act, or any such thing, although there were
legitimate differences about future direction," he said.

"It was made clear that Roger Knapman will continue to lead UKIP until his term
runs out in two years. In the meantime, we're looking for the right role for
Robert."

Those at the meeting in the European parliament said Mr Kilroy-Silk listened
quietly as speaker after speaker - many of whom owed their election to his star
appeal - implored him to put party unity before personal ambitions.

But he gave no clear signal that he would drop his leadership bid going into the
general election next year.

Mr Kilroy-Silk failed to win the clear backing of the party's committee in his
home region of the East Midlands on Monday night, and faces much stiffer
resistance in the rest of the country.

One senior official said his attempt to "hijack" a movement he joined only weeks
before the European elections in May had prompted a flood of resignations.

The party lost its chief sponsor, Paul Sykes, after Mr Kilroy-Silk called on
supporters to "kill" the Conservative Party.

The official said: "It should be clear by now that his leadership bid isn't
going anywhere and he needs to shut up for a while . . not behave like a spoilt
child who hasn't got the toy he wanted."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              101 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

SHADOW OVER UKIP AS KILROY-SILK TALKS ON LEADERSHIP FAIL

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Talks to resolve the crisis caused by Robert
Kilroy-Silk's declaration that he wants to take over leadership of UKIP have not
found a solution Barry Batchelor/PA Photo

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 598 words


TALKS TO end a fierce row over Robert Kilroy-Silk's bid for the leadership of
the UK Independence Party broke up without a deal last night, casting a shadow
over the party's run-up to the general election.

The meeting in Brussels follows growing disquiet among the party's 12 MEPs over
Mr Kilroy-Silk's public declaration that he wants to lead the party, which
scored a spectacular success in June Euro-elections.

Most UKIP MEPs have rallied around the existing leader, Roger Knapman, who has
made it clear that he intends to remain in his post until 2006.

Many have been alarmed by Mr Kilroy-Silk's call for the party to overtake the
Conservatives, and desire for it to fight all constituencies at the general
election, including those held by Tory Eurosceptic MEPs.

His promise to "kill" the Conservatives is thought to have lead to the
withdrawal of financial backing for UKIP from millionaire Paul Sykes. It also
provoked fears that Mr Kilroy-Silk's aggressive style would deter wavering Tory
supporters.

However, the party's rank and file are conscious of the fact that Mr
Kilroy-Silk's celebrity status as a former daytime TV presenter helped put them
on the political map.

In a statement after last night's meeting at the European Parliament, UKIP's
chief whip Jeffrey Titford described the discussions as "long and amicable" but
added that "strong views were expressed".

He added: "All those involved were, however, concerned that although there were
legitimate differences on the direction that the party should take, nothing
should be done to damage its long-term prospects. It was decided the discussions
would continue in order to arrive at a position that would be in the long-term
interests of the party."

Asked whether the leadership had been debated, Mr Titford replied: "We discussed
certain situations that have been reported recently but did not reach any
conclusions. There were strong opinions on both sides and we were not able to
resolve these."

Mr Kilroy-Silk had nothing to add as he left the meeting, repeating that the
talks had been amicable.

One UKIP source was unconvinced last night, arguing: "It would appear there was
blood on the carpet but they cleared it up before they left the room.

"Kilroy's leadership bid has not gone down well with the MEPs who are about 10:1
against. If he ever wants to become leader the best thing he could do is to get
his head down and get on with the job, and bide his time until there is a
leadership contest in 2006."

Mr Kilroy-Silk argues that the vast majority of members want him as leader. Mr
Knapman has argued that "nobody is bigger than the party" and added: "We are a
political party and not a chat show party. He needs to be a team player."

Experts say that if he wishes to challenge for the post before then, the former
daytime TV host would need the support of 10 per cent of UKIP branch secretaries
- around 43 individuals - to call an extraordinary general meeting, then win a
motion of no-confidence against Mr Knapman.

"If, in the elections we had gone from 12 MEPs to three then there might have
been a case for that," said one critic, "but as it was the other way round it is
hard to see that happening."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's enemies say that he has been offered and declined the post of
deputy leader of the party and the job of running the election campaign. He is
said to have rejected the latter position because he would not have had complete
control of the party manifesto but would have had to liaise with UKIP's National
Executive Committee.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

BLOOD ON THE CARPET' AS KILROY-SILK SLIPS IN LEADERSHIP CHALLENGE

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS With most party members rallying around their
leader Roger Knapman, left, talks to resolve the crisis caused by Robert
Kilroy-Silk's declaration that he wants to take over have not succeeded Barry
Batchelor/PA Photo

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 569 words


THE UK Independence Party met in the heart of the European Union it wants to
leave, to fight a bitter internal battle with the celebrity MEP Robert
Kilroy-Silk, who is bidding for the leadership.

But members emerged from the "amicable" lengthy meeting yesterday without a deal
to accommodate the perma-tanned Mr Kilroy-Silk, who showed no signs of bruising
when he left the European Parliament.

One UKIP source was unconvinced last night, arguing: "It would appear that there
was blood on the carpet but they cleared it up before they left the room.
Kilroy's leadership bid has not gone down well with the MEPs who are about 10:1
against. If he ever wants to become leader the best thing he could do is to get
his head down and get on with the job, and bide his time until there is a
leadership contest in 2006."

The outcome will cast a shadow over the party's run-up to the general election.
The talks took place amid growing disquiet among the party's MEPs over the
former daytime television host's public declarations, including his efforts to
take the helm of the party, which scored a spectacular success in June
Euro-elections.

Most UKIP MEPs have rallied around the existing leader, Roger Knapman, who has
made it clear that he intends to remain in his post until 2006. Many have been
alarmed by Mr Kilroy-Silk's call for the party to overtake the Conservatives,
and desire for it to fight all constituencies at the general election, including
those held by Tory Eurosceptic MEPs.

His promise to "kill" the Conservatives is thought to have led to the withdrawal
of financial backing for UKIP from the millionaire Paul Sykes. It also provoked
fears that Mr Kilroy-Silk's aggressive style would deter wavering Tory
supporters. But the party's rank and file are conscious of the fact that Mr
Kilroy-Silk's celebrity status had helped put them on the political map.

In a statement after last night's meeting at the European Parliament, UKIP's
chief whip, Jeffrey Titford, described the discussions as "long and amicable"
but added that "strong views were expressed". He added: "All those involved
were, however, concerned that although there were legitimate differences on the
direction that the party should take, nothing should be done to damage its
long-term prospects. It was therefore decided that the discussions would
continue in order to arrive at a position that would be in the long-term
interests of the party."

Asked whether the leadership had been debated, Mr Titford replied: "We discussed
certain situations that have been reported recently but did not reach any
conclusions. There were strong opinions on both sides and we were not able to
resolve these. We are going to continue talks over the next few weeks." Mr
Kilroy-Silk had nothing to add as he left the meeting, repeating that the talks
had been amicable. He argues that the vast majority of them want him as leader.

Mr Knapman said that "nobody is bigger than the party" and added: "We are a
political party and not a chat show party. He needs to be a team player."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's enemies say that he has been offered and declined the post of
deputy leader of the party and the job of running the election campaign. He is
said to have rejected the latter position because he would not have had complete
control of the party manifesto but would have had to liaise with UKIP's
executive committee.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              103 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

'In Europe they think it's all going our way'

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 764 words


BRITAIN is winning its way in Brussels, European integration is at "the end of
the road", and the Franco-German axis is seriously weakened, according to Chris
Patten.

"Everyone else thinks it is going in our direction. Everyone else thinks that
the constitution treaty, for example, represented a huge achievement for British
diplomacy. Everyone believes it except us," the European Commissioner for
External Affairs told The Times.

But he remains bewildered by the attitude of his fellow countrymen, and his own
Conservative Party.

"For us to propose throwing out the treaty and opening up all these arguments
again is crazy. It does represent most of the things we have been arguing for.
Why are Fabius and others in France going to campaign against the treaty?
Because they think it is too British."

From his vast 15th floor office, Mr Patten sees a European Union that has become
far closer to the British vision of a looser association of nation states, with
enlargement having effectively killed off the French dream of full political
union.

"The process of economic and political integration is in most respects at the
end of the road. I think we've already agreed to an extraordinary amount to
sovereignty sharing, particularly in economic areas, but you can't, with 25
countries, operate in the same way as with six, nine or twelve.

"This is very different from the original vision. I certainly believe that this
is a different enterprise from the one which is defined by conventional
Europhile rhetoric."

Few things better exemplified the new reality than Britain and its allies
blocking the appointment of France and Germany's chosen candidate for the
European Commission presidency. Britain successfully backed Jose Manuel Barroso,
the pro-US, free-market former Portuguese Prime Minister.

The new Commission now has a definite bias in favour of economic liberals who
favour deregulation, not French-style statists who favour more harmonisation.

This has prompted increasingly talk in France, Germany and Belgium of forming a
"core" group pushing ahead with integration that others will be forced to
follow.

But Mr Patten insists that any such core group posed little threat to British
interests.

"When I am told there is going to be a core group, what they tend to have in
common is a rather lower implementation of Community directives than others, and
at least in the case of two of them, a passionate attachment to the Common
Agricultural Policy. If you define core group in terms of the gap between
rhetoric and implementation...in terms of attachment to agricultural subsidies,
then my response is: some core!"

Mr Patten is clearly happy to be leaving what he calls the "most interesting"
job in the Commission. "I am constantly at the edge of events. But five years is
about enough."

But he will not leave the European issue behind. He is writing a book on the
relationship between Europe and the US, and another on the role of the nation
state in an increasingly globalised world. He has joined the board of the
campaign group Britain in Europe, and will campaign for a "yes" vote in
Britain's referendum on the European Constitution.

He thinks that the Conservative Party he once chaired has not woken up to the
new reality of Europe, preferring to chase the United Kingdom Independence Party
vote with ever more Eurosceptic policies and rhetoric. "The Conservative Party
has lost its marbles on Europe," he says.

It has to "win the middle ground. People think the Tories are more extreme than
Mr Blair and Labour. Does that do us any good? Absolutely not."

The main problem with the EU is not what it actually does, but its failure to
win hearts and minds, he argues. Europeans still feel far more attached to their
national institutions than international ones.

"The problem is the institutions we create to manage the shared sovereignty
haven't yet found a way of commanding the loyalty and affection of the national
institutions. People still have a real sense of tribe and clan, which I don't
disparage, I think it is important."

But he feels the EU is such a resounding success -creating a single market, a
single currency and co-operating on justice and environmental issues -that the
model will be copied around the world.

"It is probably what the world is going to be more like in 30 or 40 years. I see
it in Asean (South East Asia), I see it in the Andean Pact -a growing
recognition that individual nations cannot cope on their own, that they need to
work more closely together."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

Blair rules out televised debate

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 366 words


TONY BLAIR is pre-empting any requests to hold American-style television debates
with Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy at the next election.

The Prime Minister has told aides that there is no chance of him agreeing to
appear alongside rival party leaders in a live TV showdown like those that have
galvanised the US presidential elections in recent weeks.

Disclosure of his decision came amid signs that the BBC, ITV and Sky are once
again clamouring for the chance to screen debates that have long been regarded
as the Holy Grail of election coverage.

The broadcasters are said to have held informal discussions with each other
about the ground rules of such contests. Mr Howard and Mr Kennedy, the leaders
of the Tory and Liberal Democrat parties, have indicated their willingness to
take part.

At the same time Sam Younger, chairman of the Electoral Commission, has told The
Times that he believes that TV debates would help to raise public awareness of
the issues and increase voter turnout.

A senior Downing Street source said yesterday: "The Prime Minister is simply not
going to do this, so anybody hoping to get a head of steam up should forget
about it now."

In the previous two elections Mr Blair's communications chiefs have at least
flirted with the idea of having televised debates before finding technical
reasons to scupper the proposal.

These have included legal questions over what to do about the SNP or Plaid Cymru
in broadcasts for Scotland and Wales. In this election there is potentially a
similar problem about creating space at the podium for the emerging UK
Independence Party.

Mr Blair's reluctance to take part is, however, primarily based on him seeing no
advantage in the idea. Polls suggest that Labour is well placed to win a third
term and a TV debate would introduce an element of uncertainty that could swing
support dramatically in the last few days before the election.

Although Downing Street believes that Mr Blair has recently established
ascendancy over Mr Howard in their weekly jousts at Prime Minister's Questions,
the aide said: "We don't see any reason for taking unnecessary risks."

US debate, page 37


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

Kilroy-Silk admits defeat in the bitter competition for leadership of UKIP

BYLINE: Rory Watson and Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 422 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK agreed to withdraw his attempt to lead the UK Independence
Party last night in a tumultuous showdown with his colleagues in Brussels.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's attempt to oust Roger Knapman, the current UKIP leader, has
been temporarily delayed after a meeting of all the party's 11 MEPs that raged
for hours.

The negotiations continue, but Mr Kilroy-Silk may be partly placated by the
offer of a far greater role in the general election campaign and the promise of
greater power beyond it.

The meeting, at the European Parliament building, was the first confrontation
between Mr Kilroy-Silk and Mr Knapman in the two weeks since the former went
public about his intention to lead.

His coup was almost immediately derailed by the departure of Paul Sykes, the
UKIP's most powerful backer, who opposed Mr Kilroy-Silk's policy of standing
against even the most Eurosceptic Conservatives at the next election.

The party is quietly trying to woo Mr Sykes and his millions back from the
Conservatives and needs Mr Kilroy-Silk to keep his views quiet.

Those loyal to Mr Knapman also put forward the polling commissioned by the party
on the "Kilroy effect". This suggests that in the East Midlands, where Mr
Kilroy-Silk has stated that he will stand in the general election next year,
twice as many voters would be put off voting for the UKIP by his presence than
would be persuaded by him.

Nigel Farage, an MEP at the meeting, said: "It was not bitter or horrible, there
were flashes of humour, there is no blood on my carpet. There is a difference of
opinion on the leadership, but the position is clear that Roger is going to lead
and there won't be a contest.

"Kilroy-Silk said today it is not the case that he will leave; he is a comitted
Eurosceptic."

Jeffrey Titford, the group's European whip, emerged to deliver a brief
statement.

"Senior members of the party had a long and amicable discussion in which on both
sides strong views were expressed," Mr Titford said.

"All those involved were, however, concerned that, although there were
legitimate differences on the direction that the party should take, nothing
should be done to damage its long-term prospects.

"There is no change in the team we have and no change in the leadership."

An unhappy-looking Mr Kilroy-Silk refused to comment on the discussions, simply
repeating the same formula, that there had been an amicable discussion, which
was continuing and that "strong views had been expressed on both sides".


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 13, 2004

Policy and politics: Ukip tries to clip Kilroy-Silk's wings

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 410 words


The UK Independence party's 11 MEPs are meeting in Brussels today to decide how
to block Robert Kilroy-Silk's emergence as the party's star, in the face of
evidence that the former TV host will prove to be a negative factor in Ukip's
attempts to become a mainstream party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who became an East Midlands MEP in June after losing his daytime
TV slot because of an intemperate anti-Islamic article, has since virtually
demanded that his fellow Ukip MEP Roger Knapman should step aside as leader and
give him free rein.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk's "kill the Tories" boast at Ukip's Bristol conference this
month (though popular with the rank and file) alarmed senior colleagues and it
angered Ukip's chief donor, Paul Sykes, enough to switch his chequebook back to
Michael Howard's increasingly Eurosceptic Tory party.

Private polling by YouGov before the June 10 Euro-elections, seen by the
Guardian, correctly suggested that Mr Kilroy-Silk's candidacy would push up
Ukip's share of the vote but might prevent Ukip achieving a breakthrough,
because he is perceived as a divisive figure with erratic judgment.

Though his charisma and fame helped Ukip jump from 5% in the polls to 16% on
June 10, narrowly pushing the Lib eral Democrats into fourth place, Mr
Kilroy-Silk's arrival has unsettled his party; most of its members are former
Tories, whereas he was a Labour MP for nearly 20 years.

Today's meeting in Brussels is intended to resolve the leadership issue,
probably by telling him to "shut up" for a while and be patient. The party is
next due to pick a leader in 2006, when Mr Knapman, who is a former Tory MP, is
due to stand down anyway.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's rivals regard him as an upstart who joined the party at a loose
end when they had done the hard work setting it up. Only one MEP is said to back
him.

The YouGov polling in the East Midlands, where he is hoping to stand as an MP
next year, suggests that 11% of voters would be more likely to support Ukip if
he was a candidate - as proved to be the case - but that 24% would be less
likely to do so.

Ukip strategists say that shows he would be an asset for a minor party, but a
liability for one trying to reach 30% or more.

They also assert that RKS's public appeal for financial support from his "close
friend" Mr Sykes was rebuffed on Channel 4 News - proof of his poor judgment.

"He must repair the damage," said one.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 13, 2004, Wednesday

North East turns against 'white elephant' assembly

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: Home news; 22

LENGTH: 947 words


JOHN PRESCOTT'S dream of setting up elected regional assemblies across England
has been thrown into jeopardy after polling showed a dramatic shift against the
idea in the North East.

With only three weeks to go before a referendum, the Deputy Prime Minister and
Gordon Brown were drafted into Newcastle to boost the "yes" vote, amid signs
that the proposal to devolve power to the North East region could be rejected.

A poll published today in the Newcastle regional newspaper The Journal shows
that 36 per cent of people would vote against the mini-Parliament for the North
East, 27.5 per cent would vote in favour and 36 per cent are undecided.

Polls in recent months had shown the "yes" camp leading by two to one. But the
tables have turned with the "no" camp staging a series of stunts to galvanise
opposition before the vote on November 4.

Last week, the group burnt thousands of fake £20 notes, which it claimed would
be wasted if the 25-strong assembly, to be based in Durham, were set up.

This week it is deploying a 12ft inflatable white elephant at regional events.

The referendum is being carried out by an all-postal ballot, despite Electoral
Commission misgivings. The ballot will be sent out on Monday.

The "no" group is fronted by former members of the Business for Sterling
campaign, which fought against the euro, and is backed by Tory and UKIP
-supporting businessmen.

The group, led by John Elliott, 60, chairman of Ebac, a water-cooler
manufacturer, says that the assembly will cost more than present local
government, will create an additional tier of bureaucracy, will result in higher
levels of council tax and will have few powers.

"The 'yes' campaign is struggling to convince people that this assembly will
have any real power," said Mr Elliott of the latest poll, which was conducted by
Wood Holmes, a market research company.

"They have got no message and just rely on warm words. That is a problem, when
people believe that more politicians means higher council tax."

The "yes" camp, led by Professor John Tomaney, 41, a genial academic, who has
worked for a North East assembly for more than 12 years, runs a slick,
conventional campaign with roadshows, glossy leaflets and two dozen experienced
volunteers.Professor Tomaney said of the poll, which surveyed 400 people: "It
was a relatively small sample size and its results are completely out of line
with others conducted recently. There is still everything to play for."

The "yes" group, backed by Labour and the Liberal Democrats and academics and
regional artists, is more knowledgeable, better organised, better financed, but,
so far, less aggressive than its opponents.

Its organisers also privately admit that they are trying to distance themselves
from the new Labour hierarchy, and highprofile North East MPs such as Alan
Milburn and Stephen Byers, who are not popular locally.

Both camps face apathy and ignorance among the region's 1.9 million voters.

"Apathy, not the Tories, is our enemy" said Professor Tomaney, who travels daily
across the region to try to spread his message.

He argues that the proposed regional assembly will create jobs, boost investment
and give the North East a bigger say over tourism, transport, public health,
skills and culture. But he admits that the powers proposed by the Government,
which mainly cover those presently held by the Regional Development Agency, are
disappointing and need to be improved.

He claims that the young are the most enthusiastic supporters of the proposed
assembly. But, when his roadshow arrived in Seaham, Co Durham, a former mining
community on the North East coast, most shoppers, young or old, had barely heard
of it.

Leading article, page 15 THE NORTH EAST REGIONAL ASSEMBLY:

* Size: The North East assembly would have 25 directly elected members, up to 6
executives and a first minister. Elections would be by proportional
representation

* Location: Based in Durham, it would cover an area from Darlington to Berwick

* Cost: £25 million to £30 million a year, mostly funded from central Government
but also from council tax

* Powers: With a budget of about £500 million, it would control housing, fire
and rescue services, public health and some training. It would have no powers
over transport, police or other public services

* Timetable: Elections would take place early in the next Parliament. An
assembly could be set up in 2006.

THE TWO TRIBES:

YES.

* Chairman: Professor John Tomaney, 41, Newcastle University academic and co
founder of North East Assembly campaign.

* Funding: £100,000 from Electoral Commission; £150,000 from Rowntree Foundation
and others.

* Politics: Independent, but has Labour and Liberal Democrat support and is
backed by trade unions, Greens and Respect.

* Member profile: All local. Some have worked for more than ten years for a
North East assembly.

* Main message: The North East will gain more powers from regional assembly.
Family businesses in particular would benefit.

NO.

* Chairman: John Elliott, 60, chairman of Ebac Limited, former regional director
of Business for Sterling.

* Funding: £100,000 from Electoral Commission; £40,000 to Pounds 50,000 from
other backers.

* Politics: Links with Tories and the UKIP. Main backers are Tory businessmen.

Campaign leaders have strong Eurosceptic links.

* Member profile: Have little knowledge of the region but good on gimmicks. Seen
as test for referendum on European constitution.

* Main message: Assembly will have no powers and will lead to more bureaucrats,
more public spending and higher council tax.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 12, 2004, Tuesday

Flexibly European

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 287 words

SIR - The robust Conservative policies on relations with the EU are not aiming
at European Economic Area (EEA) or European Free Trade Agreement (EFTA) status,
as enjoyed by Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland (Letters, Oct 7).
This is precisely because they suffer from "legislation by fax" imposed on them,
over which they have had no say.

In order to benefit from the EU single market, they even have to pay substantial
sums into the EU budget. This explains why all mainstream parties in Norway and
Switzerland support eventual EU membership. Instead, the Conservatives remain
committed to full EU membership with Britain retaining full legislative
co-decision powers. After we are re-elected to government, we will insist at our
first inter-governmental conference that certain aspects of the EU treaties that
are not part of the single market requirement be renegotiated, in particular
repatriating the Common Fisheries Policy, substantial parts of the EU overseas
aid budget and reverting to the Social Chapter opt-out which Tony Blair
recklessly gave away in 1997. This flexible Europe is already operating
successfully. We in Britain, for example, enjoy differing arrangements outside
the euro zone and the Schengen agreement on control of our borders.

The policy that Michael Bryan attacks is in fact that espoused by the UK
Independence Party. It would be sad if Margaret Thatcher's dream of a "wider,
looser Europe" were to be lost, just as it has a real chance of success, because
significant numbers of former Conservatives wasted their vote by voting UKIP at
the next general election.

Charles Tannock MEP

UK Conservative Foreign Affairs Spokesman in the European Parliament

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              109 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

CLASSICAL MUSIC: GLYNDEBOURNE'S FANTASTIC VOYAGE;
 FROM SCHOOLS TO PRISONS, GLYNDEBOURNE IS TAKING OPERA OUT OF ITS

BYLINE: MICHAEL CHURCH Up, up and away: Glyndebourne's The Magic Flute' Laurie
Lewis

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1438 words


If the test for a myth is endless adaptability, consider this rap for the
hapless bird-catcher who frames Mozart's Magic Flute: "This is the story of a
sacrifice/ Of a man who's left to his own device/ He's got no children/ He's got
no wife/ This is the start of a whole new life./ Had to give up his love in an
awful way/ Had to leave behind his birds of prey/ Deep in his heart he has
nothing to say/ Just a lonely young man who's destined to stray..."

Unfussy and direct, these verses come from a group of inmates in Lewes prison,
whose experience has much in common with Papageno's. We get the full story, and
also the heartache that goes with it; few professional librettists could have
done better, and many would have done worse. They've taken the original opera's
characters and put them through a series of modern-day trials: while Papageno is
a sad bad boy, Mozart's errant prince Tamino is given a problematic family
background, and is shown acquiring humility and maturity. And they've put it
into their own language.

It's 50 years since Glyndebourne's John Christie first took opera into the
prison near his bosky retreat, but his successors are still building on his
work. They sent in a director, a musician, and an artist, who induced 15 male
convicts to produce a version of the Flute which they renamed "The Refiners'
Challenge", in which destiny and rites of passage loom appropriately large.
Ideal group therapy for the men, it seems, and yet another vindication of the
ideas of Glyndebourne's feisty education head, Katie Tearle.

Meanwhile, down the road in Newhaven, her team have been putting the Flute to a
very different use: dwelling as it does on the meaning of growing up - and the
perils of transition - it has become the text for a project following a group of
children as they graduate from primary to secondary school. "These kids knew all
about Papageno and Papagena," says Suzanne Graham-Dixon, who observed the
project's progress. "They envied the three boys, reckoned Tamino had a hard time
knowing who to trust, thought Pamina a luscious lady' with a very dodgy mum, and
decided that Sarastro would fit in well at Hogwarts." The boys, she noted, were
particularly keen on the trials by fire and water, and the privilege of joining
Sarastro's brotherhood: "No one will ever convince this lot that opera is for
cissies."

Last week these children got to see the opera for real, courtesy of Glyndebourne
On Tour, which is about to begin its annual peregrination round the land. After
completing its home-turf stint, GOT will visit Woking, Milton Keynes, Norwich,
Plymouth, Stoke-on-Trent and Oxford, all of which will see La Boheme and Pelleas
et Melisande, as well as Adrian Noble's Magic Flute. And in each of these towns
the Glyndebourne education team will be going full blast, using workshops and
school visits to bring the operas to life for young audiences, and to bring out
the continuing relevance of the questions they raise. "My concern is with the
present, not with the future," says Tearle. "I'm not interested in saying Let's
build an audience who will start coming to us when they're in their forties.'
It's got to be now."

This is echoed by Edward Gardner, the young conductor who will take the podium
in each of the above cities for La Boheme. He got bitten by the bug at 13 when
he saw David Pountney's pantomimic Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk at the Coliseum; his
first experience of Wagner was when Covent Garden ripped out their stalls and
welcomed in a youthful clientele at pounds 4 per head. "Not even Pelleas is
inaccessible," he says, "but audiences need some training to get a handle on it
- hence our workshops." He regards Jonathan Dove's Flight (set in an airport,
premiered at Glyndebourne, and now being produced round the world) and John
Lunn's Tangier Tattoo (a new work about gap-year backpacking in Morocco,
commissioned for next year's tour, and a sequel to Lunn's successful school
operas Misper and Zoe) as quintessentially right for creating the audiences of
tomorrow.

But as Glyndebourne's general director David Pickard points out, the correlation
is not quite that simple: "New commissions are vital, and they can bring in an
audience who wouldn't otherwise have come. But you can fall into a trap by
thinking new audiences will come via new composers. My moment of getting hooked
was not seeing Taverner at Covent Garden - it was seeing Don Pasquale, when
something clicked for me."

Glyndebourne's summer festival may be the self-financing wonder of the operatic
world, but its tour needs every penny of its pounds 1m Arts Council grant, even
with furniture giant MFI chipping in with pounds 50,000 this year to fund the
workshops. And as Pickard points out, it's still not fail- safe: last year's
ticket sales were fine for La Traviata, but dropped disastrously whenever
Idomeneo was on the menu. This failure must in part have been due to the unfair
critical drubbing Peter Sellars's show received in many quarters: Anish Kapoor's
abstract set and Sellar's understated references to the Iraq war were used as
sticks with which to beat what was actually a beautiful production.

But Pickard also attributes the sales-slump to the fact that this isn't
household-name Mozart. "But we have to keep a balance. If we only took
rock-solid sell-out shows on the road, we'd be defaulting on an important part
of our mission, which is to give people the opportunity to hear operas they
otherwise wouldn't. Pelleas may not sell out on this tour, but it's absolutely
right that we should take it round the country." Indeed, there's a piquancy in
the notion of this delicate Freudian fantasy being staged in Ukip-supporting,
paedophile-bashing - yes, I know that's only half the story - Plymouth.

Glyndebourne isn't the only company that tours, but it's hit on an ideal formula
for using its tour to renew itself, with singers following a now-accepted
progression from a place in the chorus, to a lead role on tour, to a
fully-fledged lead in the summer festival. It's not generally remembered that
Roberto Alagna made his British debut 18 years ago in Glyndebourne's touring
Traviata. This year's touring group is packed with young musicians who are
rapidly on their way, not least 29-year-old Gardner, for whom a glittering
international career may beckon.

Toby Stafford-Allen, GOT's young and ebullient Papageno, is another case in
point, with a trajectory he describes as accidental. After beginning his musical
life in Grimsby's choir school, he was bet by a friend that he couldn't win a
local singing competition, and won. Then he was persuaded to audition for the
National Youth Choir, and to his surprise got in. Then the same thing happened
with the World Youth Choir, then he stumbled into the Royal Northern College of
Music, from which he modestly expected to emerge as a pop singer - but here he
is. He's both amused and bemused.

Melisande will be sung by the young Swedish mezzo Tove Dahlberg, who worked as a
journalist and jazz singer before realising her true vocation. She's already had
five roles created for her, and has trenchant views on how composers should -
and should not - write. "They should study the voice a little more," she says.
"Some just don't understand how it works - you can't ask for nothing but high
notes as you can from string instruments. I think some composers find it amusing
to write stuff which is difficult to sing. They also need to understand the
difference between lyric and dramatic voices, as composers did in the 19th
century - they really did know how to write for different kinds of voice. You
can get vocally damaged by being asked to sing in ways which don't suit your
apparatus." Ariel's stratospheric tessitura in Tom Ades's new opera The Tempest
is in her view an obvious case in point.

Preparing to quit this enchanted Sussex idyll, I run into GOT's French Pamina.
Valerie Condoluci is a former teacher who has only sung professionally for four
years, and she's astonished to find herself here. "To be in this beautiful
place, among the sheep and the rabbits - it's magic, like nowhere else in the
world." Moreover, Pamina is the role she's always dreamed of. "It was the first
score I ever bought, and it's also the story of my real life at the moment." How
so? "You meet someone, life seems beautiful, then there are obstacles..."
Somebody in the cast? No, she's too coy to say. Taking my leave, I wish her well
with her obstacles.

Glyndebourne On Tour is at its home theatre this week, then touring to 4
December (0870 6063502; www.glyndebourne.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              110 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

PATTEN BLASTS TORIES FOR FLIRTING WITH UKIP

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE AND ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


CHRIS PATTEN, the former Tory chairman, has delivered a stinging attack on his
party, accusing it of shifting to the right and "flirting" with the UK
Independence Party.

Mr Patten, who stands down this month as European commissioner for external
relations, ridiculed aspects of the Tories' Eurosceptic policy as "virtual
reality", and asked: "Is it entirely coincidental that that doesn't seem to have
led to spectacular electoral success?"

In an interview with The Independent, he dismissed plans outlined by Michael
Howard last week for a negotiated withdrawal from EU social legislation and the
common fisheries policy, saying: "If you decide to repatriate fish policy are
you going to depend on our fish being taught to swim only in our territorial
waters? Is this the real world?"

His intervention is a setback for Mr Howard, who avoided public criticism from
Mr Patten's fellow Tory moderates during a united party conference in
Bournemouth last week. Mr Patten said the Tories should attack UKIP head on
rather than try to compete with it. Likening UKIP to "all those who believe in
little green men", he said: "UKIP represents a particularly unattractive,
blazered, xenophobia. They live in a fantasy world of conspiracies against
gallant Blighty, white cliffs, Dambusters, Panzer helmets, a world in which
every foreigner is a threat, a world which is totally at variance with the one
in which we have to earn our living and keep the peace."

Mr Patten countered remarks by David Davis, the shadow Home Secretary, who
claimed last week that Britain's "treasured" values were threatened by
"uncontrolled immigration". He said: "I have no doubt at all that we should try
to have a modern effective fair system of controlling immigration. But do I feel
at all that Britain's national identity or heritage are threatened by
immigration? Of course I don't."

He also criticised Tony Blair and Gordon Brown and urged the Government to make
the case for the EU constitution.

Mr Patten's doubts about Mr Howard's European strategy were echoed by the former
cabinet minister Michael Portillo. "It is hard to see how committing to withdraw
from a few of our European obligations can compete with UKIP's clear-cut policy
of leaving the EU," he said in a Sunday Times article.

An ICM poll for The Sunday Telegraph put Labour (39 per cent) nine points ahead
of the Tories (30 per cent) with the Liberal Democrats on 23 per cent and found
that Mr Blair is trusted by 40 per cent of voters to Mr Howard's 29 per cent.
According to a Populus survey for the News of the World, Mr Blair is regarded as
trustworthy by 29 per cent of people, compared to Charles Kennedy (25 per cent)
and Mr Howard (24 per cent).

Monday interview, page 29

Bruce Anderson, page 33

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              111 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

MONDAY INTERVIEW: CHRIS PATTEN: EUROPEAN COMMISSIONER FOR EXTERNAL RELATIONS;
UKIP LIVES IN A FANTASY WORLD OF DAMBUSTERS, PANZERS AND CONSPIRACIES AGAINST
BLIGHTY'

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Chris Patten: Britain is made up of immigrant
groups' Tor Wennstrom/Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1638 words


CHRIS PATTEN, the outgoing European commissioner for external relations, has
just three weeks left in office and he is clear about his next objective. While
he was governor of Hong Kong, Mr Patten was nicknamed "Fatty Pang" and, though
he subsequently shed pounds, he fears that the combination of endless travel
(180 flights last year) and a sedentary job has put some of them back.

"I haven't taken a lot of exercise and I've put on weight," he says bluntly. "My
first priority when I leave here, apart from writing a book, is to lose weight."

Mr Patten is a politician to his fingertips and knows that even his waistline
could be used against him by Eurosceptics. So he adds quickly: "The weight isn't
about spending every night with my snout in the trough at the Michelin-starred
restaurant Comme Chez Soi. Last night it was an omelette and a bowl of soup."

That such a qualification is necessary says much for the reputation of the EU,
particularly in the Conservative Party of which Mr Patten was once chairman. As
the morning sun streams though the window of his 15th- floor office,
illuminating a fine view of Brussels, Mr Patten pays generous tribute to the
"professionalism and competence" of Michael Howard, the Tory leader and former
cabinet colleague. "Anyone who suggests it is just the same as it was in the
days of Iain Duncan Smith is talking rubbish."

But once these pleasantries are out of the way, the gloves come off. Mr Patten
does not conceal his alarm at a rightward drift on immigration and Europe, which
he believes is profoundly counterproductive.

Elections, he says, cannot be won "if you focus on a core group which gets
progressively smaller" or by "talking to a dwindling band of people."

At the party conference in Bournemouth last week, the shadow Home Secretary,
David Davis, claimed that Britain's "treasured" values were threatened by
"uncontrolled immigration". Mr Patten responds: "I have no doubt at all that we
should try to have a modern, effective, fair system of controlling immigration
and asylum. But do I feel at all that Britain's national identity or heritage
are threatened by immigration? Of course I don't. Like millions of others, I
come, on one side, from immigrant stock which, doubtless, used to suffer, in the
slums of Manchester, a good deal of prejudice against Paddies. We are made up of
migrant groups."

He predicts that, if the party sticks on its current poll position, it could
pick up between 30 and 50 seats in the next election, given the likelihood of
support declining for Labour and rising for the Liberal Democrats.

"But that would leave us camped rather depressingly at the foothills with the
Himalayas still ahead," says Mr Patten. "What most worries me is the impression
that has been given - which I hope is wrong - that the first thing we have to do
to get out of the foothills is to chase after the UKIP vote. UKIP got 10 per
cent in the Hartlepool by-election in which the Tories came fourth and the
Liberal Democrats got 34 per cent. Which is the target for a serious party?

"To give the impression that we are reasonably comfortable travelling on the
same train as UKIP, but just want to get off two or three stops before the
terminal, is very damaging."

On UKIP, Mr Patten shows flashes of the colourful political thuggery he used to
reserve for Labour during his days at Conservative Central Office. At one point
he refers to "UKIP and all those who believe in little green men". At another he
says: "UKIP represents a particularly unattractive, blazered, xenophobia. They
live in a fantasy world of conspiracies against gallant Blighty, white cliffs,
Dambusters, Panzer helmets, a world in which every foreigner is a threat, a
world which is totally at variance with the one in which we have to earn our
living and keep the peace. For modern Conservatives, there should be not a
moment's hesitation in rejecting that political approach rather than flirting
with it."

Mr Patten concedes that the Tory party's centre of gravity has shifted away from
him on Europe, but adds: "That doesn't seem to have led to spectacular electoral
success. I was talking to a group of Conservative MPs this summer. One of them
said I didn't understand what had happened in the party, that I had lost the
plot. Well it was quite a good plot, it was a plot that used to help us win
elections, that made us the natural party of government."

Speaking in carefully constructed sentences, he delivers a forensic dissection
of official party policies, including a negotiated withdrawal from the common
fisheries policy and social legislation, and of calls for Britain to reject the
supremacy of EU law.

This, he says, represents a "sort of virtual reality. Why should our partners in
the EU let us simply jack out of anything we don't like but let us stay for the
ride where we think it suits us. Are we prepared to let the French and the
Germans off the hook on state aids or aspects of the single market or
competition policy? What is sauce for the goose is presumably sauce fore the
gander."

He ridicules the notion that leaving the fisheries policy would help when "the
problem of fish is over-fishing", arguing: "If you decide to repatriate fish
policy are you going to depend on our fish being taught to swim only in our
territorial waters? Is this the real world?"

On legal powers, Mr Patten says: "Are we actually saying we reject the ultimate
authority of the European Court of Justice, because, if we do, it is goodbye to
the single market."

A referendum on the EU constitution can be won, he believes, but only provided
Tony Blair and the Chancellor, Gordon Brown "engage in the campaign" and he
seems unconvinced of the commitment of either. The referendum, he thinks, may be
seen as an opportunity to oust Mr Blair early, now that the Prime Minister has
outlined plans to serve a full third term (or, as he puts it, "12 years - four
years more than any American president - quite a long time".)

"Has Mr Blair taken advantage of his huge majority to deal once and for all with
the existential question about our membership of the EU? No he hasn't. Why
hasn't he? Partly, because he is so extraordinarily deferential to Rupert
Murdoch and his newspapers. How does he put up with Mr Brown's personal campaign
to demonstrate that Europe, to borrow from that column in Private Eye, is the
new Africa?"

The irony, says Mr Patten, is that things really are going Britain's way in
Brussels. "A lot of people are going to ask us to throw over a constitutional
treaty which, more than Maastrict, Amsterdam, let alone the Single European Act,
encapsulates the British view of Europe. A Europe of nation states where
economic and political integration is not a remorseless enterprise. The cards
are stacked in our favour. At that point we try to sweep everything off the
table and start again. It's crazy."

Now counting the days before his departure, Mr Patten no longer bothers with
diplomatic formulations over the Iraq war. He says he "always thought it was a
mistake" and describes the occupation as "botched" but adds: "That doesn't do
any of us any good because we've all got to deal with the consequences."

One of those is, he says, that it "will make it a lot more difficult to carry
opinion next time we are faced with the need to take preventative action."

It will worry some that Mr Patten thinks something similar might be contemplated
but, asked whether pre-emptive action may be needed, he replies: "Absolutely,
there are all sorts of places. I hope that we can deal with the problem of Iran
through negotiation. But we are living in a world in which there are pernicious
relationships between the horrendous tech of modern warfare, terrorism, human
rights abuse and failing states."

Mr Patten does not dispel suggestions that he had frustrations during his stint
as a commissioner. It cannot be compared to being a cabinet minister, he says,
let alone governor of Hong Kong - a place where he "got things done and got
things done quickly". The Patten epitaph on Brussels is a bit more sober: "An
interesting five years. I accomplished quite substantial reforms in the way we
manage our business but I can't hide from you the fact that that has been,
sometimes, rather uphill work.

"Inevitably, even though people here are good, bureaucratic rules reflect 15,
now 25, bureaucratic traditions. Things are sometimes slow and opaque. But I
think most people would concede that I made a difference.

For all his frustrations, Mr Patten seems to harbour a lingering regret that,
when he was canvassed as a potential Commission president, his nationality
counted against him. Instead, Mr Patten will now busy himself with writing two
books, co-chairing the International Crisis Group and serving as chancellor of
Oxford University.

As for Peter Mandelson, Britain's incoming EU trade commissioner, Mr Patten
believes he "has all the capacity to do the job exceptionally well". Though the
two men are not friends, they have met a couple of times and Mr Mandelson has
taken some of the Patten team. The outgoing commissioner also says he knows Mr
Mandelson's chef, Brussels-speak for chef de cabinet or most senior aide, before
adding - maybe for the benefit of those UKIP critics - "I mean his head of
cabinet, not his personal cook".

THE CV

Born 1944

Education Balliol, Oxford

1966 Conservative Research Department

1974-79 Director of CRD

1979 MP for Bath

1983 Junior minister at Northern Ireland Office

1985 Minister of State, Department of Education and Science

1986 Minister for Overseas Development

1989 Secretary of State for the Environment

1990 Tory party chairman

1992 Hong Kong governor

1999-2004 European commissioner

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              112 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

IS IT TIME FOR SOME NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNING?;
 EVERYTHING THIS GOVERNMENT TOUCHES ENDS UP IN WASTE, FIASCO AND

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1234 words


There is an after-dinner game called Moriarty, which used to be popular in
regimental messes and country house weekends. It involves two chaps,
blindfolded, lying on the carpet, calling out "Are you there, Moriarty?"' and
then trying to biff each other with a rolled-up newspaper. It could be quite
fun, once the decanters had dulled the critical faculties.

Now, it is a useful way of describing the relationship between the political
parties and the voters. Both the main parties devote a lot of time and money to
the desire and pursuit of public opinion. They are always in the market for new
refinements and sophistications which will help to win over target groups. Yet
ultimately, as analysts on both sides will ruefully acknowledge, they are often
doing little more than biffing about in the dark. Long gone are the days of
near-80 per cent turnouts and uniform swings, when a four per cent loss in
Bradford was replicated in Bournemouth. We can now expect turnout in the low
50s, plus sizeable regional variations and an election contested by three
parties, not two, in which minor parties with no hope of parliamentary
representation could also make trouble.

The Tories will have to devise a national campaign which accommodates two
virtually separate elections; against Labour in the north and Midlands, and
against the Liberal Democrats in the south and west. The Tories also have to
find a rhetoric which minimises the threat from UKIP without offending the
genteel middle classes.

Potential UKIP voters tend to believe that the country is going to the dogs.
Traditionally, Tory candidates had strong meat to placate those who thought like
that. These days, however, there is also a problem with well-off voters who
worry whether the Tory party is nice enough to support. Despite Chris Patten's
comments (see page 2), the number of angry Tories who think that the party is
not responding to their concerns greatly exceeds the number who feel that it
should do more to promote the merits of Europe. But these days, the Tories
cannot afford to alienate any disaffected minority.

But the Tories have a greater strategic problem. How do they turn "less is more"
into an election-winning message? Facing an apparently hopeless contract, any
good bridge player will start by assuming that the vital cards are where he
needs them to be. Thus it is with the Tories. They are working on the assumption
that much of the public is now fed up with Tony Blair. That is their only hope,
for if it turns out to be untrue, then as one senior Tory put it to me
yesterday: "We are toast anyway".

If the Tories can avoid being toasted and the public is disillusioned with Mr
Blair, it follows that his opponents would be foolish to imitate him with a
competing brand of tele-evangelism. So at Bournemouth last week the party set
out to exploit antipathy to Blairism by offering a limited schedule of pledges
and promises. The aim was to project an image of competence, accountability and
honesty. On the whole, it appeared to be working. Everyone stayed on message;
the conference went exactly as its organisers had planned. So the first
post-Bournemouth opinion polls were eagerly awaited. Mr Howard's entourage were
hoping for a three or four per cent bounce. There was no bounce, just more dull
flat-lining at about 30 per cent.

There was one consolation. The party has no Plan B , and it is far too late to
devise one. With a little more than 200 days to polling day, this is no moment
for second thoughts, or for the Tories to start claiming that they are also in
the business of transforming Britain. They have got to stick to the Bournemouth
themes; headmasters with more power over discipline, policemen spending less
time filling in forms, hospitals eradicating the infections which should have
gone out with Florence Nightingale, rather than fiddling their ministerial
target returns.

This is all good stuff. But it is hard to turn it into headlines on the six
o'clock news. It is never easy to make common sense sound exciting. William
Hague used to talk about "Kitchen-table Conservatism", a phrase which I thought
deserved a better hearing than it obtained. Forty years ago, the kitchen was
deployed more effectively, but on the stage, not in politics. There was a brief
vogue for kitchen-sink drama, a term which started as a pejorative which led to
a theatrical phrase in which some now-forgotten plays received a respectful
hearing. Whether the Tories are in the business of tables or sinks, they too
will now need to find the phrases to dramatise the commonplace.

Mockery will help. The Tories are convinced that old-style, negative
campaigning, which still seems to work well in the US, is no use in the UK. They
are certain that it just alienates the voters from every politician and all
politics. But witty deflation which had the viewers laughing would not come
across as negative.

There is plenty of scope for deflation. It is fortunate for New Labour that
Scottish affairs now receive little coverage south of the border. Saturday saw
the opening of the Scottish Parliament; four years late, 10 times over budget,
and all for a building of puffed up mediocrity. From the outset, there were lies
at the heart of the project, as was a contempt for the public purse. A
politician widely believed to be saintly put his name to financial estimates
which he knew to be grossly dishonest; conduct which would have earned a company
director a long jail sentence (no it was not Tony Blair but Donald Dewar).

Far from being unique, the Scottish Parliament is symptomatic. Everything this
Government touches ends up in waste, fiasco and folie de grandeur. Tony Blair
jets off to rescue Africa, and a plane has to make a 1,500 mile detour so that
he can have his risotto. You can take the boy out of Islington; you cannot take
Islington out of the boy.

The examples of fashionable folly multiply every time one opens a newspaper.
Tristran Jones-Parry, shortly to retire as headmaster of Westminster School,
would like to teach his own subject, maths, in a state school. Even while
headmaster, he kept his hand in by taking classes at Westminster. Its exam
results are outstanding, while many comprehensives find it almost impossible to
recruit decent mathematicians. But Mr Jones-Parry has now been informed that he
is not properly qualified. Perhaps he should have aimed higher and redressed a
more urgent educational need; running a Government task-force to ensure that
small boys are prevented from gathering conkers.

There is only one rational explanation for the behaviour of Labour's insensate
bureaucracy. It may be taking such psychopathic decisions in order to make life
impossible for the writers of farces - because nothing they devise for the stage
could possibly be as farcical as real life in the Blair government's department
of regulation.

The Conservatives must be able to make use of all this, without sounding sourly
negative. Millions of people now believe that the agents of Government are never
there to do anything useful, such as catching burglars, because they are too
busy trying to criminalise law-abiding citizens who have not filled in the
correct forms. That is the way to give colour to the politics of limited
government; to link it to the need to restrain government which increasingly
appears to have become insane.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              113 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

TALK OF THE TOWN: FIELDING 250 I DON'T LIKE IT HERE MUCH

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER WOOD

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 474 words


A steady drizzle had turned Lisbon's steep cobbles treacherous. I skidded my way
to the British Cemetery, but insistent bell-pushing brought no response. The
walls were high and slippery, there was a police station next door, Henry
Fielding's tomb was a stone's throw away and I couldn't get to it.

Eventually the gate creaked open to reveal a tiny, ancient woman. She was
impervious to my Spanish, until the word "Fielding" worked magic and with the
wordless Portuguese equivalent of "Why didn't you say so?" she ushered me in.

Near the middle is a marble pile put up in 1830 that may or may not surmount the
remains of Fielding, who died in Lisbon 250 years and two days ago. In Kingsley
Amis's deplorably xenophobic novel I Like It Here, a prime contender for UKIP's
favourite text, a character stood here and referred to Fielding as "the only
non-contemporary novelist who could be read with unaffected interest... who
never had to be apologised for on the grounds of changing taste". Amis got that
much right.

But for Fielding, a small step from posterity, Lisbon was hell. On disembarking
in August 1754 he clapped eyes on "the nastiest city in the world". They were a
party of five, but soon the servants deserted. Fielding's second wife, Mary,
brought a friend, Margaret Collier, described by Fielding as "the greatest Folly
and the greatest Bitchery that ever were united in 2 women". Life was
cripplingly expensive, and Fielding ruefully noted in his journal all the bribes
he hadn't taken as a London magistrate.

Fielding made a poor invalid, but if his complaints were great, so were his
sufferings. He had left London in search of health, but he was no better at
finding it than Keats 70 years later. When he sailed in 1753 "a jaundice, a
dropsy, and an asthma had united their forces in the destruction of a body so
entirely emaciated, that it had lost all its muscular flesh". Yet that body was
swollen with liquid. As many as 14 quarts would be tapped at a time and he had
to be winched aboard using rope and pulleys. The ship's mirrors were covered to
hide from himself his hideous transformation.

After all the Graham Greene hoo-ha last weekend, little seems to be going on for
Fielding. Yet his jokes have not palled, his satire is just as sharp, and his
nice discriminations - "greatness consists in bringing all manner of mischief on
mankind, goodness in removing it" - just as pertinent.

In Lisbon Fielding was ill and miserable. Better to celebrate his anniversary on
a bend on the A30 between Shaftesbury and Sherborne at East Stour. Here Fielding
grew up, a happy little thug who hunted and poached, like the young Tom Jones.
Or the house at Sharpham Park, two miles west of Glastonbury, where Fielding was
born in 1707. Ends are never up to much. Let us celebrate Fielding's beginning.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              114 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

WHY IS MR HOWARD GETTING SUCH AN EASY RIDE?

BYLINE: ALAN WATKINS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1121 words


For 50 years after the last war, there were numerous institutions which, though
they might be challenged, no one could be confident of defeating. They included
the Roman Catholic church, the Brigade of Guards, the National Union of
Mineworkers, the Australian cricket team, the Welsh rugby side and the
Conservative Party. One by one, they have lost their former pre- eminence. Even
the Church of Rome is full of hesitation and doubt. How are the mighty fallen!
Only the Australians are left. And the most recent casualties are the
Conservatives.

Or so one might have concluded from reading the papers and watching television
at the beginning of last week. The Conservatives, we were confidently informed,
were finished, done for. Mr Michael Howard, so far from becoming Prime Minister,
might not even be Leader of the Opposition in the new Parliament, whether
because he had been dislodged by his own party or - even more distressingly -
because he had been supplanted in that position by Mr Charles Kennedy.

There was a journalistic reason for this gloomy prognosis in addition to the
wind and the rain by the seaside, which always tend to make my colleagues
tetchy. This was the Hartlepool by-election. On Friday and succeeding days the
papers had been full of Mr Tony Blair and his most recent adventures. They did
not have space to get round to the by-election till Monday. Then, gradually, the
mood lightened. By the end of the week, the Tories were being allowed to get
away with aggravated assault on the English language.

For example, "accountability" was the great rallying cry of Mr Tony Benn, who
was himself a left-leaning liberal, and of his less innocent supporters in
1979-81 and, indeed, before then. It was a response to what was seen as the
failures - in the Labour argot of the period, the betrayals - of the Callaghan
government and of the previous administrations of Harold Wilson. Accountability
was to be achieved through a strengthening and an extension of what was already
part of Labour's structure.

This was the notion of representative democracy, whereby delegates to the party
conference and other assemblies were "mandated" to vote in a certain way
irrespective of what had gone on in the debate beforehand. This was the reverse
of what Conservatives still believe. The people at Bournemouth last week take a
pride in calling themselves representatives, not delegates. Oddly, perhaps, this
makes them opposed to representative democracy.

Under Old Labour theory, which reached its apogee in 1981, MPs control
ministers, including the Prime Minister. But party members control the MPs. They
exercise their power through mandatory reselection. It is government by party,
the rule of the elect. It is still government by party, except that, now, word
comes down from our beloved leader and the party does as it is told. This is the
reverse of what Ms Patricia Hewitt and various other pillars of Mr Blair's
administration once expounded with passion.

Mr Howard, though a clever man in his way, has never shown much interest in
political theory. In this he resembles the Prime Minister. I doubt whether he
has the faintest idea of what accountability means. It is merely part of the
week's rhetoric, designed to serve an immediate political purpose and then to be
forgotten.

On the whole, my colleagues have been remarkably kind to the Conservative
leader. Hartlepool happened the week before last. And they tend to assess the
impression which they guess a politician is making rather than the sense of what
he or she is saying and its meaning.

Thus it makes no sense for Mr Howard to promise the decentralisation of
hospitals and at the same time to guarantee their cleanliness. For what happens
when a hospital chooses not exactly to be dirty but, rather, to spend the money
available on some piece of superior equipment rather than on improved cleaning
services? In fact, as we know (and as Mr Steve Richards pointed out in The
Independent last week), dirty hospitals came in with Margaret Thatcher and her
policy of forcing them to contract out their cleaning services. Those who
visited hospitals in the 1980s noticed the dirt that was not there before.

Likewise, Mr Howard was given an easy time on Europe: I mean, by the
commentators rather than by the representatives, though they gave him an easy
time as well. There were several reasons for this indulgence by the audience.

One was that Europe has now replaced law and order and, later, Rhodesia, as the
subject on which the Tories traditionally have a row, which this year they were
anxious to avoid. Another reason was that Mr Paul Sykes had smartly removed the
chair from under Mr Robert Kilroy-Silk and UKIP by withdrawing funds from the
party, precisely because Mr Kilroy-Silk was threatening to put up candidates
against every single Conservative. All Mr Howard had to do was to rely on the
tried, tested and mendacious formulae - social chapter, common fisheries policy,
renegotiation and all the rest of it - when he knows perfectly well that a
Conservative government has about as much chance of renegotiating the relevant
treaties as he has of playing for his favourite football club, Liverpool.

And yet, perhaps the Tories piped down on Europe not just for electoral reasons,
to avoid a row, but because they wanted to talk about something else: taxation.
Here Mr Oliver Letwin proved a grievous disappointment. Like Mr Howard, he is a
clever fellow. Indeed, one could say that he had been educated out of his wits.
But he lacks the fiscal ingenuity which Geoffrey Howe and, to an even greater
extent, Nigel Lawson both possessed. For instance, it would be possible to solve
the inheritance tax problem and, incidentally, to embarrass Mr Gordon Brown
(even if Mr Brown is a shameless character) by taxing individual bequests rather
than the whole of the deceased's estate.

Again: Pay As You Earn has existed only since 1944. It was invented by a civil
servant, Stanley Paul Chambers, who went on to become head of ICI. Before then,
paying income tax was a sign of membership of the middle classes. No longer.
Even so, why should people generally not be allowed to pay their taxes as they
used to and as I do still, under Schedule D?

Or again: why tax income at all? Why not tax expenditure instead, as the
socialist economist Nicholas Kaldor once proposed? This would not necessarily
entail a wholly indirect and therefore regressive system of taxation. But it
would mean that savings went untaxed.

Of fresh thinking of this kind there was no sign whatever at Bournemouth. No
doubt it is too late now. One can only wonder that Mr Howard enjoyed such a good
press in the end.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              115 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

LETTER: CONSTITUTION WILL MAKE EU EFFICIENT

BYLINE: ALAN PAVELIN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 175 words


Any unbiased assessment of the draft European Union constitution must conclude
that, on balance, it represents a small but significant shift in powers away
from the EU institutions and towards member states. The French and Germans
recognise this; their newspapers have criticised the constitution recently
negotiated for giving away too much to the Anglo- Saxon point of view, and it is
reported that many French voters are threatening to vote "no" in their
referendum for this very reason.

How bizarre, therefore, that our own Eurosceptic politicians are campaigning
against a constitution which will move in the direction they want. (In the case
of UKIP, they have the added bonus of a clause specifically stating that a
member state may leave the EU.) If the constitution is adopted, one effect will
be that the 25-member EU will be run much more efficiently. Am I being cynical
in suspecting that this is what the more canny Eurosceptics wish to avoid, as it
would undermine their own position?

Alan Pavelin

Chislehurst, Kent

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              116 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 10, 2004

Quotes of the Week

SECTION: FB; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 291 words


'We invaded a country, thousands of people have died, and Iraq never posed a
grave or growing danger.'

Veteran US Senator John Rockefeller, after the Iraq Survey Group formally
reported that Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruction

'These days, you really can't believe anything any politician tells you except
for Saddam Hussein on WMD.'

Theo Hopkins, of Devon, in a letter to The Guardian

'History is about arrogance, vanity and vapidity who better than me to present
it?'

Spikey TV historian David Starkey

'She should be allowed to meet her end with the TLC of those who love her the
most.'

Mr Justice Hedley, in his High Court judgment that tragic premature baby
Charlotte Wyatt must be allowed to die naturally

'What is really interesting about Botox and plastic surgery is that people don't
look any younger with it.

They simply look as if they've had plastic surgery.'

Actress Julianne Moore

'Peter Mandelson has hardly been in Brussels two weeks and already Wales has
fallen into the Irish Sea.'

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram, after the principality was left off a
map of the British Isles for the cover of an EU yearbook

'Minority ethnic.'

Politically correct phrase for ethnic minority, insists the Law Society

'There was no innovation; constant makeovers and far too many cookery and
gardening programmes.

Dumb, dumb, dumb.'

Alasdair Milne, former BBC Director-General, arguing that there are too many
women at the top of the Corporation

'It is being hijacked by a sun-tanned parasite who is devouring them from
inside.'

Boxing promoter and former UK Independence Party member Frank Maloney, on Robert
Kilroy-Silk's political ambitions for UKIP

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              117 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 10, 2004

BLACK DOG

BYLINE: BLACK DOG

SECTION: FB; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 434 words



Cautionary tale from Col Tim

COLONEL Tim Collins, the Iraq war hero who addressed the conference, later told
of his sympathy for Trooper Kevin Williams, the soldier prosecuted for allegedly
murdering an Iraqi civilian.

Collins said his own men shot and injured an Iraqi civilian who ran up to a
checkpoint waving what looked like grenades.

They turned out to be tomatoes he was offering as a bribe to buy his way
through.

SHADOW Chancellor Oliver Letwin refused the offer of a London 2012 Olympic badge
at the conference exhibition centre, protesting limply: 'If I wear too many
badges, I'll look like Wolfie in Citizen Smith.' 'But your party is backing the
Olympics bid,' he was told. 'Oh dear, I'd better go,' spluttered Letwin. He's
more Wally than Wolfie.

TIM YEO's raven-haired spin doctor, Tara Hamilton-Miller, who runs a dance
studio, found the ideal way to cool off after briefing journalists in the bar of
Bournemouth's Highcliffe Hotel into the early hours she went skinny-dipping in
the sea. Lucky fish.

Sisters put Liam in an awkward position

DON'T go looking for hidden messages in the favourite rock bands of Tory MPs.

Party chairman Liam Fox's choice, New York group the Scissor Sisters, left, are
named after a lesbian sexual position.

FORMER chairman Archie Norman, who whinged on the fringe that the party was 'not
forward looking enough', is looking forward to resuming his career as business
mogul outside politics. He is set to quit his Tunbridge Wells seat at the
Election.

A message from your leader, Archie. 'Don't call us . . .'

The ugly truth about UKIP membership

THE growth of UKIP has its compensations.

After pondering the mysterious absence of the usual contingent of ageing, smelly
cranks in raincoats and pebble specs, one Tory official concluded: 'Our uglies
have joined UKIP. They can keep them.'

RUMOURS of plots and sexual intrigue abound in a fierce row over finding a
candidate to succeed retiring Norfolk Tory MP Gillian Shephard. Several of the
rumours involve the priapic chairman of another local Conservative Party
Association. Normal for Norfolk, as the saying goes . . .

Hail the great survivors

TWENTY years ago this week, Margaret Thatcher, Norman Tebbit and his wife
Margaret were among the Tory faithful who went to bed at the conference in
Brighton to be woken by the Irish terrorist bomb that killed five. Maggie
escaped by seconds, Norman was buried alive and Margaret was crippled for life.
Today the three will have quiet lunch together at the Tebbits' country home. God
bless 'em.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              118 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 10, 2004

Kilroy-Silk is nothing but a perma-tanned egotist

BYLINE: CAROLE CAPLIN

SECTION: NIGHT & DA; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 933 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk seems to think he's irresistibly goodlooking and charismatic.

You can tell by the awful perma-tan and the way he lets those few wispy strands
of white hair flop across his forehead that he regards himself as
heart-stoppingly sexy.

No doubt he sets many hearts aflutter in the UK Independence Party which he now
aspires to lead and he may well have had legions of fans among female daytime TV
viewers, but he does nothing for me.

It's not that he's unattractive, just that his entire demeanour is so
unappealing. I've seen him at a number of social gatherings over the years, and
he has never once struck me as someone you'd enjoy having a conversation with,
light-hearted or serious. Throwing his head and arms around, he seems like a man
totally carried away by the brilliance of his own opinions and ideas.

Now, after just five months as a member, he's announced that in his view, he'd
make a far better leader of UKIP than Roger Knapman. But to win over voters,
political leaders need to have or appear to have the common touch, and exude an
air of approachability and common sense. Any suggestion of out-ofcontrol vanity
is a total turnoff.

Kilroy-Silk, by contrast, seems to want the leadership mainly to assuage his
damaged ego after being sacked from his daytime BBC programme for making
offensive comments about Muslims.

If he does become leader, he'll need to tone down the fake tan, rethink that
very odd hairstyle and look a great deal less smug.

THE WHEEL DEAL

We 4x4 drivers are under attack again, censured in a new motoring magazine
survey for zooming around Britain's cities in so-called 'Chelsea tractors' the
vehicle of choice, so it is hurtfully alleged, of 'footballers' wives'.

At the same time, 30-yearold Oxford graduate Sian Berry is waging a one-woman
war against London's 4x4 drivers by taking it upon herself to stick pamphlets on
windscreens, warning of the environmental damage we cause. And if ever I meet
her, I'll willingly admit she has a point.

Four-wheel drives do emit more carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and nitrogen
dioxide than standard cars. If it were possible, my vehicle of choice would be a
zippy little two-seater sports convertible.

But as it happens, most of the time I have to carry a lot of styling and fitness
equipment around, making the height and depth of a 4x4 essential.

Spending so much time in my car, and ferrying passengers around too, my vehicle
functions almost like a travelling office.

It's quite true that unless one does a lot of off-road driving, a four-wheel
drive is completely unnecessary. And there's not a lot of off-road driving to be
done in London or any other urban area. So, sure, if car manufacturers can come
up with a two-wheel drive car that is as spacious and comfortable as a 4x4, I'd
happily buy one.

In the meantime, however, I'm about to trade in the Chelsea tractor I've been
driving for the past seven years for another.

In my defence, at least the new car is diesel-powered, which, after test drives
over the past few days, I can enthusiastically recommend. Diesel is a much
cleaner and far more efficient fuel than petrol, and these days gives just as
good driving performance.

FAMILY JEWELS

He's always been eccentric, but poor old Sir Elton John appears to have lost the
plot completely of late.

First he's shown calling photographers 'Rude, vile pigs!', when he had to queue
with everyone else at an airport immigration desk as he arrived in Taiwan by
private jet.

Then he has a rant about Madonna at a music awards ceremony.

But most offensive of all are his recent remarks that he can think of no one to
leave his vast fortune to when he dies other than his ten already extremely
wealthy godchildren, including Brooklyn Beckham and Elizabeth Hurley's son,
Damian. Is he serious?

Like any normal person, I can easily think of ten eminently worthy children's
charities that would make fantastic use of even just a couple of million pounds.
The lives of hundreds of needy children in Britain would be transformed by that
sort of money, let alone children living in developing countries.

But Elton, whose fortune is currently estimated at Pounds 175 million, says he's
been wracking his brains and feeling anxious because he just can't think where
all his money should go when he dies.

'There was a part of me going, "Who am I going to leave this to?"' he said. 'It
was going to be nobody. But we have enough godchildren to leave everything to
now.' People are entitled to leave their money to whomever they wish, but
Elton's plans are obscene. Every day, we are confronted by images of babies
dying from the lack of clean water, of Aids orphans in Africa, of children
scratching around on rubbish dumps for food scraps. Ever heard of Unicef or
Oxfam, Elton?

SEX STILL SELLS

The controversial soft-porn video for the dance track Call on Me plays on a loop
in the gym where I work.

Featuring scantily clad women writhing provocatively during an aerobics class, I
think it's rather funny, but I can see why it's causing outrage among parents
and politicians. The video's explicit sexual imagery is totally inappropriate
for the track's teenage target audience.

But what's new? Sex has been used to sell pop music and teen magazines for
years.

Tory culture spokesman John Whittingdale says: 'It's sad we've got to the stage
where singles are promoted not on their musical quality but on the basis of
sexual imagery.' I would have thought we'd reached that stage at least a decade
ago.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ROBERT KILROY-SILK HE SEEMS TO THINK HE'S IRRESISTIBLY ATTRACTIVE, BUT
HE DOES NOTHING FOR ME SIR ELTON JOHN THE STAR CAN THINK OF NO ONE TO LEAVE HIS
FORTUNE TO EXCEPT HIS ALREADY WEALTHY GODCHILDREN HOT SHOT THE VIDEO FOR CALL ON
ME HAS CAUSED OUTRAGE, BUT SEX HAS BEEN USED TO SELL POP MUSIC FOR YEARS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              119 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 10, 2004

Comment: WITHOUT PREJUDICE: How to save Labour: The government needs to face up
to some unpalatable truths, and then move Gordon into Number 10

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1451 words


DENIAL IS A useful psychological description of the mental state of a patient
who can't acknowledge the blindingly obvious. If a representative sample of
politicians and political journalists were sectioned under the Mental Health
Act, any half-way decent psychologist would conclude that an epidemic of denial
had swept Westminster like chicken pox through a kindergarten.

The conventional wisdom holds that Tony Blair is the master of his destiny. If
he wants to stay Prime Minister for another five years, a third term with a
comfortable majority is his for the taking. The Tories are still the busted
flush they have been for the past decade. The Liberal Democrats may be more
popular, but remain as irrelevant as ever to the great game of winning and
holding power.

To agree with the established view you have to deny four facts which strike
outsiders as self-evident.

1. The anti-Tory coalition is falling apart

From the early 1990s to the Iraq war, centre-left voters wised-up and used the
first-past-the-post system to crucify the Tories for what they had done to
Britain. John Major is remembered for sneaking a freak victory in the 1992
general election. But Major's Conservatives won 41.9 per cent of the vote,
marginally down on the 42.2 per cent Margaret Thatcher secured in 1987 and 1.2
per cent up on the 40.7 per cent who voted for Tony Blair in 2001. His success
didn't help him. While Thatcher had a majority of 102 seats in 1987 and Blair
had a majority of 167 in 2001, poor old Major's lead was a miserly 21.

Labour had done far better in the marginal seats where elections are decided
because the electorate was voting tactically. By 1997, the power of tactical
voting was there for all to see. Liberals voted Labour and Labour supporters
voted Liberal and the once-mighty Parliamentary Conservative Party was reduced
to a rump of pasty-faced has-beens.

The world of the 1990s is gone. As I mentioned a few weeks ago, it's still easy
to imagine Labour supporters voting Lib Dem to keep the Tories out but hard to
see how most opponents of the war can vote for Tony Blair. The demise of
tactical voting will reinvigorate the Tories as certainly as its rise destroyed
them. In St Albans and Welwyn and many tight seats like them, the Tories don't
need to increase their vote to win. They just need Lib Dems, Greens and the rest
to stop voting Labour.

Westminster wisdom holds that there are scarcely any Labour/Lib Dem marginals.
But again the standard line feels all wrong. If the Lib Dems are taking safe
Labour seats in by-elections, why should it be different at the general
election? Put it this way, if you woke up the morning after to hear that the Lib
Dems had replaced 20 Labour MPs in constituencies with large student, liberal
middle-class and Muslim populations, would it be such a shock?

Peter Hain is alone among Labour leaders in realising that his party could be
caught in a pincer movement. His colleagues and most of the media don't grasp
the possibility because their extrapolations from poll findings are based on a
set of voting assumptions which predict that the pattern of tactical anti-Tory
voting of 2001 won't break down in 2005. (They are known as the 'Baxter
assumptions' if you want to impress your friends.)

Mike Smithson of politicalbetting. com showed me what happens if you assume the
Baxter assumptions are wrong. The last Observer poll put the Tories on 33 per
cent, Labour on 32 per cent and the Lib Dems on 25. The conventional measures
used to translate votes into seats gave Labour 322 seats, the Tories 227 and the
Lid Dems 52. Change the assumptions to take account of Iraq, however, and you
get Labour on 296, the Tories on 269 and the Lib Dems on 52 - or a hung
Parliament and Blair unable to carry on as PM as the Lib Dems won't work with
him.

You can fiddle with the assumptions for ever, and Smithson's a gambler not a
prophet. None the less his advice is: if you're offered good odds on a hung
Parliament, take the bet.

Government supporters protest that Labour will recover. The economy's doing
well, public services are improv ing, crime and unemployment rates have fallen
off a cliff and the Tories are ugly, boring and stupid.

As soon as they open their mouths, they show they are in denial about our second
self-evident truth. . .

2. The Tories aren't as ugly, boring and stupid as they look

Everyone says that they require a gigantic swing of 11 points to win. Maybe. But
to stop Labour getting an overall majority, they need only increase their vote
by a couple of points.

There's every reason to think that they will. Before the 1997 and 2001
elections, Tories stumbled around in a state of weary despair. Now they are
furious about foxhunting, asylum seekers, crime and Europe. They hate Blair with
a passion that those of us who see the Prime Minister's Thatcherite tendencies
find quite mad. In an age of small turnouts, angry minorities have a
disproportionate impact. To quote the most obvious example, hardly anyone will
vote Labour because it wants to ban foxhunting with dogs. But foxhunters will
vote and campaign for the Tories.

For reasons no one can adequately explain, the opinion polls have underestimated
Tory support for years. Notoriously in 1992 they failed to predict Major's
victory. What isn't as well known is that in 1997 the average opinion poll
result for the Tories over the campaign was 3.5 per cent below their actual
vote. In 2001 the polls underestimated their real support by 6.5 per cent. The
rise of Ukip and by-elections notwithstanding, it's always worth assuming that
the Tories are doing better than the media say.

3. Labour's friends won't rally round

Martin Amis's 1995 novel, The Information , caught the political attitude of
intellectual London at the zenith of the anti-Tory coalition. Richard, the
wretched hero, is gazing with envy at the new mansion of his friend Gwyn, a
vapid novelist who has become rich by peddling witless morality tales.

'Of course, thought Richard. Yeah: of course Gwyn was Labour. It was obvious.
Obvious not only from the ripply cornice 20 feet above their heads, not from the
brass lamps or the military plumpness of the leather-topped desk. Obvious
because Gwyn was what he was, a writer in England, at the end of the twentieth
century. There was nothing else for such a person to be. Richard was Labour,
equally obviously. It often seemed to him, moving in the circles he moved in and
reading what he read, that everyone in England was Labour, except the
government.'

Not any more. The herd of independent minds has mooed and moved on. Apart from
the hired help of the Murdoch press, Tony Blair has precious little intellectual
support. It's no good saying to his critics that the liberal-left has turned its
back on the victims of fascism for the first time in its history.

Or that Iraqi democrats deserved and deserve support. Or that Saddam killed
millions and the UN sanctions and bombing campaigns of that nice Robin Cook
killed hundreds of thousands. Or that David Kelly thought that Saddam had
weapons of mass destruction. Or that Andrew Gilligan broke the first rule of
journalism and stitched up his source, who then killed himself.

None of these arguments works. (Trust me, I've tried.)

Internationalism either died with the socialist movement in the twentieth
century or is hibernating while Bush is in the White House. The detail of what
happened in the days before Kelly's death is neither here nor there.

The dispute between Blair and the intellectual liberal-left isn't really about
whether Iraq should have remained a tyranny. It's about the Atlantic alliance,
Britain's national interest, honest government and the monumental mistake of
claiming that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction when he didn't.

If my reading is right, then not even successful elections in Iraq will make a
difference. Blair will go into 2005 with as little heavyweight support as
Michael Foot in 1983. It doesn't mean he will lose, in fact it would be
perversely marvellous if he won, but taking that risk means you have to believe
that there is no alternative and deny the obvious that. . .

4. Yes there is

Gordon Brown. A YouGov poll for the Mail on Sunday found that if Brown was
Labour leader its ratings would shoot out of the hung-Parliament zone and back
into landslide territory.

The failure of the Cabinet to tell Blair it was time to make way for Brown in
the summer may yet prove one of the most disastrous mistakes in the history of
the Labour movement. Perhaps if enough Labour MPs realise that their careers
could be finished, it will be rectified.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

LANDSLIDE III;
 ELECTION ON MAY 5BLAIR'S 106 MAJORITY

BYLINE: NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 289 words

HIGHLIGHT: RIGHT: We predict date


TONY Blair will romp to an historic THIRD General Election victory by a
landslide, predicts Britain's top pollster.

Mori boss Bob Worcester expects an overall Labour majority of 106.

That is 52 less than Mr Blair has now - but more than enough for another full
five-year term in power.

Mr Worcester predicts election day will be May 5 - as The People revealed six
months ago. Most experts had assumed Mr Blair - dubbed Teflon Tony because
nothing sticks to him - would get back with a majority between 50 and 80.

But Mr Worcester used computer projections of recent polls to arrive at the new
figure. He says: "In spite of nearly everything, things continue to go well for
Labour. The combination of circumstances still favour Teflon Tony."

Labour won the 1997 election with a majority of 177 and triumphed by 165 in
2001. That lead has been slightly reduced due to by-election results.

Mr Worcester reckons the Tories will win 181 seats next time, 18 more than now.
The Lib Dems would have 59 MPs, an increase of four.

But the polling guru says the right-wing UKIP will be lucky to win ANY seats.

Mr Worcester says voters believe there is no credible alternative to a Labour
government. "Despite the continuing morass in Iraq, the rise in interest rates,
perceived problems in the NHS, transport, crime and the state of the
environment, there's little belief anyone could be doing better.

"And there is considerable concern things might get worse."

He based his prediction on the 51 per cent of voters who are "certain" to vote
and a 2.7 per cent swing from Labour to the Tories.

He says: "The election result is not in doubt. It will be a triumph for Labour."

nigel.nelson@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              121 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

Blair clings to the Bono 'n' Bob bandwagon

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: Features; News; 20

LENGTH: 1158 words


'Every day there are thousands of people dying in Africa that don't need to.
What does that say about us?" - Tony Blair, Addis Ababa, last Thursday.

Oh, good question Tony. I suspect it says that we are horrible and callous. Or
merely impotent. By "us", I assume the prime minister was referring to
God-fearing, well-heeled and indifferent white people; in other words, the whole
of the western world except for Bono'n'Bob.

Or maybe he was referring to God-fearing, well-heeled white politicians like
himself, whose policies have exacerbated -although not created -some of the
problems that plague what used to be known, and should still be known, as the
dark continent.

Anyway, Bob Geldof has persuaded our prime minister to convene a commission for
Africa, so there will be much telegenic hand-wringing and earnest, well meaning
debate on display before the next general election.

The rest of us will be made to feel mean and bad, just like we do when we walk
the streets of London carrying an old copy of The Big Issue so we don't have to
buy a new one from the noisome, snaggle-toothed nutter at the entrance to the
Tube. And we will be convinced that our prime minister really, really cares,
even though there is not much that he can do about it because hey, he's just an
ordinary guy like you and me when it comes down to it.

Tony, as we know, is a sucker for celebs and particularly for celebs with a
conscience. The comment at the start of this article has the slight whiff of the
pop star celeb about it. It's the sort of thing you could imagine say, George
Michael, opining apropos of nothing to a gathering of sycophantic pop
journalists.

It has the distant echo of Spinal Tap satire about it, too. War is bad, peace is
good: what are we fighting for? Why are people dying all the time -it's not
fair.

Let's make love instead. And so on.

Tony has hooked himself up to the Bono'n'Bob Show and has been rewarded with
praise from both of them. Bono referred to Blair and Brown (Gordon) as the
Lennon and McCartney of international aid. Geldof -who knows a thing or two
about Africa and international aid -has reportedly been convinced by the prime
minister's sincerity, which makes him highly unusual.

Most celebs with a conscience have been deserting new Labour in droves, largely
as a result of the Iraq war, so Bono'n'Bob are something warm for the prime
minister to cling to in these troubled times. How about this for a variation on
the Blair statement, by the way: "Every day there are scores of people dying in
Iraq that don't need to. What does that say about me?"

I have never been convinced by the notion that the British public is swayed by
the presence of a celebrity on the political platform except possibly, in some
cases, in an adverse manner.

I do not believe Margaret Thatcher's thumping majority in 1983 was increased by
Lynsey De Paul and Lulu, and Errol out of Hot Chocolate singing her praises at
that cringeingly hideous pre- election rally. "No", as Lynsey might say,
"honestly". Nor was Labour's small recovery in 1987 down to the inestimable
support of Blakey, the inspector from On the Buses, and that doctor chappie from
EastEnders. Over here we view celebrities more knowingly than they do in, say,
the United States. We find celebrities entertaining but rather ludicrous and in
the end self-serving and we pay next to no regard to their political
affiliations.

This is a healthy perspective and stops us taking seriously the obsessions of
people such as David Icke (the world is controlled by a cabal of giant alien
lizards) and Yoko Ono (if we all stopped fighting there'd be, like, no war
ever).

Michael Howard's performance next year will not be enhanced by the equivocal
support of the pubescent toff pop group Busted -but Busted may find themselves
short of friends in the music press as a result.

Down the social scale a little -moving right along to the trailer park Jordan,
that attractive young woman with the frightening breasts, stood for election in
Manchester in 2001 and polled just 713 votes. You would bonk Jordan but you
certainly wouldn't vote for her. That's the British view and it seems to me an
eminently sensible one.

Tony, though, is convinced that celebs have an efficacious effect. I suspect
that he thinks he is one, which is why we are occasionally treated to comments
that to most people appear banal.

The irony, though, is that nowhere has Labour unravelled more quickly and
spectacularly than in foreign policy. Back in 1997 we were told that we would
have a government with an "ethical foreign policy" -but quickly this was changed
to a "foreign policy with an ethical dimension", which sort of implied that all
the other dimensions of our foreign policy, which were not enumerated, were de
facto unethical.

Then the "ethical" stuff was dropped entirely because it had become a bit
embarrassing. Clare Short, the overseas development secretary, told us that
Labour was pledged to eradicate world poverty for once and for all -a bold and
potentially onerous assignment, you might think. In the end Labour left poverty
alone and merely eradicated Short for once and for all, which is not quite the
same thing but a step in the right direction perhaps.

We have had more ethically inspired wars, as opposed to good old-fashioned
pragmatic wars, per minute of new Labour than we've had under any other domestic
government since 1066. And we have allied ourselves to a US government more
right-wing than the one over which Barry Goldwater would have presided over had
he won in 1964, alienated our natural friends and allies in Europe and enraged
the Arab world. This is remarkable stuff.

And what of Africa? Hey, guys; all those people dying -what does it say about
us? Well, you can count on the fingers of one hand the countries in Africa that
would not benefit from immediate and enforced regime change.

The problem facing Sudan and Somalia and Ethiopia and Equatorial Guinea et al is
not crippling debt but wicked or incompetent or corrupt governments. So maybe
Sandline and Mark Thatcher and Simon Mann are Africa's best hope, even if the
governments which they (allegedly) sought to install were only 10% better than
the ones they replaced. Political change in Africa will be incremental and
tortuous.

In the meantime, the prime minister could insist that we follow the UKIP line
and withdraw from the European Union, freeing us and it from the protectionist
iniquities of the common agricultural policy and enabling Britain to trade on an
equal free-market basis with the African nations.

Then instead of releasing those countries from the burden of repaying their
legitimate debts (in order to assuage our post- colonial guilt and as a
by-product inculcate in them a disregard for financial accountability), we could
make them pay. What do you reckon, Bono, mate?

rod.liddle@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

Tories pick the wrong enemy ... and a right-wing suicide

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 1373 words


'I said 'come with me and I will give you back your country' and nobody came."
The best line of the Conservative conference was delivered by its former leader,
William Hague, referring to the party's strategy at the last election. But if it
was meant to warn Tories against repeating his mistakes, this time nobody
listened.

Party delegates always tell you that there are two conferences, the upbeat one
that they experience, and a different one that is reported negatively in the
media. The observation is right, but they would be wrong to suppose that theirs
is the one that matters. What counts for a party is the impression that its
conference makes on uncommitted voters sitting at home.

Amid all the camaraderie and backslapping at Bournemouth it was impossible to
make a clear-headed judgment of the conference's impact on the public. Even
reports from journalists who were on the spot should be discounted. They cannot
possibly judge the event because they were there.

Certainly it was jolly. The Conservatives had attracted some young people. They
could be seen (I am told) in the bars at 4am, or tiptoeing from hotel rooms
other then their own at 7am, proving that Tories really are human. During the
debates, sensibly they hibernated. Naturally their reports of the conference are
glowing, if a little sketchy on the detail. Those who made it to the hall, more
traditional Tory types with a fierce sense of duty, heard what they wanted to
hear and departed in high spirits.

Sitting at home for much of the week, I heard first from Tim Collins, the
education spokesman, that the challenge for the party was to show that it was
the right-wing alternative because the electorate had moved that way. Then Tim
Yeo, who speaks on the environment, promised to crack down on gypsies. By Monday
Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, was talking about cuts in spending and
taxation (without specific promises). John Redwood appeared on the platform to
remind the public that far from being from another planet, he is again an
official party spokesman.

On Tuesday Michael Howard promised to denounce the United Nations refugee
convention and to pull Britain out of the common fisheries policy and the
European Union's social chapter. On Wednesday, David Davis, home affairs
spokesman, promised to get tough on immigration, "before it is too late".

The party produced an impressive list of things that it is against. If it said
that it was in favour of aspiration or fairness or success -which it probably
did -that did not make the headlines. Howard remembered to mention public
services, saying that he was for school discipline and more police, and against
dirty hospitals.

In a recent poll, respondents used a scale on which 0 was the centre point,
minus 100 represented the extreme left and plus 100 the extreme right. When
asked to describe their own positions, the aggregate score was minus 2, that is
people on average thought themselves fractionally left of centre. They placed
Labour MPs at minus 25, quite far to the left. In their view, Tony Blair was at
plus 6, marginally right of centre.

The prime minister is perfectly positioned on the scale. No cruise missile could
hit its target with greater precision. Between them, Blair and his party
straddle the ground occupied by middle Britain.

There now follows a quiz. If you were a Tory spin doctor, and you knew that
before the conference Howard's score was plus 54 (that is people consider him to
be twice as far to the right as Labour MPs are to the left) would you want to
use the party gathering to a) move towards the centre or b) move to the right?

Question two. Labour has dropped 10 points (one quarter of its votes) in the
opinion polls since 2001. In an important number of seats, the Liberal Democrat
came so close behind the Conservative MP at the last election that if just a
proportion of the Labour voters there decided to switch to Lib Dem the
Conservative would be defeated. So, if you were the Tories would you a) try to
persuade former Labour supporters to vote Conservative or b) direct your efforts
to attracting UK Independence party voters?

Question three. The Liberal Democrats have 55 seats in parliament and are
winning by-elections quite frequently. UKIP has no seats, and Europe is its
single issue.

As Hague discovered, Europe is not voters' top concern at general elections.

Understanding that, if you were a Conservative strategist would you a) counter
the Liberal Democrats by focusing on public services or b) repulse UKIP with
more aggressive language about Europe?

If your answer to any question was a) you clearly do not understand the Tory
party. Do not blame yourself: it really is difficult to comprehend. Howard,
Davis, Letwin and Collins all had a margin over their Liberal Democrat opponent
last time that was smaller than the Labour candidate's vote. On the other hand,
only in Howard's constituency did UKIP scrape more than 1,000 votes. Tory
spokesmen emphasise Europe because it is what interests them, not because it is
likely to win them office or even their own seat.

Maybe Redwood's return to the front bench persuaded Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire
businessman, to withdraw his funding from UKIP. If so, that coup may have come
at a high price. I am struck by members of the public who chortle about
Redwood's rehabilitation, seeing it as symbolic, indicating that the party has
scuttled further from the middle ground.

Their conference tactics were odd in another way. The main theme was that the
Tory party would restore integrity to politics. It would not overpromise for
fear of being incredible. It chose to illustrate its bona fides by offering a
timetable for its time in government. But only a small minority believes that
the party can win, so to many the timetable itself seemed incredible. So did the
view from the party co-chairman, Lord Saatchi, that Labour cannot win.

Howard told us that any minister who failed to deliver on commitments would be
fired. Perhaps the next Tory foreign secretary should keep a signed letter of
resignation in his pocket, because it is hard to see how he could extract
Britain from Europe's common fisheries policy and social chapter. Those new
promises are meant to draw anti-European votes away from UKIP, but it is hard to
see how committing to withdraw from a few of our European obligations can
compete with UKIP's clear-cut policy of leaving the European Union.

Once, when I was in the cabinet, I was so unimpressed by John Major's speech at
a party conference that I fled from Bournemouth to avoid having to comment on it
to the media. For the past two years I watched Iain Duncan Smith on television
and, though alone, blushed. Howard's speech was a great improvement.

But Major did not have to struggle to appear in touch with ordinary voters.
While his party appeared to be off to the right, he was clearly a figure of the
centre.

He did not bang on about gypsies, immigrants or Europe. Of course, he was routed
by a landslide, but not because he was insufficiently right-wing. Recalling
Major now, for all his shortcomings, and remembering the huge influence wielded
in the Tory government by those centrist figures Ken Clarke and Michael
Heseltine, it is easy to see why people think the Tories have shifted further
from the centre since their defeat.

It was Clarke who first alerted me to the dangers of confusing the Tory faithful
with the British public. It leads me to make a modest proposal to the
Conservatives (firmly tongue in cheek). At the next conference party members
should be banned from attending. Instead the audience should be made up of
voters of no political affiliation, chosen at random from those who rate
themselves on the scale between minus 25 and plus 25. Otherwise proceedings
would carry on as normal. Party spokesmen would make their speeches, but they
would have to think about what the country, rather than the Tory faithful, wants
to hear.

They could continue with extravagant calls to follow, as did Hague, and see
whether the public would come along. It would be less painful than finding out
at a general election.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              123 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 10, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; SOUND POLICIES BUT TORIES NEED TO BE SUPER SALESMEN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 270 words


THE truth of Harold Wilson's famous words that a week is a long time in politics
has again been borne out.

A week ago the Tories seemed unelectable. Now they have a fighting chance.

Before their party conference, they had been humiliated, ignominiously pushed
into fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election by the UK Independence Party.

Michael Howard's personal standing among voters was barely higher than that of
Iain Duncan Smith's a year ago.

Then the sun began to shine on the Tories, albeit weakly.

First, millionaire Paul Sykes withdrew support from Ukip and urged Eurosceptics
to vote Conservative. And then we heard words from Mr Howard that we have been
longing to hear from a politician. He denounced broken promises and pledged
accountability, responsibility and humility. He then set out his policies, which
are bursting with common sense. He is offering what this newspaper has
repeatedly asked for - more police, cleaner hospitals, lower taxes, controlled
immigration, discipline in schools.

But although we liked his wares, he did not sell them well. For all his many
faults, Tony Blair is a class act, a super salesman. To beat him at the polls Mr
Howard and all his Shadow Cabinet must learn to shine.

It is to Mr Howard's great credit that he eschews Blair's flashiness. But he
must show us that he is more than a clever lawyer. The Tories have turned a
corner but they still have a mountain to climb. They are being held back on
their journey by a lack of style.

The electorate wants a little theatre from their politicians. Being solid and
worthy is not enough.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              124 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

Mr Howard is teaching the Tory party to hate losing Politics There is no
pendulum in politics. The Tory leader's fine speech was a warning of the pain
that lies ahead

BYLINE: by Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: Features; Sunday Comment; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1503 words

As Michael Howard's advisers were putting the finishing touches to his
conference speech, they turned to his opening joke about Liverpool - the team he
supports - being beaten 1-0 by Chelsea last Sunday. The gag hinged on the
obvious political resonance of the team in blue beating the team in red. One of
his aides suggested that the Tory leader's joke should be that it was some
consolation for him as a Liverpool fan that the victorious Chelsea had been
wearing the Tory colours. "You don't understand!" Mr Howard said. "There is no
consolation for losing!"

All Opposition leaders say this in public - what else could they say? - but Mr
Howard says it in private, too, and means it. He and his team will be deeply
disappointed by our ICM poll today, which shows the Tory party, after its best
annual conference in years, a thumping nine points behind Labour. At a general
election, this would translate into a 154-seat majority for Tony Blair, and an
unprecedented crisis for the Conservative Party as it sifted through the ashes
of a third successive landslide defeat.

There are two possible Tory responses to today's poll: the first is for Mr
Howard to ditch the dignified strategy he unveiled last week and scramble for
whatever votes he can with whatever populist gimmicks he can dream up between
now and polling day. The second is for him to stick with a sound plan, and, in
the words of one shadow cabinet member, "bore ourselves stupid between now and
the election" by repeating the message of the conference again and again and
again. It is a rule of modern politics that the moment you start to feel
physically sick repeating a message is precisely the moment the voters start to
take note.

However depressed party strategists are today as they digest ICM's poll, they
would be mad to submit to pre-election panic and squander the assets accrued
last week. For the first time in more than a decade, the Conservatives' annual
seaside gathering was not dominated by speculation about the leadership. For
this, Dr Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, deserves much of the credit: it was he
who convinced an initially sceptical Mr Howard to shift his main speech from
Thursday to Tuesday. Traditionally, the leader's address has been the finale to
the week, but in recent years it has born the terrible burden of unifying a
party torn asunder by three days and nights of fractious fringe events and
nocturnal plotting. But last week the Tories took a leaf out of Labour's book,
scheduling the leader's speech early in the week. By Wednesday morning, with all
respect to Mr Howard's colleagues who gave their speeches after him, the
conference was all but over. By that stage, indeed, more attention was being
paid to the unexpected endorsement of the Conservatives by the teen band Busted
- or "Boom-and-Busted" as Labour strategists will surely rename them.

It helped, of course, that Mr Howard's speech was so good - a formidable return
to the style of confident restraint he launched 11 months ago when he declared
his candidacy for the party leadership at the Saatchi Gallery in London. It
passed through many hands, but the main troika was Rachel Whetstone, the Tory
leader's political secretary; Ed Vaizey, his principal speech-writer; and
Stephen Sherbourne, his chief of staff. There were many last-minute arguments.
Some wanted Mr Howard to be more savage in his attacks on the Prime Minister,
others less so. At the last moment, there was a flurry of anxiety that the
speech did not refer to the ban on hunting. There was a snap vote of the 10
people involved in its drafting: only one voted for hunting to be included.

When the history of the Tory recovery comes to be written - assuming it does
come to be written - this straw poll will deserve its footnote. The consensus
reached was not that Labour is right to outlaw hunting; rather, that Mr Howard
should be concentrating in his speech on issues that affected the nation as a
whole, rather than trying to assemble a coalition of angry single-issue groups.
The Tory position on hunting is perfectly well known to those who care about it.
Mr Howard's task is to win over those who are more worried about education,
health and crime.

In the course of the conference, an analysis by Lord Saatchi, Dr Fox's
co-chairman, of how to meet this challenge became all but orthodox. According to
this theory, the electorate can be usefully compared to a woman who has had her
heart broken by an untrustworthy Don Juan in the form of Tony Blair: he doesn't
even send her a pledge card on her birthday these days. What the voters want
now, to pursue the Saatchi analogy, is to settle down with a politician whom
they can count on, a practical chap who will mend the washing machine rather
than stand her up on a date because he has flown off to save Africa. This
explains Mr Howard's remorseless use of the word "accountability" and his mantra
that "we will only promise what we can deliver". This is Black & Decker
politics, the sturdy words of a reliable man who knows what he is doing about
the house. Mr Blair promised a Big Tent. Mr Howard promises a Big Shed.

There are risks attached to this. No relationship, electoral or otherwise, can
survive without the fizz of passion, which is what the senior Tory meant when he
quoted to me the maxim of the American conservative writer, George F Will:
"Statecraft is soulcraft." The Tory party's relationship with the voters has to
be visionary as well as contractual. So Mr Howard was right in his concluding
remarks on Thursday to celebrate the "hopes, dreams and ambitions" of the voters
he meets, and to look forward to "the horizons of the 21st century". It is easy
to dismiss these phrases as mere verbiage. But, in politics, as Orwell knew,
language is everything.

In language, too, lies a possible solution to the greatest electoral conundrum
facing Mr Howard. On the one hand, he faces polls which show that issues
traditionally considered "Right-wing" - particularly crime and immigration - are
likely to be of great importance at the next election. On the other, he and his
strategists are well aware of the potential toxicity of these themes in the Tory
party's hands: it was the great insight of George W Bush and his chief
strategist, Karl Rove, that conservatives who sound too abrasive scare off
middle-class swing voters. The risk, as one shadow cabinet member put it to me,
is "that we contaminate a message because it's us saying it".

It was no accident - though few spotted the allusion - that, in praising the
Swedish education system and the French health service, Mr Howard said: "I do
want to take you to a foreign land." This, I gather, was a quite deliberate echo
of William Hague's disastrous "foreign land" speech of March 2001, which warned
of sinister alien forces taking over this country, and epitomised for many the
worst of Mr Hague's so-called "skinhead politics".

Mr Howard's message, to the cognoscenti at least, was that he would not stoop to
such demotic depths. In private, he points out that it was not a Tory but David
Blunkett who said that schools might be "swamped" by refugee children. We shall
see if the Tory leadership can treat this most sensitive issue with the
restraint it deserves between now and polling day, resisting the temptation to
outflank UKIP (a xenophobic rather than a Eurosceptic party). But Mr Howard's
position, at least, is clear: he has promised to be Disraelian rather than
Powellite, and in the spirit of his speech, we should hold him to that promise.

On crime, as a former Home Secretary of distinction, I think the Tory leader is
on safer ground. He knows of what he speaks. Most difficult of all will be the
question of taxation, where Mr Howard must overcome the public's conviction - as
deep-rooted now as it is misconceived - that tax cuts automatically mean cuts in
public services.

The Tory leader's caution in this area of policy is causing him enormous
difficulty behind the scenes. But he has a decent holding position in demanding
"value for money for the taxes you pay". Labour wants to be able to say that a
Tory government would close "schools'n'hospitals" to fund tax cuts for the rich.
Mr Howard's response must be to ask, time and again what, precisely, the
taxpayer is getting in return for the increased membership fees Labour is
charging for the privilege of living in Britain.

"I go from thinking I'm watching the death of the Conservative Party to thinking
we are going to win the next election," one senior Tory told me. Neither, if
today's poll is any guide. This was a week in which the party caught in its
nostrils the scent of eventual recovery, and achieved, at last, a dim awareness
of the awesome price it will have to pay to get there. There is no pendulum
swinging back, no natural political order slowly but surely being restored.
Victory, as Labour learned the hard way, is not achieved in orderly heaves.
There is, as Mr Howard so rightly said, absolutely no consolation in defeat.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              125 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

No Third Way out of the EU

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 360 words

As a member of UKIP for nearly 10 years (no Johnny-come-lately) and an erstwhile
Conservative voter, I was not surprised to arrive at the regulation gratuitous
smear in your leading article (Comment, October 3). To deal with that first, I
would simply observe that more perverts, fornicators and con-men remain within
Conservative Party ranks than ever deserted them to embrace another political
organisation.

It is good to know, however, that you are sufficiently concerned about the UKIP
challenge to feel that they are worth insulting. You have evidently correctly
discerned that we must now be taken seriously.

With regard to the question of people like me wasting our votes, may I recall
the recent assertion by Michael Howard referring to EU membership? He first
stated that we had "a clear choice" - either of the New Labour/Lib Dem
integrationist philosophy, or the UKIP withdrawal policy. In his next breath,
and in seeming contradiction, he then postulated his own notion of a
middle-of-the-road approach (a "Third Way"?) of which Tony Blair in his heyday
would have been proud.

All Mr Howard needs to know is that we do not believe he would be permitted to
"re-negotiate" so much as a syllable of the treaties and agreements to which we
are already committed and that his ideas are not an option being offered by the
socialist bureaucracy across the Channel. Indeed, Mr Howard was right first
time; we have a clear choice.

Two of his recent actions belie his honeyed words. First, his re-establishment
of Conservative links with the federalist EPP grouping in the European
parliament indicate his true leanings. Second, his reintroduction of the
preposterous John Redwood to the front line of the political battle must give us
pause. I presume this is the same Mr Redwood who tried desperately to make
common cause with Kenneth Clarke in an unprincipled bid for stardom a little
while ago.

I trust I have conveyed some idea of why so many of us have fetched up in UKIP,
why the Conservatives languish in the opinion polls, and what Mr Howard needs to
accomplish in order to recover our support.

Gerald F Healy

Stockport, Cheshire

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              126 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

ICM poll shows Tories nine points behind Labour

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY AND MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 294 words

LABOUR IS heading for a third landslide general election victory, according to
an opinion poll for The Sunday Telegraph.

The ICM survey, the first to be carried out since the Conservative conference
last week, gives Labour - who had the support of 39 per cent of those questioned
- a nine- point lead over the Tories, who had 30 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats were on 23 per cent, while three per cent said that they
would back the United Kingdom Independence Party.

The results are a serious setback to Conservative hopes of a revival after the
party's conference in Bournemouth last week. The poll also shows that there
would be little difference to Labour support if Gordon Brown replaced Tony Blair
as leader.

It is the level of backing for the main parties, however, which will make the
grimmest reading for Michael Howard, the Conservative leader. If repeated in the
election, widely expected to take place next May, Labour would win a majority of
154 seats, only five fewer than its present 159.

Since a similar ICM poll last month, the Conservatives have seen their support
fall two per cent, while Labour is up three and the Liberal Democrats up one.

Mr Howard also lags behind Mr Blair on the issue of trust, which the
Conservative leader pinpointed in his conference speech. Asked which of the two
main party leaders they trusted more, 40 per cent said the Prime Minister while
29 per cent opted for the Opposition leader.

The results came as Robert Kilroy-Silk threatened UKIP members to make him their
leader or lose him. Interviewed by The Sunday Telegraph, he said: "What I am
doing is telling people 'put up or shut up'."

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,020 adults aged 18-plus nationwide by
telephone between October 6 and 7.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              127 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

'If you want me as leader, then do something about it' Robert Kilroy-Silk has
thrown down the gauntlet to UKIP, telling MELISSA KITE that members should
either put him at the helm or 'shut up'

BYLINE: By Melissa Kite

SECTION: News; Focus; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1252 words

To say that Robert Kilroy-Silk had thrown a fit of pique would be a grave
understatement. The former chat-show host turned guardian of British sovereignty
was clearly at the end of his tether when, in exasperated tones, he told The
Sunday Telegraph this weekend that he was done with playing leader.

"I'm not going to carry on running round the country," Mr Kilroy-Silk said in a
warning to UKIP members. "I'm not going to go on taking all the flak for the
party and having no authority to put things right. Stop asking me to take on the
burden of being leader without the leader's authority.

"What I am doing is telling people, 'Put up or shut up. Stop telling me you want
me to be leader. Do something about it.' "

His words were effectively a gauntlet thrown down to UKIP members, challenging
them to call for an extraordinary general meeting and a leadership vote - or
leave him alone. Throughout the telephone conversation, Mr Kilroy-Silk spoke at
breakneck speed and often sounded breathless.

"I'm treated as the leader, I'm asked by the leader of the party to be the
spokesman for the party, then he comes and asks me will I be deputy leader, then
he comes and asks me will I run the general election campaign.

"I can't carry on dissembling. I can't carry on like that. It has to be sorted
out."

The East Midlands MEP said he was sure in his own mind that the leadership had
been promised to him. He has told supporters that the incumbent, Roger Knapman,
had never expected to win his European seat in June and that arrangements had
then been made for Mr Kilroy-Silk to take over. When Mr Knapman did win, he
apparently changed his mind about the handover of power. According to Mr
Kilroy-Silk, Mr Knapman has clung on to the leadership because he is a "very
stubborn man and no one wants to hurt his feelings".

Mr Knapman vehemently denies this, saying that he has no intention of standing
aside until his tenure is up. At the thought of enduring another two years with
Mr Knapman at the helm, Mr Kilroy-Silk was on fire with indignation. "This is
not some kind of thing in my imagination," he said. "It is the assumption within
the party. This is why it's so invidious for me. We have a leader who doesn't
know what to do. Roger was ringing me all the time to ask me what to do. I would
say you must do that, he didn't do it, and I was right.

"I have had phone calls every single day. The party directs calls to me and that
is not fair. I enjoy doing it and I think I'm quite capable, but it is very
unfair to do that when I have authority without power."

Mr Kilroy-Silk believes that there are moves afoot to deliver him the
leadership. People, he said, were organising it. People, he said, kept ringing
him. "They say Yorkshire's solid behind you, or whatever. Your supporters
throughout the country are going to call for a vote."

If it all sounds a little paranoid, that is hardly surprising, after the events
of last week, when Mr Kilroy-Silk's friend and backer Paul Sykes spectacularly
ditched UKIP for the Conservatives. Mr Sykes, UKIP's biggest donor, had taken
issue with one of Mr Kilroy-Silk's comments about the need to "kill the Tories".

Mr Kilroy-Silk admitted to feeling let down by the defection because, he said,
during private conversations Mr Sykes had given no indication that he was
planning to change horses. "I don't know who the hell to trust," he has since
told friends.

Mr Sykes confirmed that he was switching his allegiance back to the Tories while
sitting next to Mr Kilroy-Silk during a bizarre interview on Channel 4 news last
week. "Paul and I want the same thing," Mr Kilroy-Silk had said during the
broadcast. "He believes in UKIP."

But Mr Sykes retorted: "I don't believe in UKIP. I believe in the message on
Europe."

"I'm pretty confident that if I want him to help in the East Midlands, he would
help," Mr Kilroy-Silk said with a nervous laugh.

Mr Sykes snapped: "Not in a general election campaign, I wouldn't."

It looked like a humiliating showdown. In fact, if Mr Kilroy-Silk's version is
to be believed, it was more like the bickering of a long-married couple or, in
daytime television parlance, a bit of a Richard and Judy moment.

"Paul and I go way back," Mr Kilroy-Silk told The Sunday Telegraph. "It's very
strange that he's decamped. All last week he was going to help fund the general
election campaign, if I was in charge of it."

Asked whether he had fallen out with Mr Sykes, Mr Kilroy-Silk laughed loudly. "I
can't get the man off the phone. He wants to fly me up to the North-East in his
jet this weekend to campaign against the referendum on regional assemblies."

In any event, Mr Sykes would not give the Tories any money, Mr Kilroy-Silk said,
suggesting that the Yorkshire businessman was simply keeping a foot in both
camps. He would like it to be known, too, that in the East Midlands - even
without the largesse of Mr Sykes - he has more money than he can spend. How much
exactly? "Let's just say six figures. Well, pounds 100,000 would be a
conservative figure. It's more than that it's enough for the full election
expenses of 10 constituencies."

When the dust had settled last week, Mr Kilroy-Silk was determinedly sticking to
his guns. Asked whether he still wanted to finish off the Tories even though the
stance seemed to have driven Mr Sykes away, he said: "Yeah, absolutely -
supplant them, replace them, kill them off. Do you think Thatcher wanted to kill
the Labour Party? Of course."

He went on to brand the Conservatives an "old party, not trusted, tells lies",
before accusing Conservative leader Michael Howard of misleading people by
promising to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union. "He's
either lying or he's incompetent," Mr Kilroy-Silk said.

But his vitriol was not reserved only for the Tories. He was scathing about the
UKIP leadership - "it's gone awol" - and what he viewed as its slim agenda
which, apart from EU withdrawal, amounted to "bring back matron and cottage
hospitals". However, asked for his own policy ideas, he gave a curious response.
"If I give you an answer to that question, which I can and would like to, I'm
going to be making it up," he said.

When pressed, he declared himself against the death penalty, in favour of
private health insurance (because he has it) and a supporter of hunting (because
a vixen recently ate his 30 rare Vietnamese pheasants which were imported at
great expense from Beijing Zoo to roam his garden).

He also denied that he was unpatriotic by living part of the year in Spain,
where he has a pounds 2 million villa on a 100-acre estate near Marbella. He
insisted that his main residence was a 17th-century manor house in
Buckinghamshire, home, incidentally, to Ozzy Osborne before him.

The former Labour MP, 62, struck a more modest note when questioned on why he
thought himself an obvious choice for UKIP leader. "The flatness of the
landscape," he said. "There isn't anybody else, that's all. Perhaps I'm the best
they have got. I'm no good, but that is what we have got to work with. If the
party wants to be more than just a pressure group, then that is the choice it
should make.

"It's up to you," he said, calling upon UKIP members. "If you want me to be
leader, you must find a way of it happening.

"If the party decides it doesn't want me, I'm very relaxed. There are other
things I could do."

Is he saying that he would leave UKIP altogether? "That is something I will have
to give considerable thought to."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              128 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

Didn't they do well? Shame nobody noticed There has not been a more united or
vigorous Conservative Party Conference in more than a decade. PATRICK HENNESSY
and MELISSA KITE report on a seaside gathering that went exactly to plan -
except for the public's reaction at the end

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY and MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Focus; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1924 words

In suite 123 at the Highcliff Hotel, the genial and portly figure of Lord
Hesketh, the Conservative Party treasurer, was playing host to the most
significant movers and shakers at the Bournemouth conference for the third
successive night. Entry to the bashes, where bottles of 1995 vintage Pol Roger
were on ice in the bath and cases of Chateau Ducru-Beaucaillou claret were piled
by the wall, was strictly controlled. Anyone who didn't matter didn't get in.
"My parties take days to warm up," Lord H (as he is universally known) declared
languidly, but the mass of bodies packed into his suite in the small hours each
night suggested otherwise.

Lord H also distinguished himself at what Nicholas Soames, newly returned to the
shadow cabinet as defence spokesman, described as an "epic lunch" at the Long
Beach restaurant. The larger-than-life pair ate three dozen oysters (simply an
"amuse-gueule", according to Mr Soames) before moving on to fish cakes, roast
beef, industrial quantities of chips and chocolate pudding. There was little
sign of the paranoid plotting of last year, when the most that Tory MPs could
risk was a cup of coffee and a sticky bun at Blackpool's Winter Gardens before
they returned to the subject of how best to skewer Iain Duncan Smith's
leadership.

At Bournemouth, the Conservative Party was more at ease with itself than it had
been for years, reflecting Michael Howard's disciplined approach. Instead of
endless discussion about the merits of rival leadership candidates, the private
talk in the bars, restaurants and marquees was about how, in the event of a
third successive defeat, Mr Howard could be persuaded to stay on. "We don't want
him to do what William Hague did in 2001 and simply quit the next day," said a
fast-rising shadow minister. "That would be a disaster. What we will need, after
three defeats, is a bit of continuity."

The approved party line, of course, was that everything was up for grabs next
year. Lord (Maurice) Saatchi, the Conservative co-chairman and election strategy
mastermind, had briefed shadow cabinet colleagues that internal polling was
putting the party ahead in more than 100 of its 160 target seats - enough to
ensure a hung parliament. Factor in months of splits between Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown, together with unquantifiable problems in Iraq, the theory went,
and the picture looked decidedly rosy. Lord Saatchi painted a picture of the
electorate as a wronged woman who felt betrayed by her partner and was wary of
any approaches from a new suitor, fearing that he would prove just as
untrustworthy. The main task for Mr Howard, the peer suggested, was to close the
credibility gap.

The strategy was helped along by a generally well-managed conference (albeit
marred by the pedestrian slogan "Timetable for Action") and a welcome opening
day boost when Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire-based businessman, announced that he
was pulling the plug on his funding of the United Kingdom Independence Party and
supporting the Conservatives instead. John Redwood, the Tory spokesman on
deregulation, was quick to claim the credit for striking the deal with Mr Sykes
behind the scenes, but others have suggested that the real middle-man had been
David Davis, the shadow home secretary, whose Haltemprice and Howden
constituency is in Yorkshire.

Almost every senior figure believed the Tories could only benefit from the Prime
Minister's declaration that he would quit after serving a third term. Lord
Saatchi ripped up his planned election slogan "Vote Blair, get Brown" in favour
of "Vote Blair, get who?"

On Tuesday, Mr Howard made the speech of his life, combining a measured
statement of Conservative values and policies with a highly personal account of
how, as the grandson of refugees who fled the Holocaust, he believed he owed
everything to Britain. Members of the audience, including at least two
frontbenchers, were openly in tears at the end of the address, forming an
instant "blubbering tendency" in senior levels of the party.

The speech contained the best line of the week, aimed squarely at Mr Blair's
messianic approach to voters and signalling that a key message of the Tory
election campaign would be an assault on Labour's record on public services.
"Most people don't actually want a date with destiny," Mr Howard declared of the
voting public, "they just want a date with a dentist." The party leader's
advisers insisted that the highly personal tone had been Mr Howard's idea and
that only his wife, Sandra, and a tiny coterie of aides had known that he was
going down such a sensitive path until the very last moment.

The idea of "personalising" leading Tories was taken up in a video, shown at
strategic points during the week, in which shadow cabinet members were asked to
describe their first kiss (unsurprisingly, few were prepared to do so) and to
reveal the latest CD they had bought. Though this provoked much hilarity, with
Mr Soames plumping for Dido and Liam Fox, the party co-chairman, trendily opting
for the Scissor Sisters, it at least achieved its initial aim of getting the
Conservatives more widely talked about. Other successes included signing up
Colonel Tim Collins, the Iraq war veteran, to attack Labour's defence cutsand
closing the conference with a speech from Jessica Lever, the 17-year-old
great-niece of Milton Friedman, the founding father of modern monetarism, who
attacked Labour's "shambolic" policies in education and urged fellow first-time
voters to join her in supporting the Conservatives next year.

Another boost for the

Tories came on Wednesday when Sandra Howard made history by becoming the first
leader's wife to make a speech at the conference. Wearing an elegant brown
trouser suit and pearls, Mrs Howard spoke movingly at a fringe event organised
by a drug addiction charity. She proved one of the conference's main
attractions, winning her audience over with a shy, understated approach. She
said: "I'm really sorry. I've been told I've got to learn to throw my voice, but
I haven't yet."

All this is not to say, however, that Bournemouth was all sweetness and light.
Familiar arguments rumbled on, behind the scenes, about which direction the
Tories should take in a range of policy areas. Whether - and by how much - the
Conservatives should promise to cut taxes played a central role, with some
shadow cabinet members, including Lord Saatchi, pressing for income tax
reductions targeted at the least well-off while others, including David
Willetts, the shadow Work and Pensions Secretary, preferred to concentrate on
council and inheritance tax. Some senior figures urged Mr Howard not to get too
hung up on tax cuts and to stress, instead, that the Conservatives would offer
better value for money in schools, hospitals and across the public sector if
they were in charge. The message appeared to have got through as the leader's
closing speech on Thursday emphasised this very point.

The net result of such backroom rows, however, was to leave Oliver Letwin, the
shadow chancellor, in the unenviable position of having to make a keynote
platform speech with nothing to put in it. He told his audience that it would be
"very, very easy" to promise tax cuts but that "no one out there would believe
us". The problem was that he had nothing else to offer them, and he accompanied
this non-message with a deliberately downbeat delivery and odd-looking chopping
hand movements. "I am very happy that Letwin is shadow Chancellor," one of
Labour's election planners said on Friday, anticipating a repeat of the farcical
scenes in 2001 when ministers paraded "wanted" posters featuring Mr Letwin's
face and forced him to go to ground after he unwisely promised massive spending
cuts under the Conservatives.

If Labour ministers are quietly making plans to exploit Mr Letwin during the
election, they are leaping up and down and shouting from the rooftops in delight
at the return to the shadow cabinet of Mr Redwood. The spokesman on deregulation
unwisely began his first conference platform speech after years in exile by
declaring, Arnold Schwarzenegger-style, "I'm back" and then launching into a
blistering denunciation of Brussels. The video clip is likely to be a staple of
Labour's election broadcasts as they attempt to hammer home the message that to
vote Tory would be to turn the clock back.

Neither are Mr Redwood's shadow cabinet colleagues prepared to hide their
feelings about him in private. "The man's fing mad," one said across the dinner
table. "If he was my dog, I'd have him put down." Another high-ranking Tory
official disclosed that Mr Redwood had been brought back even after Mr Howard's
"most senior advisers" had warned against doing so. The Tory leader's tactics,
in trusting that the Eurosceptic Right-winger would help bring UKIP supporters
back into the fold, appeared to be in direct conflict with the strategy of
winning back the hearts and minds of Middle Britain.

It was not only Mr Redwood who attracted the ire of progressive Tories. Even the
party's "Notting Hill set", the youth wing which includes rising stars such as
David Cameron, the party's policy co-ordinator, George Osborne, the shadow Chief
Secretary to the Treasury, and Rachel Whetstone, Mr Howard's political
secretary, came under fire for not having a coherent strategy for the future.
"I've seen no evidence whatsoever that any of these people are modernisers," a
senior official said bluntly. Those on the reforming wing of the party fear that
Mr Howard has retreated to the bunker. They complain that he barely listens to
anyone in his shadow cabinet and takes advice only from a tight circle of
advisers, including Mr Letwin, Lord Saatchi, Mr Cameron, Miss Whetstone and Ed
Vaizey, his speechwriter.

The Tories began their conference week from the worst possible springboard. The
party's fourth place behind the UKIP in the Hartlepool by-election was its worst
result in living memory and prompted some hasty and unconvincing attempts at
spinning the result, with claims that contests in Labour strongholds did not
matter and that all the Conservatives' resources were being concentrated in
marginal target seats. Morale was undoubtedly boosted during the week in
Bournemouth, but this morning, as Mr Howard and his senior colleagues digest the
findings of the ICM opinion poll for The Sunday Telegraph, it is hard to imagine
that they will be filled with any other emotion than gloom.

An opposition party confident of a victory in a general election expected in
just seven months' time should be enjoying a healthy lead in the polls. Instead,
our survey shows Tory support "flatlining" at just 30 per cent, nine points
behind Labour and three per cent lower than the share of the vote obtained by
the Conservatives in the disastrous 2001 election.

For all the gloom, it is indisputable that the Tories did make some progress at
Bournemouth last week. Morale was certainly higher than it has been for several
years and the party at least put on a public show of unity, even if this did
mask in-fighting beneath the surface. The question for Mr Howard is, will the
shock of today's poll results lead him towards the Right-wing stance on Europe
and immigration - "dubbed skinhead politics" - that Mr Hague adopted in 2001? Or
will he hold his nerve, and stick to the strategy of fighting the election on
schools, hospitals and other public services, and pouring resources into the
100-plus key seats the party must win from Labour? Either way, there are
turbulent times ahead.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              129 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 10, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY ON SUNDAY: IT'S THE SAME OLD TORY

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 425 words


MICHAEL Howard put trust in politicians at the centre of his appeal to the
voters. "We are going to be straight with people," he said. "What a difference
that will make." How true, particularly for Howard. Let's see how he measures
up.

Cutting waste and unnecessary government spending. The Tories attempted to do
this in the early days of John Major.

David Mellor, then financial secretary to the Treasury, identified pounds
1billion worth of cuts from useless projects at the Department of Employment.

These cuts were fought tooth and nail by the minister who demanded - and
received - a massive pounds 470million budget increase. No prizes for guessing
the free-spending minister.

Howard promised to build a load of new prisons to house all the extra people he
plans to bang up. He won't. Prisons are notoriously difficult projects. Nobody
wants them near their home, planning inquiries and objections go on forever, and
building them even longer. Howard should know - he ran into exactly this problem
when Home Secretary.

Still on crime. He made great play about a visit to Brixton where he "saw the
problem the community is up against" but didn't see a single policeman.

In fact crime in Brixton has dropped enormously. Mugging, burglary and car crime
all well down and overall figures show a 2,000 drop year on year. Howard was
scaremongering, with a juicy bit of racial subtext thrown in.

One of the reasons politicians are held in such low esteem is they dance to the
tune of those who bung them cash. Howard is as bad as the rest.

Second-hand bus salesman Paul Sykes decided to switch his chequebook from the UK
Independence Party to the Tories after a series of secret talks with Mr Spock,
aka John Redwood, the loopy right- winger who was released from his straitjacket
and returned to the Shadow Cabinet a month ago. Funny that.

Howard's way with health and education - two public services savaged and then
ignored by nearly 20 years of Conservative rule - was airily to admit past
mistakes in the fond assumption this pardoned the terrible neglect of which he
was an integral part.

The Tory leader is doing nothing more than phonies have always done. Promising
you more for less.

If he really wanted to regain the nation's trust he should promise to improve
health and education - while telling us we would have to pay for it with
increased taxes.

Or slash taxes, ignore public services, let the greedy rich fill their boots and
sod the rest.

Now that is a Tory message we can all trust.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              130 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2004, Saturday

GAMBLER'S CORNER: ONE FOR THE HEAD AND THE HEART

BYLINE: STAN HEY

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 269 words


It was my old MP Harold Wilson who used the phrase a week is a long time in
politics' back in the 1960s. Now, in a time of 24/7 media coverage, one single
day is long enough. Take the first Kerry-Bush debate. Not long after the
feedback on Kerry's presidential performance and Bush's imitation of Troy
Tempest, we heard Tony Blair would step down after a third term as Prime
Minister.

We suddenly glimpsed a future without Dubya and Tony. Since then, Mr Kerry's
running-mate John Edwards has held his own against the man who serves the Bush
Dynasty, Dick Cheney, while the case for war against Iraq is unravelling further
after insidious statements by Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defence Secretary, and
Paul Bremer, the former US pro-consul in Iraq.

Kerry, who was as high as 9-2 last Spring, has been backed in, first to 6-4 and
now to 11-8, from 2-1. Bush has eased to 8-15. These are William Hill prices,
although Ladbrokes still offer 13-8 on a Democrat victory. The gambling mind
will say that Kerry has timed his run too late. Yet betting is often a wish
fulfilment too - so Kerry must be backed.

Over here, the election seems set for late May, and Hills are so sure Labour
will win most seats that the price is 1-6. Their most intriguing bet is a 9-1 on
the Lib Dems winning more seats than the Tories, thanks to the ongoing Tory-UKIP
sitcom. Again it's wish fulfilment rather than hard-headed bet. Tony Blair's
departure is expected in 2006 by Hills who give it 11-8 - I prefer the 100-30
for 2007. As for his successor, Gordon Brown seems nailed-on at 1-3 - one for
the head and the heart.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2004, Saturday

VOTERS SHUN HOWARD'S ATTEMPT TO WIN BACK THEIR TRUST

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR Delegates at the Labour conference in
Brighton Chris Ison/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words


LABOUR IS on track for a third general election victory and the voters have
spurned Michael Howard's attempt to win back their trust, according to an
opinion poll by NOP for The Independent.

The first survey taken since the party conference season ended suggests the
Tories' strategy of unveiling the policies they would implement in their first
days in power has failed to impress the public. In a severe setback for Mr
Howard, almost three out of four voters (73 per cent) do not believe his pledge
to be different from politicians who have broken their promises; only 19 per
cent believe he will do as he says.

The poll of 1,000 people puts Labour in the lead with 36 per cent, two points
ahead of the Tories on 34 per cent. The Liberal Democrats are on 21 per cent,
which suggests the bounce they received from their successful conference last
month has not been maintained. The findings, if repeated at a general election,
would give Labour an overall majority of 84.

According to the survey, Gordon Brown is the overwhelming favourite among both
the public and Labour supporters to succeed Tony Blair when he stands down.
Asked whether they would prefer Mr Brown or the man seen as his main rival, Alan
Milburn, 54 per cent opt for the Chancellor and only 12 per cent want Mr
Milburn, who was appointed Labour's policy and elections chief last month.

Mr Brown has an even more commanding lead among Labour supporters; 72 per cent
want him to take over when Mr Blair quits, while a mere 8 per cent prefer the
Blairite Mr Milburn. The former Health Secretary enjoys most support among
people who intend to vote Tory - but they still prefer Mr Brown by a margin of
47 per cent to 16 per cent. Mr Brown is also more popular among Liberal Democrat
supporters, 68 per cent of whom favour him, against 14 per cent for Mr Milburn.
A quarter of all voters are undecided about who they want to be the next Labour
leader, while 9 per cent opt for other candidates.

But NOP's most striking finding is the overwhelming rejection of the centrepiece
of Mr Howard's strategy at an upbeat Tory conference in Bournemouth this week.
In an attempt to combat widespread scepticism towards all politicians, the Tory
leader unveiled a "timetable for action" of 28 modest but deliverable pledges to
be implemented within a month of the party forming the next government.

The most gloomy finding for Mr Howard is that he has not even convinced a
majority of Tory supporters that he would keep his promises, let alone the
people his party needs to woo if it is to pose a serious threat to Labour .
While a total of 49 per cent of Tory voters believe that Mr Howard would be
different to other politicians and deliver his pledges, some 39 per cent do not.
NOP's survey suggests that Mr Howard's appeal on Thursday for Labour and Liberal
Democrat supporters to switch to the Tories is likely to fall on deaf ears: only
9 per cent of Labour supporters and 14 per cent of Liberal Democrats believe his
promise to be different.

The Tories may well argue they were not necessarily expecting an immediate
breakthrough, and know they will have to keep repeating their "action not words"
message for it to hit home. But the findings suggest they may struggle to break
through the wall of cynicism about all politicians' claims. There is, however,
one crumb of comfort for the Tories. They have a big lead over Labour among
older people, who are more likely to vote than other groups. Among people aged
55 and over, the Tories are on 40 per cent, Labour 29 and the Liberal Democrats
21. With pensions likely to be a key issue in the run-up to the election, the
finding will fuel Labour jitters about the possible impact of "grey power" next
May.

The UK Independence Party (UKIP), which wants Britain to withdraw from the
European Union, has the backing of 4 per cent of the public - not enough to
secure any MPs, and way below the 16 per cent the party achieved in the UK
European Parliament elections in June, when it pushed the Liberal Democrats into
fourth place.

NOP's findings will be a setback to Charles Kennedy's party, which has been
scoring in the mid-20s in other recent polls. Although the Liberal Democrats are
doing much better than in the last parliament, our survey suggests they may
struggle to make a major advance at the general election.

The poll reveals the Liberal Democrats are much more popular among women than
men. The party has the backing of 27 per cent of women, but only 17 per cent of
men. Both Labour and the Tories are more popular among men than women.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              132 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2004, Saturday

THREE WEEKS OF HOT AIR, AND WHAT HAS CHANGED? NOT A JOT;
 ANALYSIS

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 517 words


THE GREAT annual rolling political show is over for another year. Tony Blair
indicated he wanted four more years. Michael Howard asked us to trust him.
Charles Kennedy finally said what his party stands for. And all three carefully
weighed their every word in what was, supposedly, the last vital conference
season before the next general election.

Yet all the hot air has, it seems, made not a bit of difference. Just before the
Liberal Democrats gathered in Bournemouth, the polls on average put Labour two
points ahead of the Conservatives, with the Liberal Democrats on 23 per cent.
Our NOP poll, conducted as the conference season drew to a close, suggests that
Labour is still two points ahead, while the Liberal Democrats are still running
at above 20 per cent.

Among those voters who say they are certain to vote in a general election,
Labour's lead by 36 to 34 per cent, and the Liberal Democrats score 21 per cent.
Among all those who have a party preference, the figures are the same: Labour
are two points ahead, by 35 to 33 per cent; the Liberal Democrats, 22 per cent.

Before the conference season, Labour were favourites to win the next election,
but appeared to face the prospect of a much tougher battle than in 1997 or 2001.
The survey suggests this remains the outlook.

Nevertheless, these figures may still come as something of a relief for the
Tories. Two polls conducted straight after their disastrous fourth place in
Hartlepool put the party below 30 per cent. It seemed as though another chapter
in the slow death of the Conservative Party was about to be written. The party
may now at least have clawed back the one-third or so of the vote on which it
has been firmly stuck for most of the past three years. But it must be concerned
that 4 per cent currently say they would vote UKIP - a figure that could
transform the Tories' prospects.

In any event, Mr Howard's attempt to persuade us that he can be trusted to keep
his promises cannot take much credit for the apparent steadying of the Tory
ship. Just 19 per cent believe he will be different from Mr Blair or John Major;
nearly three-quarters do not. Even among Conservative supporters, just under
half say they believe their own party leader.

But if Mr Howard's hopes of becoming Britain's next Prime Minister still look
remote, Mr Blair's supposed protege as his successor, Alan Milburn, has yet to
make much impact on voters. Just 12 per cent say they would like Mr Milburn to
take over when Mr Blair goes. No less than 54 per cent say they would like
Gordon Brown to succeed Mr Blair. Labour supporters back Mr Brown even more
decisively, by 72 to 8 per cent. Mr Brown has a clear lead among all classes,
all age groups and both genders. It looks as though the Tory slogan, "Vote
Blair. Get Brown", is more of a promise than a threat.

Not that this means Mr Milburn cannot be the next Labour leader. Little known
candidates won the Tory leadership in 1997 and 2001. But that can hardly be
considered a happy precedent.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              133 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2004, Saturday

WHY PM'S STRATEGY HAS ONLY FUELLED SPECULATION;
 WEEK IN POLITICS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 879 words


WHEN TONY Blair addresses Labour MPs on Monday as the Commons resumes after a
break for the party conference season, he will be hoping that his backbenchers
feel that not much has changed.

At first glance, things are pretty much as they were. Today's NOP poll for The
Independent suggests Labour is on course for a third general election victory,
the Liberal Democrats' conference bubble may have burst and Michael Howard's
"trust me" appeal has bombed because people don't trust politicians.

But I suspect that as Labour MPs look at their leader, they will feel that a lot
has changed. The most dramatic, far-reaching event of the past three weeks was
the triple whammy Mr Blair launched on an unsuspecting political world after
Labour's policy announcements in Brighton had been overshadowed by Iraq: his new
heart treatment, his purchase of a pounds 3.6m house and, most significantly,
that he would serve a full third term if Labour wins the election.

Mr Blair's remarkable statement of intent was meant to quell speculation about
his future. Yet I suspect his backbenchers will be speaking about little else as
they gather in the Commons tea rooms and bars on Monday. By reminding us of the
blindingly obvious - that he would cease being Prime Minister one day - Mr Blair
has changed the terms of political trade until the day when he finally departs.

That is certainly not what he intended. But the feeling in Labour ranks is that
everything has changed; that the post-Blair era is coming even if it takes a
long time to arrive. Mr Blair has no regrets, I am told. He expected the initial
flurry of speculation about the Labour succession. He hopes there will now be no
media frenzy after the election about when he will stand down. He feared that
his third term would be washed away in a torrent of such speculation.

I am not so sure. Mr Blair will probably keep the show on the road until the
election. No one, not least Gordon Brown, the clear front-runner to succeed him,
wants to be blamed for rocking the boat - and a poor election result. John
Prescott has made clear he will stamp on anyone who steps out of line. But I
suspect that discipline will break down after the election and that Mr Blair
will find it difficult to complete his full term.

One interesting feature of the conference season was that both Mr Blair and Mr
Howard adopted a less confrontational style in their speeches - an
acknowledgment that politicians have been fighting amongst themselves and
turning the voters off.

This was a back-handed tribute to Charles Kennedy, who does not need
image-makers or focus groups to tell him to be more human and less of an actor.
That comes naturally to him.

He was back on form at his party's successful Bournemouth conference, putting
his illness behind him and no longer looking as though he was asking himself:
"What the hell am I doing here?" The Liberal Democrats had a successful week.
The two main parties - and the media - are taking them much more seriously,
which is overdue. But they will have to work hard to avoid cracks appearing in
their policy programme at the general election.

The Tories had a good week, too. The grown-ups are back in charge of the party
and it was their best conference for several years. But I couldn't help thinking
that they were whistling to keep their spirits up. True, that needed to be done.
If they don't think they've got a chance, they are not going to convince the
rest of us.

The biggest danger to the Tories is that people think they are a "wasted vote",
as Mr Kennedy told his conference. He knows how it feels; this problem has
blighted the third party for years - and may do so again next May. The Tories
also need to convince people the election is a two-horse race to stop
Eurosceptics backing the UK Independence Party because they think the Tories
have no chance.

As The Independent's survey suggests, life will be harder for the Tories in the
real world than in their Bournemouth bubble. Lord Saatchi, the party's
co-chairman, lifted Tory spirits by disclosing that the party's polling showed
it would gain 103 of its 130 Labour-held target seats - enough to produce a hung
Parliament. Lord Saatchi was described to me this week as one of the three
people who matter in the Tory party - the others being Mr Howard and Oliver
Letwin. But his poll sounds a bit dodgy, as it implies that the Tories are doing
badly in their safe seats - unless all the nationwide opinion polls are wrong.

I would like to see the full details of the Tory survey. An internal Tory report
on the council by-elections held since June paints a rather different picture.
The Tories have won 33 per cent of the votes cast, ahead of the Liberal
Democrats on 28 per cent and Labour on 25 per cent. But compared with previous
elections in the same seats, the Tory vote is up by only 0.85 points, with
Labour down six points and the Liberal Democrats up 4.5 points. The Tories have
made a net gain of 49 council seats but the Liberal Democrats have gained 48,
while Labour has lost 32. The mood of the electorate is volatile. Many voters
have fallen out of love with the two big parties and are looking around. That
makes the election much more unpredictable than it looks.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              134 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 9, 2004, Saturday

The Week That Was Britain

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 1382 words


Judge overrules parents

Mr Justice Hedley went against the wishes of Debbie and Darren Wyatt, ruling in
the High Court that their 11-month-old daughter, Charlotte, born three months
prematurely and now terminally ill and permanently sedated, should not be
artificially resuscitated again. He did not believe that "further aggressive
treatment, even if necessary to prolong life, is in her best interests". None of
the doctors who gave evidence could be identified for fear of attacks by
"pro-life" activists.

Howard's top ten

Michael Howard, who a Times poll showed was faring worse at the start of the
Conservative Party conference than Iain Duncan Smith a year ago, summarised the
party's election appeal in ten words: "School discipline, more police, cleaner
hospitals, lower taxes, controlled immigration". Lord Saatchi, the party
chairman, said that if Tony Blair remained Prime Minister he "could not imagine
any way Labour could win".

Upbeat Blair

Tony Blair left hospital, heartbeat corrected, to face press comment on his
newly acquired £3.6 million house in Connaught Square, Central London, and the
possibility that his plan to retire after serving a full third term, if
re-elected, might make him a lame-duck Prime Minister. It did not seem so as he
returned to business as usual, announcing among other things that Alastair
Campbell would play a role in the election.

Silk cut

Robert Kilroy-Silk, leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), cost it
financial support from Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire property tycoon, by declaring
that its mission should be to kill the Tory party. Mr Sykes, who gave the UKIP
£1.4 million this year, was also aggrieved by its conference decision to oppose
Eurosceptic MPs at the general election. He said that he would not fund the
party any further until the election. A Kent businessman, Alan Brown, who had
already given the UKIP £500,000, offered to compensate.

Spooled out

Kodak announced closure of its film factory in Annesley, Nottinghamshire, after
a much swifter decline than it had anticipated in film sales as people switched
to digital cameras. Demand fell about 16 per cent this year and analysts said
eventually film was likely to survive only in niche areas such as disposable
cameras and professional photography.

Hamilton sting

Neil Hamilton, the former Conservative MP, and his wife, Christine, played a
part in a Hampshire police operation in which offenders were sent bogus
invitations to appear on a television quiz show and were arrested after their
make-up was applied. Of the 161 offenders who fell for it, 17 are liable to see
themselves featured in a Five film of the operation called The Great Big
Giveaway Show.

Mother love

Mona al-Khatib gave up £17.5 million from her record divorce settlement as the
price of reaching agreement with her former husband, Abdullah Masry, for access
to her four youngest children. Dr Masry, a Saudi Arabian businessman, had taken
the children to Jeddah and refused to pay Ms al-Khatib any of the High Court's
£26.5 million settlement awarded in 2002. The couple reached a new agreement in
the Court of Appeal under which Ms al-Khatib will see the children in the school
holidays. She said that the financial loss was insignificant compared with
seeing her sons and daughters again.

Asda, we have a problem

Andy Tyler, 35, from Suffolk, showed off his rocket- powered shopping trolley
built from scrap and based on a trolley chassis fished from a local river. Using
technology which powered German V1 "doodlebugs" in the Second World War, the £50
vehicle reaches 50mph and holds a straight line but is so noisy that it hurts Mr
Tyler's ears.

Kicked upstairs

Jonny Wilkinson, the tough-tackling genius who kicked England's rugby union team
to the 2003 World Cup, was named England captain in succession to Lawrence
Dallaglio and so will lead the attempt to retain the trophy in 2007.

Not a numskull

A skull unearthed from a medieval cemetery at the deserted village of Wharram
Percy in North Yorkshire revealed the life-saving work of an Anglo-Saxon brain
surgeon in the 10th or 11th century. The skull was that of a man who had been
struck a near-fatal blow with a blunt instrument but a rectangular area had been
lifted from the scalp to relieve pressure and to remove bone fragments. The
patient had evidently made a good recovery and lived many more years before
dying of unrelated causes.

Dirty work

The Idler magazine published a book called Crap Jobs in which it had collected
the 100 most dreadful anecdotes that it had received of experiences in various
forms of employment. Among the jobs to avoid at all costs, it seems, are pea
checker, garlic grader, chilli sauce bottler, sex-line operator, North Sea ferry
cabin cleaner, cold caller, sandwich filler and pig semen collector. Oh, and
journalist.

Read her lips

Sir Elton John made a vitriolic attack on Madonna at the Q magazine awards
ceremony when he heard that she had been nominated as Best Live Act. Sir Elton
accused her of lip-synching -miming to recorded music -on a recent tour and
declared that anyone who lip-synched when people had paid £75 to see them
perform "should be shot".

Madonna's spokeswoman said: "Madonna does not lip-synch nor does she spend her
time trashing other artists."

Veteran cleared

A lorry driver, Willian Bough, 48, of Garstang, near Preston, was cleared by
magistrates after crashing into a wall while three and a half times over the
legal alcohol limit. Magistrates accepted that Mr Bough, a Gulf War veteran
suffering from post-traumatic stress, had been sleepwalking when he set off.

Hit-and-run balloon

David and Halina Woolford, of Oakham, Rutland, had the roof of their Pounds
500,000 home caved in by a hot-air balloon that crashed. In defiance of
ballooning etiquette, the crew fired up its flame and was up, up and away
without providing the couple with insurance details.

BNP man's win

Jay Lee, a British National Party activist, won at least £5,000 compensation
after an employment tribunal ruled that his union, Aslef, had no right to expel
him for his political activities. Brendan Barber, general secretary of the
Trades Union Congress, deplored the ruling, saying that union members should not
be forced to associate with racists and fascists. Keith Norman, acting general
secretary of Aslef, said that it was perverse that Mr Lee could be compensated
although he had suffered no financial loss, while there was no such minimum
award for workers suffering racial discrimination or sacking.

Conkers bonkers

After a school head, Shaun Halfpenny, of Cummerdale Primary School, Carlisle,
required children to wear safety goggles when playing conkers, it emerged that
another head teacher, Veronica O'Grady, of Menstrie Primary School, in
Clackmannanshire, had banned the game because two of her pupils had nut
allergies. Mrs O'Grady said that she had consulted a dietician from Stirling
Royal Infirmary before deciding that her school must be a "nut-free zone".

Fish is off

Michael Fish, Britain's longest-serving and most eccentrically dressed
weatherman, retired after 30 years adorning television screens with isobars,
wind arrows and storm clouds. For ever linked with his assurance that no
hurricane was coming in October 1987, when 19 people and millions of trees
perished, Mr Fish has ever since carried sunglasses and an umbrella in case the
weather changes unexpectedly.

He intends to learn the drums and may start a group called Michael Fish and the
Hurricanes.

Penny wise

A solid gold penny described as Britain's most important coin find for a
century, discovered by a man walking his dog, was auctioned for £230,000. Struck
in the Wick of Lundene (London district) in the reign of Coenwulf, King of
Mercia from 796 to 821, the penny was bought by an American collector who outbid
the British Museum.

Gardies' guardians

The Gardenia kebab and fish and chips restaurant in Cambridge -"Gardies" -was
reprieved from demolition by Gonville and Caius College to make way for an
accommodation block after intervention by Varsity, the student newspaper, and
8,000 petition signatories, including Michael Portillo and Stephen Fry.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION:  In para 'Silk cut': Kilroy-Silk is NOT the UKIP leader. At end:
Alan Bown (NOT Brown).

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 8, 2004

Out-of-fashion Ofex in rescue price shock

BYLINE: JAMES QUINN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 85

LENGTH: 323 words


A Pounds 3m rescue-funding package for fledgling stock exchange Ofex home to the
Queen's tailor Hardy Amies and Premiership team Arsenal could be priced as low
as 1p a share.

The deal, just 18 months after it floated at 25p a share, may be announced today
after 11th-hour meetings with investors.

City sources were last night divided on final pricing, with at least one senior
figure suggesting the mooted 5p a share placing had dropped as low as 1p, an
87pc discount to last night's 73/4p close.

The cash is needed to keep Ofex running beyond its selfimposed November
deadline.

It has been hit by a lack of new companies floating and a stream of firms moving
up to the junior Aim market. It made losses of Pounds 533,000 in the six months
to June.

The deal will not make happy reading for would-be buyer Zyzygy, led by UK
Independence Party director Andy Moore.

But one broker predicted that even if the money is raised, there will be an
exodus of companies from the market. 'Rather than death by one cut, it will be
death by 140 cuts,' he declared, with reference to the number of companies on
Ofex.

The placing will dilute the 55pc of the founding Jenkins family, led by
patriarch John.

It will also anger 6.3pc holder and Channel 4 boss Luke Johnson. When told of
the financial woes by John's son, Jonathan, he allegedly replied: 'My only
consolation is that you've lost more money than I have.' Jonathan's role as
joint managing director, with sister Emma, will now be under the spotlight, with
many in the Square Mile tipping business development director Simon Brickles,
the former head of Aim, for the top job.

Hardy Amies announced a Pounds 2.04m fundraising to back its latest ready-towear
collection.

WHAT TOP OFEX COMPANIES ARE WORTH

Daniel Thwaites: Pounds 121m

Arsenal Holdings: Pounds 102m

Shepherd Neame: Pounds 90m

W H Brakspear: Pounds 60m

Rangers FC: Pounds 56m

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TAILORED TO SUIT HARDY AMIES, BUT SOME COMPANIES HAVE LEFT THE
FLEDGLING MARKET

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              136 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 8, 2004

Smith off as Kent count cost of row

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 91

LENGTH: 623 words


SERIOUS unrest in the Kent dressing room is behind the departure of two of the
county cricket club's best players.

England Test batsman Ed Smith, the central figure in the controversy, has signed
for Middlesex, while promising all-rounder Alex Loudon is going to Warwickshire.

The trouble dates back to the publication of Smith ' s acclaimed book about the
2003 season, On and Off the Field, the year when he made his England debut after
a run of big county scores but failed to cement his place in the national side.

Kent captain David Fulton was so incensed about some passages in the book that
he was understood to be contemplating legal action.

The animosity reached a peak when Smith deputised as captain for the injured
Fulton in a match against Worcestershire last summer and two senior players
refused to obey instructions about fielding positions and were hostile to him.

The row led to Kent's cricket committee chairman Mike Denness resigning.

Smith demanded a clear-the-air meeting with Kent chief executive Paul Millman,
Fulton, Australian international Andrew Symonds and England batsman Robert Key.

It was explained that the players were upset about Smith allegedly having a
clause about being the next captain of Kent written into his playing contract.

Millman insisted that no such clause existed and the atmosphere in the dressing
room improved, but Smith and Loudon, his main ally, have still decided to pursue
their careers elsewhere.

THE drugs unit who turned up at England's Lowry Hotel base in Manchester
yesterday took no chances after Rio Ferdinand's eightmonth ban for evading
testers at United's Carrington training ground in September 2003.

The three players chosen for the random test, who included Ashley Cole, were
man-marked by officials from the moment they arrived, through lunch, until they
had provided a sample. A spokesman insisted that it was just coincidence that
they decided to test the England squad on Ferdinand's return to international
duty.

FRANK MALONEY has resigned from the UK Independence Party because he believes
Robert Kilroy- Silk has been hogging the limelight too much. The boxing boss is
now an admirer of Tory leader Michael Howard, who, he says modestly, borrowed
some of the points in his conference speech this week from Maloney's campaign to
be London mayor.

MANCHESTER CITY fans, disillusioned with Kevin Keegan's regime, were hopeful
that the ex-England boss would soon be on his way with news that he was selling
his flat in Hale, south Manchester. However, Keegan owns two properties in the
same block and is just putting the one vacated by former City goalkeeper David
Seaman on the market, while he continues to use the other.

Rio's fly-on-the-wall

A TV documentary on Rio Ferdinand's ban and how he coped with being out of the
game for eight months is being made by the independent Mob Film Company.

They were at Old Trafford yesterday to collect footage of the defender being
interviewed by the media.

The company have also filmed Ferdinand watching England v France at Euro 2004 on
television at his Manchester home, in Miami on holiday and on preseason tour in
America.

Surprisingly, both the FA and Manchester United are in agreement, for a change,
in allowing access to the filmmakers.

NEWCASTLE did not disclose payments to agents in their annual report yesterday.

Chairman Freddy Shepherd is believed to oppose strongly any transparency in this
direction. But the total is understood to be less than seven figures for the
year, which makes the Pounds 1.2million Manchester United paid Dutch agent
Rodger Linse just for renegotiating Ruud van Nistelrooy's latest deal all the
more shocking.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              137 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 8, 2004

VIDEO IS KISS OF DEATH FOR TORIES

BYLINE: JONO COLEMAN

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 516 words


HI there, playmates. It's me again to ruin the end of your week with my slightly
bent look at what's caught my eye in last five days.

I think the most embarrassing bit of the week was when I got sent the
touchy-feely promo video from the Conservative Party.

I must admit it was sent to me by a mate at ITN so I thought it was a joke that
someone had thrown together in an editing room for the Christmas party.

I have to admit I laughed a lot. It looked like one of those spoofs that they do
on Bremner Bird and Fortune or Deadringers.

But it was real and featured proper, paid-up Tory Party members and shadow
ministers talking about their first kiss and, better still, the last CD that
they bought - or their PA bought for them, more like. It was so believable I
almost ate my trousers.

I read in The Star that they actually played the tape at the party conference.

If you ever wanted a video to make a bunch of slightly Posh Pollies look even
more out of touch and stupid, this was it.

It actually looked like it was put together by the Labour Party to make the
Tories look even worse.

The sight of slightly rotund Nicholas Soames talking about his first kiss
leaving him scarred for life was spoton, even though he meant it as a joke.

Michael Ancram showed how hip he was and down with the kids by nominating
Meatloaf as his favourite listen - right on, dude. I was most impressed that
Soames chose Dido as his favourite, but he may have been talking about a lady
pleaser.

THERE were even a couple of well-placed votes for Mr Butch himself, Will Young.
Perhaps you can guess the Pollies who like a bit of Muscles' music. Tim Collins,
Shadow Education Minister, was one. That's OK, I've never heard of him either.

Michael Howard will be in the next Street Level video, not only talking about
his favourite tunes and first kiss stories, but also "throwing some shapes" on
the dance floor - maybe with Mr Sensitive, Peter Stringfellow.

I think I might change my allegiance to UKIP. That is short for, "We talk while
you kip". Suits me fine.

Believe it or not, I'm supposed to vote tomorrow in the Australian Federal
Election.

You see, in Australia it's not a choice whether you vote or not. It's the law
that you have to. So I will be travelling to Australia House in London to vote
for my man or woman to run Aussieland.

The strange thing is that Mr Howard is the choice of the people at the moment.

But it's a different Howard.

It's not Michael Howard, it's the Aussie Prime Minister John Howard, but they
have similar political ideas.

It will be interesting to see what happens in Australia as this is the first
election since Howard took Australian troops into Iraq to support the USA and UK
troops. It could be a taste of things to come for Tony Blair and George W Bush.
Watch this space for the results.

See you next week. Me and Harriet are going on Ready, Steady, Cook with Ainsley,
and a vodka company from New Zealand is setting up a vodka university course in
London.

Now that's the kind of education I wish I'd had.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              138 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 08, 2004, Friday

'I'll give you a government you can trust' The Tory leader seeks to distance
himself from his hardline image and woos all voters with promises of honesty and
accountability, reports George Jones

BYLINE: BY GEORGE JONES

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 08

LENGTH: 885 words

MICHAEL Howard yesterday closed the most united and confident Conservative
conference since the party lost power in 1997 with the words: "We are on our
way."

With a general election expected next spring, he sought to broaden his party's
appeal to disillusioned voters: "To those who voted Labour last time, who dream
of a better life, who work hard, but feel let down, I say, come and join us. We
are the only choice if you want a government that gives you value for money for
the taxes you pay.

"To those who voted Liberal Democrat last time, who have lost faith in a
criminal justice system with twisted priorities, who yearn for a time when
children can walk home safely from school, I say, come and join us."

A jacketless Mr Howard attempted to capitalise on Mr Blair's difficulties over
Iraq and Labour's failure to fulfil its promises on reforming public services by
identifying trust as a major issue at the election.

His closing address was shorn of party political attacks as he sought to
distance himself from his previous hardline image. He promised that, if elected,
he would lead a government that would be accountable and trustworthy.

He said the electorate did not expect miracles but did want "a government which
is generous in spirit and competent in action. A government which is honest. A
government they can trust."

Earlier, Mr Howard had said that an election victory was there for the taking.
Before setting off on a battlebus to deliver leaflets setting out the main
policy pledges to the first of 11 million homes, he told party activists: "Let's
get going".

Tory representatives had assembled at Bournemouth smarting from the humiliation
of being pushed into fourth place behind the UK Independence Party in the
Hartlepool by-election. They left yesterday in surprisingly buoyant mood. Last
year, the conference was overshadowed by the plotting to remove Iain Duncan
Smith, who was ousted within weeks of delegates leaving Blackpool. Mr Howard
demonstrated that he had imposed a self-discipline on the party that prevented
what had become all-too-familar displays of disunity, enabling the party to
concentrate on putting across its message.

There were more young people than usual at the conference, with many
representatives exuding a sense of self-confidence despite a series of opinion
polls that have shown the Tories still failing to make headway with the voters.

After years of trying to distance themselves from Margaret Thatcher, the party
leadership has once again begun to take pride in her legacy. The party appeared
more comfortable in its traditional policy clothes - law and order, Europe,
immigration and lower taxes.

Although Hartlepool was the worst possible backdrop for the conference, Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the public face of UKIP, over-reached himself by claiming the party
was on course to "kill" the Tories. The disclosure by The Daily Telegraph on the
morning of Mr Howard's main speech that UKIP's main financial backer, Paul
Sykes, a Yorkshire multi-millionaire, would no longer fund the anti-Brussels
Party lifted Tory spirits.

It underscored Mr Howard's central message that only the Tories could form a
government that would bring powers back from Brussels - and voting UKIP would
keep in power a Labour Government committed to further European integration. Mr
Howard broke with tradition, making his keynote speech on Tuesday, the second
day, rather than at the end. It was a one-shot performance: his first conference
speech as leader - and the last before a general election widely expected on May
5 next year.

Mr Howard hardened Tory policies on Europe and immigration but spoke in a
measured way, even moving some delegates to tears by describing his own
background as the son of refugees who escaped the Nazi Holocaust.

He left Bournemouth yesterday as the most credible and substantial of the three
party leaders that the Tories have elected since John Major was defeated seven
and a half years ago.

Under the guidance of Lord Saatchi - who helped Lady Thatcher to victory in 1979
- the party has begun to articulate a clear policy message. After focus groups
showed that the public no longer trusted grandiose promises from politicians, he
came up with a "timetable for action".

If Mr Howard wins the next election, on day one of his premiership he will
rescind Tony Blair's order allowing political advisers such as Alastair
Campbell, his former communications chief, being able to give orders to civil
servants.

Trust and accountability have been the watchwords of the conference. Tory
strategists believe that the public will have more confidence in election
promises if they are backed up with dates for implementation - without any
"wiggle room".

As a result more than 27 commitments, ranging from giving head teachers the
power to expel disruptive pupils to cleaner hospitals and setting a date for a
referendum on the European constitution, will be implemented within the first
month of a Tory government. It will be backed up by a promise that Conservative
Cabinet ministers will be sacked if they don't deliver.

All the representatives were sent home with a pledge card - similar to the one
Mr Blair used in 1997. It promises more police, cleaner hospitals, lower taxes,
school discipline and controlled immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              139 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 08, 2004, Friday

Saatchi strategy starts with positive thinking Advertising guru is behind new
approach to policy development. Toby Helm reports

BYLINE: By TOBY HELM

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 09

LENGTH: 550 words

WHEN Michael Howard promised this week to sack any shadow cabinet member who
fails to deliver, the last person he was thinking of, say colleagues, was
Maurice Saatchi.

The man whose advertising campaigns helped propel Margaret Thatcher to power in
1979 is not only running the party's increasingly slick presentation. He is also
dictating much of the political strategy. "Saatchi is the one Michael really
listens to. That will be the case more and more from now on," said a shadow
cabinet minister.

The new Saatchi approach is to convey a total conviction that the Tories will
win the next election: not could, should, or are on course to - but will. This
week he said he could not see how they could fail if Tony Blair remained in
Downing Street.

It is all part of a very deliberate tactical operation. Senior Tories are being
told to go out and brief the press that private polls in 165 Tory target seats
show they will definitely secure 103 of them.

If that is the case now, how many more would be won if the economy slumped and
the Blair-Brown rift worsened, they ask?

Having come to Bournemouth after a disastrous fourth place in the Hartlepool
by-election (behind UKIP), the Tories are suddenly talking about a hung
parliament at worst.

The aim of all this is not just to make everyone feel upbeat in the run up to
the election. It is also to win back UKIP voters who have either deserted
already or are threatening to do so.

The leadership's worry is that if hard-line euro-sceptics think the
Conservatives cannot win, they will vote UKIP. But if they are convinced they
can pull it off they will return. The Saatchi approach contrasts with what has,
until now, been a more cautious and guarded line from Michael Howard about the
prospects for victory. It has plenty of critics.

Some high-ranking figures in the party are deeply sceptical about how definitive
the polling evidence from the key seats really is. They want to see the detailed
figures, which have not even been circulated to the shadow cabinet.

Lord Saatchi's hand is also behind a new approach to policy development that is
more heavily reliant than before on focus groups. Evidence from the groups shows
people simply do not believe parties that say they will cut taxes. In fact, they
don't believe what politicians say about anything.

So the new model Tories announce they intend to cut taxes but won't promise to
do so until they are sure the sums add up. It sounds more credible.

They have also produced a "timetable for action" which binds them to make
changes on day one, month one and year one of a Conservative government.

One shadow cabinet member explained the Saatchi logic. "People will still think
we are lying bastards but they can't see how we can get out of doing things if
we say 'that will happen on a particular day' ."

Again, this strategy does not convince everyone. There are a good few in the
shadow cabinet who think the party should have sent everyone home from
conference with a few definite promises on tax. They think that to start making
pledges six weeks before an election will look cynical.

Lord Saatchi wants to mix optimism about victory with caution on specific
policies. You don't promise anything that you are not sure you can deliver -
except the fact that you'll win.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              140 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 08, 2004, Friday

Sound of Music for 100 days, or death? You choose Notebook

BYLINE: By SAM LEITH

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 28

LENGTH: 627 words

'Go in. Stay in. Tune in." That is what the Government's prettily designed new
pamphlets tell us to do in the event of the end of the world, or a similar
misfortune. But what will be on the telly when we do tune in? A staggering scoop
in yesterday's Sun tells us.

In the event of a nuclear holocaust, according to a top-secret "doomsday
schedule" leaked to the paper, a network of underground BBC bunkers will
broadcast Hancock's Half Hour and The Sound of Music for 100 days, or until
there are no more survivors.

This is supposed to cheer everybody up. With the outside world glowing an
eye-hurting Technicolor, the next-door neighbours reduced to steam and
industrial diamonds, sulphurous rain melting our ice-lollies and disfiguring our
children, and baroque isotopes of elements yet undiscovered reorganising our
hairstyles, we will thrill to the innocent tale of how a singing nun took on the
Nazi death machine - and won!

The more reactionary among our readers will imagine this to be a plot by
proselytising bottomists at the BBC to make our final days a bit more gay. I
don't agree.

But we may never know. The BBC, contacted for comment, told the Sun, in clear
breach of Greg Dyke's "Cut The Crap" directive: "This is a security issue, so we
cannot comment."

"DOE, a deer, a female deer;/ Doe, a deer born with two heads!/ RAYs from toxic
isotopes:/ These will kill ME in my bed!"

Really, one tries to make light of it, but it is completely insane. This is the
way the world ends. This is the way the world ends. This is the way the world
ends. Not with a bang, but with a wimple.  *All the pretty girls love a soldier,
so presumably the brave warriors in the Conservative Party must have the female
vote sewn up. In the past few days, the Tories have declared "war" on street
crime, political correctness, red tape, tax-and-spend economics, and many other
mighty enemies. They seem quite heedless of the historical dangers of fighting
on more than one front. Have they thought about the consequences of, say, street
crime signing a non-aggression pact with red tape?

In turn, Robert Kilroy-Silk of UKIP has enjoined his footsoldiers to "kill" the
Conservative Party: a pronouncement that smacks of the North Korean despot Kim
Jong-Il's occasional bulletins on his imminent victory over global imperialism.
Confusingly, several of his UKIP colleagues have declared war on themselves,
while John Redwood, in a daring raid, has snuck behind them to cut off their
supply lines.

I would have thought members of the public would find the spectacle of all these
weird, slightly creepy men in suits pretending to be field marshals, and
launching impotent rhetorical attacks on abstract nouns, a little ridiculous.
But these are professional politicians, so we must assume they know what they
are about.  *Personally, I am at war with Pret a Manger paper napkins. Every
morning, I buy a coffee, and every morning, presumably in accordance with some
safety directive, the assistant tries to wrap the cardboard cup in a paper
napkin.

It requires a very hard stare to make her let go of the cup and remove the
napkin. It's a bit less hot on your fingers if the cup's wrapped, but both
napkin and cup are slippery, so you stand a high chance of dropping both and
showering your ankles with boiling coffee. I arrive in the office victorious,
open my pot of yogurt, and realise I forgot to ask for a spoon.  *At the Q
awards, Sir Elton John blasted Madonna. "Best f------ live act?" he blasted.
"F--- off. Since when has lip-synching been live? Sorry, but I think anyone who
lip-synchs in public when their fans have paid pounds 75 to see them should be
shot." Come, come, Elton. Isn't lip-synching just the aural equivalent of
wearing a wig?

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              141 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 8, 2004

TORY PARTY CONFERENCE; HOWARD VOWS: I'LL QUIT IF I EVER LET YOU DOWN (ARE YOU
LISTENING MR BLAIR? )

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 459 words


MICHAEL Howard vowed yesterday to quit as Tory leader if he ever becomes a
liability to his party.

Mr Howard made the pledge as he issued a rallying cry to the party faithful
ahead of the next election.

On the last day of the Tory conference in Bournemouth, Mr Howard urged voters to
come over to the Conservatives.

Asked whether he would quit if he became a liability, the Tory leader insisted:
"Absolutely - no ifs or buts."

His comments contrast starkly with Tony Blair's recent announcement that,
despite his plunging ratings and anger over the war in Iraq, he will serve a
full third term if Labour wins the election.

Mr Howard side-stepped the question of whether he would step down if the Tories
lose. He said: "Everyone in this hall is focused on winning. No alternative
crosses our mind."

The British people wanted a government they could trust and which provided value
for money, he said.

"They just want a government that makes their lives that little bit easier, that
little bit better, month by month, year by year.

"A government which is generous in spirit and competent in action. A government
which is honest.

"We are the only choice if you want a government that is responsible and
accountable to you."

Mr Howard said it was time to "hand power back from politicians to people -
doctors, nurses, teachers, parents, families". The Tory leader added: "We're not
going to gloss over problems. We're not going to pretend we can cure every ill.

"We'll only promise what we can deliver. Only by being honest can we hope to win
people's trust."

Mr Howard again set out his 10word pledge to improve the lives of millions:
"School discipline. More police. Cleaner hospitals. Lower taxes. Controlled
immigration. Ten words plus one - accountability."

Earlier, in a question-and-answer session, he insisted the Tories had done the
hard work in drawing up policies to win the next election.

Asked why the party had not already got its message across, he admitted: "I
don't think that we have always used the time we've had in Opposition as well as
we should have done. Now we are doing that."

Although he did not mention the UK Independence Party, which last week beat the
Tories into fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election, Mr Howard made a general
appeal to supporters of all other parties to rally to the Conservative banner.

"To those who voted Labour last time, who dream of a better life, who work hard,
but feel let down, I say:

Come and join us, " he said.

"To those who voted Liberal Democrat last time, who have lost faith in a
criminal justice system with twisted priorities, who yearn for a time when
children can walk home safely from school, I say: Come and join us."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              142 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 8, 2004

LEADER; GIVE THIS NEW BREED OF TORIES A CHANCE

BYLINE: FREDERICK FORSYTH

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 410 words


I CANNOT for the life of me understand how the Conservatives got this reputation
of being unpleasant. Having spent a few years watching, going round the houses
and this week at Bournemouth, it is clear they are achingly eager to please and
laboriously courteous.

If you do not believe me ask the Metropolitan fuzz. They handle demos by
students, anarchists, socialists, anti-hunt screamers, poll tax rioters and the
rest. Their stunned reaction whenever the Tories demonstrate is: "They're so
damn polite."

When I say I do not know how it happened, I could be wrong. Eight y ears ago
Blair, Mandelson and Campbell (all three as nasty as they come) imported from
America a team of election-winners loaned by Bill Clinton. They taught New
Labour the US techniques - voter-logging, focus groups, poll domination, brand
imaging, media manipulation . . . the lot.

Heading the "must-do" advice list w as the collective character assassination of
opponents. That's what Mandy and the bagpipe psycho accomplished w hile the
hapless Tories stood around like a punch bag with a silly smile.

ON WEDNESDAY at Bournemouth, the only one talking tough was ex-SAS officer David
Davis. Apart from that, it was more drop-scone than hangman's noose. The polls
tell us that millions like their policies but not the Tories themselves. But how
can they know, given that those same voters probably make a point of not meeting
any?

Answer: they don't. They've just been told "the message" by a gullible media and
biased BBC.

The same polls tell us the bulk of the electorate is disenchanted with politics
after the Blair and Major y ears. But the Major years are gone.

Neil Hamilton does panto, Jeffrey A rcher, right, writes novels again, Jonathan
Aitken is in UKIP. The y ounger crowd is a new and likeable crew. The clean-cut
faces in the party today you wouldn't mind your daughter bringing home. When I
compare ex-Guard Adam Holloway, candidate for Gravesend with that fat slob
Prescott, his chops always screwed into a rictus of hate for Middle England,
there's just no comparison.

So Farmer Fred's prescriptions? To the Tories: stop apologising for the Major
years and start punching back at real sleaze - the stuff in power now. And to
Middle England? Have a good look at the Tory candidate challenging the Labour MP
in your area. I think you'll see a new generation, a different type and thus a
different party. Worth another chance next May.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              143 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 8, 2004

How the parties fared this conference season

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1382 words


Conservatives

Conference slogan: 'Timetable for action'

How many went: 2,000 passes issued

Debates went on for:16hr 50 min Monday to Thursday

The leaders soundbite: Michael Howard 'It's time to bring powers back to
Britain. There's a word for it: accountability. That's what people want. But
only a Conservative government can deliver it'

The controversy: Europe The UK Independence party set the cat among the Tory
pigeons by pushing the party into fourth place in the Hartlepool byelection

10 promises: Howard offered his conference 10 words - but only five ideas - for
a Conservative government. They ranged from 'school discipline' to 'controlled
immigration'

On crime: In an uncompromising speech the shadow home secretary, David Davis,
pledged 20,000 extra prison places, random drug testing in schools and a 10-fold
rise in rehab treatment places to 20,000. He also offered no form-filling for
'stop and search', 5,000 extra police officers a year and to scrap the prison
early release scheme

On health: The party said it would abolish Whitehall-set hospital targets and
'give control back to the professionals' on day one of government. It would give
patients the 'right to choose' private, NHS-funded hospital care, as well as
increased information to judge medical performance

On education: A Conservative government would axe two-thirds of the civil
servants at the Department for Education and Skills, legislate to give legal
immunity to schools, and scrap top-up fees within days of taking power, Tim
Collins, the shadow education secretary, promised

On immigration: The party promised to cut immigration with an annual quota limit
on migrants and refugees set by parliament. It also said a Conservative
government would enforce overseas processing of all asylum claims and
embarkation controls

On tax and spending: The Tories offered five pledges include 'lower taxes' but
at the first general election in decades the Tories will not commit themselves
to cutting tax. Howard talked in terms of reducing taxation if the Conservatives
'can' to avoid breaking promises. A war on government waste and bureaucracy,
including a civil service recruitment freeze and job cuts, would fund higher
spending in other areas

On Europe: Eager to win back Eurosceptic voters turning to Ukip, the Tories say
they will announce a date for a referendum on the constitution on their first
day in power, and will vigorously campaign against it. Holding back from calling
for a complete withdrawal from Europe, Howard pledged to repatriate some powers
from the EU

Iraq and foreign affairs: Howard maintained his support for military action was
justified because the world was a better place with Saddam Hussein in jail, but
he attacked the prime minister's honesty, telling delegates: 'Tony Blair did not
tell the truth. He did not give a truthful account of the intelligence he
received'

Liberal Democrats

Conference slogan: 'Freedom Fairness Trust'

How many went: 5,030 passes issued

Debates wnet on for: 32 hours in the hall Sunday to Thursday

The leaders soundbite: Charles Kennedy 'Three-party politics is here to stay. We
are moving from a party of protest to a party of power'

The controversy: The Orange Book The collection of radical liberal essays from
some of the party's most ambitious MPs upset many delegates, who saw it as
Toryism in disguise

10 promises: In the Lib Dem pre-manifesto Kennedy offered voters 10 promises
from 'no tuition fees, no top-up fees' to 'take the environment seriously'

On crime: The party offered 'tough Liberalism' including 10,000 more frontline
police and 20,000 more community support officers. It promised community justice
courts to hear antisocial and low-level crime cases

On health: The party said it would replace national insurance with a national
health contribution to provide ringfenced funds for the NHS. It would scrap
Whitehall targets for hospital performance and step up preventative policies to
improve the nation's health

On education: Delegates voted against the mention of city academies and
specialist schools in the party's education policy. But they backed plans to
simplify school admission procedures and cut class sizes in infant and primary
schools

On immigration: The party claimed to be ready to lose votes rather than trade on
asylum policy as a 'cheap way' to boost poll ratings. It promised a green card
scheme for migrant workers based on annual assessment of the economy's needs,
and an independent agency to take over the asylum system from Home Office

On tax and spending: A new 50p marginal tax rate on earnings above £100,000 to
raise £5bn would raise the lion's share of the funds required to abolish
university tuition fees and introduce free personal care for elderly and
disabled Britons. The Lib Dem Treasury spokesman, Vincent Cable, promised to
follow pro-business policies, including restricting the red tape imposed on
companies

On Europe: Kennedy stressed the party's 'reforming pro-European principles'

Iraq and foreign affairs: Buoyed by his party having been the only one to have
opposed the war, Kennedy said voters should use the election as a referendum on
the conflict. He also said Blair should appear in the Commons to explain exactly
when he gave his support to George Bush for the policy of regime change. But
activists voted down a call for the prime minister to resign

Labour

Conference slogan: 'A better life for all'

How many wnet: 18,000 passes issued

Debates went on for: 24 hours Sunday to Thursday

The leaders soundbite: Tony Blair 'I can apologise for the information that
turned out to be wrong, but I can't, sincerely at least, apologise for removing
Saddam. The world is a better place with Saddam in prison, not in power'

The controversy: The TB-GBs The Blair-Brown split, or lack of it, dominated the
first part of the week and temporarily drove Alan Milburn into hiding

10 promises: In his speech Blair offered voters '10 things a future Labour third
term can do for Britain's hard-working families'. His list concentrated on
security and opportunity

On crime: David Blunkett promised to accelerate the recruitment of 25,000
community support officers from this autumn. He set out a radical extension of
powers to carry out compulsory drug testing on arrest, and plans for weekend
prisons, 1,300 more prison places and 1,800 new probation staff

On health: John Reid insisted that billions of extra cash and staff are
delivering a faster, more efficient NHS as waiting lists tumble. Couch potato
voters had to embrace a healthier lifestyle, he said. Labour also emphasised
that it backs expanded patient choice - but it is hesitating over a ban on
smoking in public places

On education: Charles Clarke promised to reduce selection in secondary schools
in England but said grammar schools would remain safe in Labour's hands. He
pleased the conference by responding to an anxiety felt strongly by members
about the 11-plus test, which he called 'wrong'

On immigration: The first phase of an 'electronic border' around Britain will be
in place by end of year, Blunkett promised. He also confirmed that legislation
introducing identity cards will be announced this winter

On tax and spending: Gordon Brown promised to aim for full employment in every
region and to halve child poverty by 2010, while keeping mortgage rates as low
as possible. The party made much of its record of economic stability and the
longest period of growth for 200 years

On Europe: Committed to holding - and winning - a referendum on the EU
constitution, Blair demonstrated his pro-European credentials by saying that
Britain must remain 'at the centre of Europe . . . the biggest economic market
and most powerful political union in the world'. To withdraw from this 'would be
utter self-defeating folly'

Iraq and foreign affairs: Blair held back from saying sorry over Iraq.
Indicating troops would remain in the country for some time, he said they would
'stay the course'. The 'big four' unions combined with activists to crush an
embarrassing call for immediate withdrawal during the Iraq debate. Blair added
that Middle East peace process would be a 'personal priority'


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: HOWARD TELLS VOTERS HE WILL REBUILD TRUST

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR Michael Howard told delegates
yesterday he would quit, no ifs, no buts', if he became a liability to the party
Tom Pilston

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 951 words


MICHAEL HOWARD yesterday appealed to Labour and Liberal Democrat voters
disillusioned by Tony Blair's two terms in office to return to the Tory fold
with a promise that he would rebuild trust with the British electorate. In an
upbeat ending to the Conservatives' annual conference in Bournemouth, the Tory
leader said ordinary voters now wanted "a government which is honest - a
government they can trust".

Claiming that the election was "there to be won", Mr Howard told his conference:
"We're ready. We're going to be straight with people. Sometimes we'll be
attacked for doing that. The truth is not always comfortable. Only by being
honest can we hope to win people's trust."

He reached out beyond the message to core Tory voters which he delivered in his
keynote address on Tuesday, saying: "To those who voted Labour last time, who
dream of a better life, who work hard but feel let down, I say come and join us.

"To those who voted Liberal Democrat last time, who have lost faith in a
criminal justice system with twisted priorities, who yearn for a time when
children can walk home safely from school, I say come and join us.

"And to those who have given up on politics, who do not believe that casting a
vote will ever make any difference to their lives, I say come and join us."

In interviews before the closing ceremony, Mr Howard said the Tories were
leaving their conference "in good heart", but he admitted that when they
arrived, the mood in the party was "not brilliant" after the Tories were beaten
into fourth place by UKIP last week in the Hartlepool by-election.

Tory supporters made it clear they wanted a more Eurosceptic message from Mr
Howard when they packed a UKIP fringe meeting on Wednesday.

Mr Howard will face growing pressure within his party to answer UKIP by
committing the Conservatives to pull Britain out of the EU if they fail to
renegotiate the treaties on the social chapter and fisheries, from which they
have promised to withdraw.

Mr Howard also warned supporters of UKIP that a vote for anyone but the Tories
would make it more likely that Britain would sign up to the European
constitution and join the euro.

Asked in a question-and-answer session at the conference with Michael Brunson,
the former ITN political editor, whether he would quit as leader if he became a
liability to his party, Mr Howard said: "Absolutely - no ifs, no buts ..."

When Mr Brunson demanded: "Is losing the next election a liability?" the
Opposition leader answered: "Everyone in this hall is focused on winning the
next election. No alternative to that crosses our minds."

Asked if he was the "party's problem", Mr Howard respond-ed to loud applause: "I
don't think I see it like that and I don't think most people in this hall would
see it like that." He refused to mention Mr Blair by name in his conference
speech, adhering to the strategy adopted for the conference to present positive
messages about policy rather than a negative image attacking the Government.

The Conservative leader made trust a defining issue for the general election,
but refused to repeat the attack he made last week on Mr Blair's integrity over
the Iraq war, in spite of the Iraq Survey Group report confirming Saddam Hussein
had no weapons of mass destruction.

Mr Howard said: "I still think that going to war was the right thing to do.
Although I have my differences with the Prime Minister - I think there should
have been a plan before we went to war and I don't think he has told the truth
about the intelligence he received - I still think it was the right thing to
do."

He left some of his own Shadow Cabinet ministers frustrated at his refusal to
allow more explicit tax cuts to be offered this week to Middle England voters.

"We can only promise what we can deliver," he told his conference. "It would be
the easiest thing in the world for us to say we will promise you tax cuts'. But
unless we can show exactly where the money is coming from, how we are going to
finance our pubic services and offer tax cuts, nobody would believe us."

Mr Howard said that the party had specified "very clearly" what it would do and
when. He continued: "It will make a big difference to have a government that is
really, truly accountable to the people of our country. A government which has
spelt out in such stark simplicity what it intends to do that everybody will be
able to see whether we are keeping to our policies."

Policies on education, health, crime and tax would make a "huge difference", as
would moves to bring powers back from Brussels, he said. Making sure that more
of the decisions that affected the lives of British people were made in Britain
would be in the interests of the British people, he said.

Mr Howard said that Tory supporters would leave Bourne-mouth armed with a
"timetable for action" on Conservative policies.

Mr Brunson asked whether it was true that Tim Collins, the shadow Education
Secretary, had pledged to cut two-thirds of backroom education staff immediately
on taking office.

"I haven't looked at what the plans in detail are for the Department of
Education and Skills, so I don't know how long it'll take Tim to do that."

Mr Collins later renewed his commitment to cut backroom education staff. "On the
first day, I will call in the Permanent Secretary, I will tell him that is what
he has to do," he said.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's The World at One, Mr Collins added: "There is a
difference between issuing an instruction in one day and expecting the
instruction to be fully implemented in one day."

Mr Collins said on the very first day of a Tory government "things will be
different".

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              145 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: ANALYSIS: TORIES BEGIN TO EMERGE FROM THEIR
SLUMBERS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 757 words


THE CONSERVATIVES left Bournemouth yesterday in much better heart than when they
arrived. Their disastrous Hartlepool by-election result faded quickly in the
safe cocoon of the conference centre. The UK Independence Party, which strikes
fear in the hearts of Tory activists, is fraying at the edges. The Tories are
happier in their own skin, no longer embarrassed by their own leader.

Slowly but surely, Michael Howard is developing a new, softer style.
Surprisingly, he avoided attacking Tony Blair. The message from the focus groups
is that voters have had enough Punch and Judy politics. They want more Richard
and Judy.

Mr Howard's more measured tone does not come naturally. He is a lawyer who likes
mastering a brief and being an attack dog. But his new style worked in his two
conference speeches. He made a decent fist of trying to re-engage with the
voters by winning their trust. In a week when Mr Blair's "trust problem" was
again highlighted by the Iraq Survey Group's final report, the strategy looked
clever.

But there is a problem. Is Mr Howard really the right front man for a new
politics? He can't help it, but he is a symbol of the old politics. He says the
voters want "action not words". The danger is people will discount his message
as mere words from another old-school politician.

As one Tory adviser told me: "We need to become New Tories and we need someone
like Blair in 1994. Michael Howard is making the right noises but he's not the
ideal person to make them."

Mr Howard played the traditional right-wing cards on immigration, Europe, tax,
and crime. But he did not pander to his audience in the way that Iain Duncan
Smith did last year to cling to his job for a few more days. Mr Howard looked
like a statesman rather than a rabble-rouser. He rejected strong last-minute
pressure from senior colleagues, including the party's influential co-chairman
Lord Saatchi, to make a hard pledge of tax cuts. It was a pity Mr Howard's new
style was not replicated by Liam Fox, the other co-chairman, and David Davis,
the shadow Home Secretary, who played to the Tory gallery. It is no accident
that they are potential rivals for the leadership. "There were too many
freelance operations," one Tory frontbencher said. "We need to bottle Michael's
tone and make sure it is delivered by everyone. Otherwise it looks as though
we're just chasing the core vote, which we are not."

Mr Howard's approach is managerial rather than radical. "Accountability" is not
a vote-winning slogan. His five pledges: "More police, cleaner hospitals, lower
taxes, school discipline, controlled immigration" may be inoffensive and
deliberately modest, but may not set the voters' pulses racing. As he admitted
yesterday, people have little idea of his party's policies. Some Tory
modernisers believe the party needs a "Clause 4 moment" or a "10,000-volt shock"
policy to grab the voters' attention. When you ask them what it is, they scratch
their heads. But I suspect they are right: Mr Howard needs a powerful,
undeniable symbol that his party has changed.

The "mods" think Mr Howard has cooled on the "inclusive" approach he set out
when he pitched for the leadership last October in what many regard as his best
speech. He said: "At our best, we are a party broad and generous - broad in
appeal and generous in outlook - a party capable of representing all Britain and
all Britons. I will lead this party from its centre. I will call on the talents
of all in the party and the party will expect all to answer that call."

It now looks as if he is leading his party from the centre-right, and, after
bringing back John Redwood and dropping the modernisers John Bercow and Damian
Green in last month's reshuffle, he is hardly using "all the talents".

Howard aides say he has "ticked the box" and proved his socially liberal
credentials by backing legislation on "gay marriages". But I doubt the voters
realise that. The Tory leader does not want to pick a Blair-style fight with his
party. But if he did, at least the voters might sit up and take notice.

Mr Blair has often warned his party that the Tories are "not dead, just
sleeping". He is right. Britain is a conservative country with a conservative-
sounding Prime Minister who has marginalised the official Conservative Party.

The Tories are starting to emerge from their slumbers. But many voters have
written them out of the script and, with just seven months to go until a general
election, will people notice the reawakening in time?

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              146 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: CONFERENCE HIGHLIGHTS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 517 words


Gaffe of the week

Michael Howard makes great play of his love of Liverpool FC, and twice stood for
Parliament in the city in the 1970s before winning his constituency in Kent. So
he might have shown more sensitivity when he seemed to write off the party's
election chances on Merseyside. He told regional journalists: "I would love to
win seats in Liverpool and other big cities in the North, but we can win the
general election without doing that." His comments delighted the Liberal
Democrats, who are emerging as the main challengers to Labour in the urban
North. They would also have made uncomfortable reading for Tory standard-bearers
in Newcastle, Manchester, Sheffield, Bradford and Leeds, who are apparently
regarded as cannon fodder by the Tory high command.

Spookiest coincidence

As pictures of Nicholas "Two Puddings" Soames, the portly shadow Defence
Secretary, addressing the conference were relayed around the Bournemouth centre,
a caption appeared advertising a fringe meeting later in the day. It was
entitled, "Defusing the obesity time-bomb".

Rowdiest party

That was the BBC bash that celebrates the end of three gruelling weeks of
conference coverage for staff. This year Andrew Marr, John Pienaar and the
Beeb's legendary fixer Paul "Gobby" Lambert and Jon "Duracell" Devitt of the
World Service crowded into the Voodoo Lounge to boogie to the likes of Abba and
the Darkness. No politicians were seen. A staffer says: "They are not invited;
we want to have fun."

Digging deep

The Tories are embracing the latest technology to swell the coffers. Activists
can receive political news by text message at pounds 1.50 a time. Why they might
want to pay to learn about the latest by-election disaster or poll setback is a
mystery.

Biggest let-down

Oliver Letwin, the shadow Chancellor, was widely expected to announce ambitious
tax-cutting plans. They waited and they waited. One disappointed MP said
afterwards: "It was like

coitus interruptus."

Howard at home

Michael Howard treated the party faithful to a glimpse of his domestic routine;
every New Year's Eve he and Sandra settle down with a video of Brideshead
Revisited, based on Evelyn Waugh's tale of aristocratic decline. Perhaps the
Tory leader might want to investigate other Waugh classics, including Decline
and Fall and Vile Bodies.

Spectre at the feast

The UK Independence Party, who provided a grim start to the conference by
pushing the Tories into a humiliating fourth place in the Hartlepool
by-election. That didn't stop more than 200 undercover Tories, their conference
passes hidden away, from packing a UKIP fringe on Wednesday.

Beam me up

Tim Yeo told the conference his dream holiday would be

a free trip to the moon. Surely that would be the preferred destination of John
"Vulcan" Redwood.

Quote of the week

"Today, the sun has come out in Bournemouth and we're on our way": Michael
Howard, reflecting dogged confidence.

Best joke

Asked who his political hero was, David Davis said: "Wellington, because I like
his policies on Europe."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              147 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 8, 2004

'HELP ME DITCH BLAIR'

BYLINE: David Wooding

SECTION: TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH

LENGTH: 174 words


FED-UP Labour voters were urged yesterday to help spring the Tories into power.

Michael Howard appealed to people of all parties and those who have given up on
politics to "come and join us".

In his closing conference address, the Tory leader vowed to tackle concerns over
immigration, crime, tax, schools and hospitals.

His plea was aimed beyond the party faithful to those who are disillusioned with
Tony Blair or have defected to the Lib-Dems or the UK Independence Party. Mr
Howard said the Tories were the only way to remove Mr Blair.

He told the Bournemouth rally a Tory government would bring honesty and trust
back to British politics.

And it would give power back to the people - doctors, nurses, teachers, parents
and family. He said: "We're ready. We are ready to help our country. We're not
going to gloss over problems. We're not going to pretend we can cure every ill.

"We'll only promise what we can deliver. We're going to be straight with people.

"We must stand our ground and stick to our guns."


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              148 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

UKIP's relations with other parties

SECTION: Features; 14

LENGTH: 55 words


From Mr Stephen Hampson

Sir, A leadership crisis and loss of funding all in one day.

Clearly the UKIP can now be treated as part of the party political establishment
of Great Britain.

Yours faithfully, STEPHEN HAMPSON, 80 Main Street, Queniborough, Leicestershire
LE7 3DA.

October 6.

Debate, page 72


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

Election war chest is brimming with 'virtual donations'

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin and Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 24

LENGTH: 635 words


* The For Sale signs are still up on the old party HQ

Wealthy benefactors have promised £18 million to keep the Tories out of the red,
Tom Baldwin and Andrew Pierce write

Tory benefactors are promising seven-figure donations towards Michael Howard's
target of filling a £20 million war chest for the coming general election
campaign.

Treasurers said last night that they were on course to raise the funds, despite
encountering fresh financial difficulties earlier this summer, when the party
ran up a £2 million overdraft. Jonathan Marland, the chief executive of
Conservative Treasurers, told The Times that he had received "virtual pledges"
on about £18 million of the money needed for the election. "I am totally
confident we will raise it," he said. "We are finding a lot of donors are coming
back to the party and supporting us. The early indications are that the target
will be realistically achievable."

The new money is unlikely to include any donation from Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire
property developer, who withdrew his backing from the UK Independence Party this
week and promised to support the Conservatives. Officials remain wary of the
maverick self-made millionaire, who favours withdrawal from Europe, and say that
they will not be asking him for help.

There were unconfirmed rumours that significant pledges had, instead, been
obtained from Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon; Dame Vivien Duffield,
the Clore family heiress; Galen Weston, the owner of Selfridges; and George
Magan, a City financier and a former party treasurer.

The party has already used £2.5 million preparing for the election, including
recent spending of up to £45,000 a month on opinion research and polling. But
there has been some unease within the party over expenditure on advertising
because most of this goes to Michael Moszynski's Immediate Sales Company, a
wholly owned offshoot from M&C Saatchi. Aides have dismissed suggestions that
Lord Saatchi, the party's co-chairman, has a conflict of interest. "Maurice
(Saatchi) is rich enough not to worry about getting money off us," said one.

Another area of controversy is over the unspecified proportion of funding coming
from soft loans, some of which will be converted to donations only after the
general election. There have been rumours that this is a means of bypassing laws
requiring political parties to name their big benefactors.

Officials are reluctant to discuss the issue, but Mr Marland said: "Like any
other business, we will not borrow beyond what the balance sheet permits."

There are currently about 50 big donors lined up for the election fund. But none
is expected to give much more than £2 million. The last election campaign in
2001 was largely paid for by two donations of £5 million from Mr Wheeler and the
late John Paul Getty II.

Mr Marland acknowledges that the party needs to widen its income base. He has
introduced a cap of £50,000 on donations used to pay for the annual running
costs of Conservative Central Office, which have been pared down in recent
months from £13.5 million to £11 million, causing staff shortages in some
operations.

The Tories spent about £1.5 million this summer, however, fitting out new
offices in Victoria Street, Westminster, on which they have taken out a three
year lease costing just under £1 million.

At the same time, the party has still not sold its old Smith Square
headquarters.

Mr Howard had previously said that the proceeds from this sale would be used as
capital for a Conservative foundation endowment fund.

Officials admitted that the foundation had not been set up but said that there
had been "substantial offers" on the building. The delay in the sale is, they
say, because other options were now being examined.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

Is the party over?

SECTION: Features; 72

LENGTH: 799 words


A LEADER and policies for a kick-off. Michael Howard is yet another bland
careerist; a Blair type, who bends with the breeze. And he has blown a golden
opportunity presented to him by the UK Independence Party. If nothing else, this
eruption has shown the breadth of support for getting a grip on the EU and the
proposed constitution in particular. Just about every poll shows a clear
majority for either getting out or a stringent adjustment of our financial
contribution, not to mention a reappraisal of the myriad laws that have
undermined our national heritage.

A return to the philosophical core of politics is called for. That is, to give
the people what they want -and backed by Paul Sykes's money! Such a radical and
revolutionary concept is anathema, but until the Tories display the bottle to
consider this, they will remain in the wilderness.

The sooner they realise that the responsibility of our elected leaders is to
look after our own interests, rather than some vague concept of universal
harmony, the sooner they will return to power.

David Taylor, Leeds

Past mistakes

AN ADMISSION that the Thatcher years were a catastrophic failure might make me
vote Tory.

Sarah Stanford, Datchet, Berkshire

Eyes to the left

I ALWAYS voted Conservative until Margaret Thatcher started taking the party to
the right.

The further right it goes, the less likely it is to regain power. And I believe
that its stance on Europe is betraying the next generation, whose future is
undoubtedly in Europe.

Geoff Nield, geoff gnield.co.uk

We need immigrants

I WOULD vote Tory if Michael Howard scrapped his ridiculous pledges on refugees
and immigration, which pander only to UKIP and BNP voters, who alone cannot win
him an election. This country needs immigrants to avert a pensions meltdown
later this century, all the more probable if Howard restores the link to
earnings. Yet he wants to cut tax as well. Who's going to pay for all of it?
Paul Sykes? This is just more pointless and backward-looking rhetoric which
seeks to shore up the bigot vote.

Joe Buchdahl, Buxton

Strong language

IN A word, Europe. The UKIP line to leave the EU is the one to take. But in
reality this might result in our negotiating ourselves into an acceptable
compromise. Without threatening to leave, we will not achieve a good position.
As history shows, we will be outnegotiated. We need to follow the French -just
keep on saying NO!

Roy and Ann Procter, procter dial.pipex.com

Love thy neighbour

I WOULD vote Tory once again if the party dropped its ill-informed, arrogant and
destructive hate campaign against most things European. This is the core reason
why the party is making no progress.

P. Seilern, London W1 Traditional values I EMIGRATED to this country from India
in 1965 at the age of 3. David Davis's remarks regarding immigration reflect the
views that some of my peers and I hold.

It is not racism to want to protect values that you feel are important and need
protecting.

We are in danger of being swamped and something needs to be done.

Syd Dosanjh, Hounslow, Middlesex

Unfair taxes

A PROMISE that, unlike Labour, the Tories would not financially penalise people
without children, and would reverse the unfair Labour vote-catching trend of
taxing that minority group of people ever more heavily to provide handouts such
as the children's tax credit and the Child Trust Fund.

Labour mentions families and children frequently, but it seems to have forgotten
the rest of us. Tories, can you help us?

Mike Rose, Soham, Cambridgeshire

Admit it

I WOULD consider voting for the Conservatives if they accepted, as John Kerry
has in the US, that the war in Iraq was a mistake. It seems that only George W.
Bush, Tony Blair, and for some strange reason, Michael Howard still believe that
the war was justified.

Dave Winkworth, David_Winkworth fwuk.fwc.com

Going it alone

A POLICY of amicable divorce from the EU and the renegotiation of a free-trade
area; which is what the British people agreed to in the first place!

Val Cowell, Poulton-le-Fylde, Lancashire

Decentralise

I WOULD consider voting for the Tories if they would commit to root-and-branch
decentralisation of UK governance. The logic of their position in Brussels
applies in spades to Whitehall.

John N. Turnbull, Bourne End, Buckinghamshire

Integrity is everything

I WOULD vote for them if they were to remain honest and truthful. Michael
Howard, and especially Tony Blair, should remember the adage: if you have
integrity, nothing else matters; if you don't have integrity, nothing else
matters.

D. Mason, Preston

Gentle persuasion

WHAT would make me vote Tory? Thumbscrews.

Alan Carpenter, Chippyawc aol.com


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 7, 2004

Now all eyes are on the duelling duo

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED_SC2_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1216 words


THERE is presently a vast void in the British body politic the entire absence of
an effective Opposition.

For almost a decade there has been a Labour government with an enormous majority
and no serious prospect of losing a general election.

And, far from contending seriously as an alternative government, the
Conservative Party has been toiling for its very survival unable to land a
serious blow on the Blair administration, unable to occupy distinctive and
popular political territory and hopelessly divided on the question of Europe.

The continued weakness of the Conservative Party is bad news for those who
admire traditional British virtues.

At their best, it is the only party which contends for minimal government, the
lightest taxation, and a certain kind of urbane tolerance for those who think
differently, dream differently or even play differently from the fashionable
liberal-left consensus.

Above all, the Tories are the antipolitics politicians. They have a realistic,
even rueful awareness of the limits of power. They grasp just how intractable
certain questions are and just how mightily assorted problems defy solution by
the state.

Still guided, at bottom, by a keen sense of original sin, Conservatives know
that assorted well-meant bids to build Utopia could devise only a future more
Orwellian than delightful. As long as they are out of the game, we are doomed to
the politics only of meddlesome managerialism, pandering largely to Big State
client groups and producer-led public services: always na've and occasionally
vindictive.

But the absence of a credible Opposition of any sort makes for extremely bad
administration. Without scrutiny, without challenge, without the abiding
possibility of imminent electoral eviction, an entrenched and complacent regime
can haul Britain into serious trouble very quickly.

ADECADE of National Government, in the 1930s, led directly to the appeasement of
Nazi Germany and, by the decade's end, appalling world war.

The few who realistically grasped the German threat were unable to wield the
least influence on affairs.

Tory woes are certainly critical but they are not yet catastrophic. If Michael
Howard has not quite fulfilled his first promise, nearly a year ago, of glad
confident morning again, he has already proved a much better leader than his
Howard projects authority in Parliament and on TV. His speech in Bournemouth, on
Tuesday, was a model of understated style and common sense.

It is worth remembering that the Conservatives won the last two elections they
fought local and European and, for all their difficulties, they remain a
formidable opponent in a fight.

It may be unlikely they can win a general election next year, but it is by no
means impossible granted some helpful calamity for the Government.

And they have an excellent chance of making a major advance, entering a new
Parliament with more than 200 seats and bringing forward such rising stars as
David Cameron, the gifted MP for the Oxfordshire seat of Witney.

For the present, they must contend with an elderly membership, an organisation
which is in widespread and lamentable decay, and an overwhelmingly hostile
media.

Only one stable of newspapers, in 2001, lent the Tories unqualified support, and
it is hard to believe that BBC camerawork during Mr Howard's Tuesday speech
focusing exclusively, as it did, on the most grotesque and senescent members of
the audience was benign happenstance.

Much can happen in the next few months and, meanwhile, some 'alternative
opposition' scenarios which, at present, are being so enthusiastically talked up
by Michael Howard's enemies, might be buried.

For one, there is no prospect of Charles Kennedy and the Liberal Democrats
replacing the Tories as the main opposition party. For a start, they have too
many problems in common wildly uneven organisation through the country, an
activist base well to the extreme of the leadership, and a lack of significant
institutional support.

For another, the Liberals are neither practically nor psychologically a party of
government.

They are a 'third party' almost everyone's second choice; a weird coalition of
the Celtic, the nonconformist, the minutiae of municipal pavement-politics and
the crazes of assorted single-issue fanatics.

It has never been a vehicle for the ambitious and obsession, rather than
ability, accounts for the eminence of rather too many personalities.

The Liberal Democrats are increasingly a party of remarkable intolerance (
consider members' conference vote, a year ago, for explicit and compulsory sex
education for the smallest schoolchildren, irrespective of parental wishes) and
of notorious opportunism.

Such a party adds to the gaiety of nations. It will often be humoured even
encouraged by bored journalists. But as soon as it comes within a whiff of
serious power, a third party such as the Liberal Democrats will be subjected to
minute and ruthless scrutiny.

As Kennedy's crew is capable of, for instance, vaunting sustainable energy as
national policy while ferociously opposing windfarms in every other parish and
incapable of producing a budget that adds up it will crumple as readily as the
SNP in the 1970s or the SDP-Liberal Alliance in the 1980s.

IT is also hard to be patient with those who see the UK Independence Party as a
likely route to a new Jerusalem. The British are not going to fall in great
numbers for a snake- oil salesman like Robert Kilroy-Silk. Nor, under our
present electoral system, is coming third in a boondocks bylection much of an
advance on coming fourth.

The real political story in Britain is not as much the contentions of party as
the in-out, up- down manoeuvrings of Tony Blair and his brooding Chancellor. In
terms of the real possibility of transferred power, especially as the men hail,
at bottom, from different political planets, it's the only show in town.

It's rather early to tell if Tony Blair has succeeded with his audacious move
last Thursday, unveiling three political sensations at once even as his
Chancellor flew the Atlantic in incommunicado bliss.

Instinct tells us that it has probably failed. For one, the overweening
arrogance of any Prime Minister who, after seven years in office, looks forward
complacently to four years more, is unlikely to play well with Joe Public.

For another, all that sustains Mr Blair in government is that what Gordon Brown
loves to call This Great Labour Movement Of Ours presently tolerates rather than
adores him, in due expectation that the author of such happy Marxist piffle as
The Red Paper on Scotland will shortly succeed our Tone and make everything all
right.

If they sense the Prime Minister is out to diddle Mr Brown of his inheritance
and he almost certainly is the unions, the backbenchers, half the Cabinet and
assorted pinko minions can move with deadly speed to foreclose on his political
mortgage.

Meanwhile, can the Tories win the next election? No, nor are they likely to win
the one after that.

But they are too securely embedded to go under, and in a decade's time we should
see them charging home, harnessed at last to a force presently unexploited
exuberant and angry English nationalism.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              152 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 7, 2004

Comment & Analysis: The language of trust and emotions can backfire badly on
politicians I confess: I've had enough of all this personal politics:

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1145 words


Here are some snapshots from the past few weeks. Nicholas Soames goes pink when
asked about his first kiss and admits to buying a Dido CD. Menzies Campbell
stretches out his elegant legs and tells Andrew Rawnsley about how remote his
father was. Gordon Brown makes a wrenching reference to the deaths of his
daughter and mother. Michael Howard tells the Tories that he might have ended up
in a concentration camp, and talks about his family effectively enough to have
some in floods of tears.

What's the connection? These are all traditional male politicians grappling with
a new popular vocabulary that emphasises feeling, self-revelation and emotional
directness. The old words and phrases don't work. Who can find some new ones?

Over the past month, the word that has been bandied about most across the party
divide is "trust". People don't trust politicians, everyone agrees. In most
cases this is not very hidden code for "people don't trust Tony Blair because of
the Iraq war and Labour spinning". From the Liberal Democrats to the Tory right,
Ukip to the Brownites, everyone has pointed to that. But, in each case, they go
on to make a wider point. The Tories betrayed their voters on tax in the past.
Trust is an issue that goes far wider than one politician, however powerful, and
one decision, however momentous. This mistrust is cultural and deep-seated.

The shrinking of the ideo logical divide hasn't made policy any less important -
policies that work, or don't, in running public services and huge bureaucracies
affect the skills, health, wealth and morale of almost everyone in the country.
But the death, or mortal sickness, of ideology does mean that we no longer take
political leaders on trust because of where they stand on an abstract spectrum
of belief. Whatever party conference audiences do, most of the nation feels no
automatic loyalty to Blair and Howard, still less Kennedy, because they are
socialist, conservative or liberal. In public life, the badges and uniforms have
been stripped off.

Which leaves the egos bare. Now comes a second word that has complicated the
trust problem. It's "television". After half a century of its existence, the
full political effect of television is only now becoming clear. It is not
primarily to do with satire, or the way news bulletins treat politicians. It is
about the way we see each other, and them. Television is a full-face, close-up
communication system. It is fundamentally emotional and personal, the opposite
of abstract. It is also democratic in reducing everyone to the same size. Tony
may be prime minister, Tracy may be on Big Brother. But on the small screen,
they look just the same size.

To understand what a change this is, you have to think back to how party
conferences used to be, even a generation ago. The leader and those around
really were up there on the platform, looking down on the adoring masses. The
greatest speakers, such as Neil Kinnock or Margaret Thatcher, Michael Heseltine
and Barbara Castle, swooped and shouted, swayed and stabbed their fingers. They
spoke the old language of power - aggressive, full of ideological certainty,
mocking one minute, inspiring the next. These speeches worked brilliantly in the
hall. But even then, mostly, they were terrible on TV.

Now that kind of rhetoric is useless in politics. Television has made us a more
confessional lot. We are much less impressed by being shouted at. We have been
trained to look through the language at the people underneath. Do we trust them?
And, as important, do we like them?

What we have been seeing in Brighton and Bournemouth is the political world
scrabbling to accommodate this. Among the most popular fringe meetings have not
been those where ministers or shadow ministers speak from a platform, but where
someone known from media appearances (the Observer's Andrew Rawnsley) quizzes a
politician about his or her personal story. It's political Parkinson by the
seaside.

Then again, trying to engage the conference audi ence, the Tories put their
shadow team on sofas, with questions taken by a man with a roving microphone - a
technique copied from the Republicans, but clearly mimicking telly - a
combination of Question Time and daytime sofa-chat informality. Or take their
decision to interweave speeches with video interviews with the shadow cabinet -
my first kiss, my music, my favourite way to spend Sunday mornings. They were
stiff and generally embarrassing, but that's not the point: here were
politicians playing at being ordinary members of the public in the roving "vox
pop" we see all the time.

One more example: take the way Howard dealt with the trickiest part of his
speech, the final personal section about his immigrant family and what he owed
to Britain. He stopped reading from the autocue, and stepped forward right to
the edge of the audience, speaking without notes and looking around him . . .
not quite Graham Norton, but very definitely sending a signal, of "I'm not up
there, I'm down here among the rest of you".

The trend has been evident for ages. Year by year, the platforms get lower or
are abolished, and the political hierarchies are disguised. A Michael Portillo
confessional chatshow speech here; a breakfast TV sofa appearance there.
Sometimes it works.

More often, though, it does not. The television-public culture is more female,
open and emotional, just as the old public-speech rhetoric was more male. The
kind of men attracted to politics, seriously interested in power, are often the
kind of men who find it quite hard to open up emotionally - Michael Howard,
Gordon Brown, in fact most of the top tier of politicians.

And, after watching this stuff for a solid three weeks, I'm getting turned off
by it. I have left the most obvious case to the last. Nobody in political life
has been better at mastering and using the new post-ideological rhetoric of the
television age than Tony Blair. He has a wider emotional range than anyone else,
a natural instinct for the camera lens, and a readiness to sell himself as the
whole person - family man, sportsman, husband, regular guy. For a while it made
him the unchallenged matinee idol of British public life, so far ahead of the
scrabbling old-fashioned folk around him it was laughable.

But then what happened? We all know the answer. His fall from pin-up to
dartboard has been remarkably fast. Nothing makes people angrier or less
forgiving than to feel let down by someone they thought they knew. Personal
politics makes political betrayal equally personal. The stakes are so much
higher, the emotional rollercoaster that much harsher. Perhaps what we need is
that ridiculed third way, a conversational style that is frank but not
toe-curling, open but not saccharine. Judging by this autumn, nobody's found it
yet.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              153 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 7, 2004

Tory alarm at immigration plans: Shadow home secretary's claim that British
values are endangered marks new strident tone

BYLINE: Alan Travis and Nick Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words


The pledge by David Davis, the shadow home secretary, yesterday to
"substantially cut" immigration because it "endangered British values" sparked a
furious reaction within the Conservatives' ranks.

His promise to set a limit well below the current net migration level of 130,000
a year was wrapped in a strident tone that has not been heard from a senior
Conservative politician since Lady Thatcher's "swamping" remarks a generation
ago.

"Uncontrolled immigration endangers the values that we in Britain rightly
treasure," said Mr Davis. "We must act to secure the future - including the
future of our settled immigrant populations - before it is too late," he said
after claiming that uncontrolled immigration would "fill six new cities the size
of Birmingham over the next three decades."

His declaration that migration "endangered British values" sparked a horrified
reaction within the Conservative party. One senior Tory said: "That sent a
shiver down my spine. That is not the message we should be sending out."

One shadow minister said Mr Davis had "come close to breaching the line of
acceptability. There was a context for this speech, which is a pre- election
conference. But we will need to keep an eye on him."

The Liberal Democrats said Mr Davis's speech marked a lurch back into dangerous,
ignorant and inflammatory language and policies and pointed out that Michael
Howard had only yesterday paid tribute to Britain for giving his family refuge
after fleeing Nazi persecution.

Habib Rahman, of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, said: "The
majority of those who come to Britain do so because they share Britain's faith
in liberal democratic values."

The Tory party co-chairman, Liam Fox, was reported re cently to have told a
closed meeting that the party needed to talk tough about immigration to woo back
rightwing voters who were defecting to the UK Independence party.

Mr Davis made no apologies yesterday: "It is an issue of real public concern. It
will be a central issue at the next election and have no doubt: if the
legitimate parties don't discuss it, the real danger is that extremists will. We
will not give them that opportunity."

Although the Conservatives said this week they would leave it to parliament to
set a limit on migration Mr Davis made clear for the first time that it will be
substantially below its current levels in order to "reassure people about their
future".

He promised to reintroduce embarkation controls so people travelling to Britain
were checked in and out of the country, and reform the system of work permits.
Mr Davis also made clear the party still backs Oliver Letwin's idea of sending
asylum applicants to an island to have their claims considered: "We will also
push ahead with reforms to our asylum system, with a system of overseas
processing."

The shadow home secretary also promised much tougher action in the "war on
drugs" with random drug testing in schools, compulsory drug treatment or prison
for of fenders, and a pledge to build 20,000 more prison places at a cost of
£780m by the end of the decade.

Mr Davis claimed the introduction of random drug testing in schools was
justified by a Sun newspaper survey which had found that 100,000 children aged
13 to 15 had used cocaine. He said Britain had one million hard drug addicts for
the first time and said a Tory government would offer them a choice of treatment
or prison backed by a tenfold increase in the current 1,700 residential
rehabilitation places.

Conservatives in Bournemouth, page 15

Real Lives, G2, pages 6-7


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 7, 2004

G2: Face it, Michael, they are just not into you

BYLINE: catherine Bennett

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words


Two weeks since it was published in the US, a book that tells women to give up
their favourite hobby - banging on about men - has sold out everywhere. He's
Just Not That Into You: the No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys, written by
two former contributors to Sex and the City, was inspired by an episode of that
programme in which the lovesick harpies were introduced to the truth that, if a
man doesn't seem very interested in you, what it means is, "he's just not that
into you". Such is the revelatory force of this maxim that Oprah Winfrey told
her viewers it "could save you 20 years of therapy".

The book's authors point out that if, say, a man doesn't phone, or only does so
when drunk, or says he's not ready, or only wants to be friends, or has trouble
committing, or is also having sex with somebody else, there is absolutely no
point trying to find excuses for this, or any of the other forms of elusive male
behaviour. The pitiless explanation remains: "he's just not that into you".

Women who have studied HJNTIY, which is arranged in brisk, question-and-answer
format, have confessed themselves liberated, as well as chastened by its
sustained brutality towards self-deceivers. After all, why waste time? When a
man keeps you guessing, don't hang around making excuses and pining for what can
never be. As Greg Behrendt, one of the authors, snappily puts it: "you deserve a
fucking phone call".

The book is not published here until January; too late, perhaps, for the people
most in need of its guidance. After spending the past few days convincing one
another that the public can, somehow, be talked into liking them, the Tories, no
less than Oprah, and the averagely needy, 38-year-old Manhattan spinster, would
benefit from a few stark truths about self-delusion. Don't they see that it's
not us, but them? Can't they read the signals? We think they're toxic. When we
think of them at all. We'd rather get into bed with Ukip. There isn't any
chemistry. We're just not that into them.

Howard won't accept it. He's been over it with his girlfriends, and come up with
this excuse: we don't love because we have trust issues. We've been hurt too
much in the past, and now we're scared to commit. On Tuesday he reflected
mournfully on politicians who "made promises they have failed to keep". With the
dutiful, but abject air of a suitor who knows his pleas have no chance, he
promised that his party would work on itself: "We will only promise what we can
deliver . . . That's why we're setting out a clear Timetable for Action".

Admittedly, trust is now a widespread obsession, much traded on by Blair, whom
nobody trusts. But that does not stop Blair being ahead in the polls. Where
politicians are concerned, many of us never think about trust, so long as they
don't actually cheat. We're not into the Tories because they are irredeemably
pointless, not because we don't trust them. As for the "Timetable for Action":
great if it once worked for Mrs Howard - but unless her husband plans to break
free, with a new Railway Party, the public will not be so easily seduced.

The next excuse, favoured by many bewildered Tories, is the Manhattan high
achievers' classic: could people be intimidated by us?

Dave Willetts, who seems to favour this excuse, has stressed the importance of
trying to look human. Alan Duncan made the case for multiple make-overs. Several
cabinet members, even the posher and cleverer ones, duly claimed to have bought
pop CDs and kissed people of the female persuasion. It's strange, actually, that
the Tories didn't go further with this humanising business, stacking John
Redwood inside Nicholas Soames then storing the pair of them, out of sight,
inside some remote hangar. But it wouldn't have worked. A human appearance is
helpful for communicating something to other humans. The conference has shown
that the Tories have nothing to communicate. What's the point in making over a
corpse?

Then there's the bad-reputation excuse. This goes: people don't like us because
they think we're still nasty people of the night with a taste for padlocks and
manacles.

The Tories think that once we get to know them, and see their colourful pledges,
and realise they are just like New Labour, except for hunting, we will give way
to our true feelings. Don't they think this would have worked by now? It's not
as if we even like Labour all that much. Nastiness, nicely done, is miles more
effective than a black hole. Look at Kilroy-Silk.

To explain away rejection by a whole nation, as opposed to a single, hard-to-get
person, this excuse for a party relies on many more, supplementary excuses - the
bedblocker excuse, the Thatcher excuse, the Major excuse, the Hague excuse, the
Duncan Smith excuse, the confusion excuse, the too-many-leaders excuse, the Ukip
-flirtation excuse, the pinstripe suit excuse, the pipple excuse. Anything but
the plain fact: it's finished.

As Oprah and her fellow He's Just Not that Into You enthusiasts have concluded,
the truth need not necessarily be the enemy of self-esteem. Like the spurned
women of Manhattan, Howard and his fellow rejects should remind themselves
they're smart, beautiful, funny, wonderful people who deserve better. They're
not so much giving up, as setting themselves free. And if that doesn't do the
trick, think of the saving on therapy.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: CONFERENCE HIGHLIGHTS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 664 words


Return of the King

Michael Howard may be reticent about his life as a guitarist in a skiffle band
but, asked if he liked hearing Elgar as he walked on to make his keynote speech,
he confessed he preferred Elvis.

Biggest balls

Prize for the ballsiest Tory candidate goes to Pamela Singleton, selected as a
potential MP for Pudsey after she told Yorkshire Tories she had castrated a
pit-bull terrier. At a breakfast yesterday for women candidates it was made
clear the emasculation was not performed for fun, but because she is a vet.

Retro protest

Tories entering the hall are used to being bombarded with polemical pamphlets,
but yesterday activists were distracted by a man holding a placard demanding,
"Bring back Clause 28, the little boy's protection". The misplaced apostrophe
rather than the anti-gay sentiment caught Tory eyes.

Pigs' ear

Yesterday, Damian Green, who left the Shadow Cabinet during the reshuffle, was
replaced by several pigs in the hastily reprinted conference guide. Today John
Bercow, sacked as international development spokesman, has been airbrushed out,
along with Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Boris Johnson, above, both seen as potential
leadership contenders. What can it mean?

Overdoing it

Tory apparatchiks are worried that Ed Staite, keen young press officer to David
Willetts, the employment spokesman, may be working too hard. Ed, 27, has
apparently had only eight hours sleep all week, and was swaying with fatigue at
a late-night party as he tried to convince bleary hacks of the merits of
scrapping the New Deal.

Dressing down

A cold shower for the Tories comes from millionaire Alan Brown, a former bookie
who replaced Paul Sykes as UKIP's biggest funder. He now has a nice little
earner selling bathrobes. But it is only a matter of time till he pulls the plug
too.

Howard heckled

Michael Howard's visit to a rehab centre was heckled by a bystander who shouted:
"Fuck the Tories." A bystander said: "At least they care enough to notice."

Erased from history

At the Politicos bookshop in the conference hall, every book with a Tory
connection is on sale, from biographies of Churchill to Iain Duncan Smith's
novel. But absent was any book about John Major, prime minister for seven years.
Surely he cannot have sold out?

Taken for granted?

The big battle is over what party to attend. Shadow Cabinet members are said to
have had a "three-line whip" to go to the do run by News International,
publisher of The Sun, Times, Sunday Times and the News of the World, rather than
The Telegraph party which was light on top Tories. David Davis did help a blind
man and his guide dog fight through the throng of champagne-quaffing
Conservative activists.

Quote of the day

"Tony Blair doesn't trust people. He takes them in," said Michael Ancram, shadow
Foreign Secretary.

Joke of the day

David Davis on the Liberal Democrats: "At least we now know the truth about
tough liberalism. It is an oxymoron, with the emphasis on the last two
syllables."

A courageous act

As a top model in the 1960s, Sandra Howard, below, was accustomed to the glare
of camera flash guns, however yesterday she found herself gazing into a bank of
lenses once again as she made her first ever speech at a political event.

Michael Howard's wife, who spoke haltingly alongside two former heroin addicts
at an event promoting drug rehabilitation, declared "every parent would be
worried" about drugs today "because it's an endemic problem".

The Tory leader's wife, wearing a smart grey trouser suit, opened her address by
declaring "there's only one speaker in my family and it isn't me". But she won
over the packed room as she described the "courage" it takes for people
"struggling to break a habit" to kick addiction. Mrs Howard appealed for
donations to support more rehabilitation places but, although the fringe meeting
was bursting to seams, only pounds 20 was dropped in the donation bucket.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              156 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

LETTER: HOWARD SHUNS THE HERITAGE OF CHURCHILL

BYLINE: ANGUS B MACNEIL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 73 words


Sir: You have to laugh. For years the Tories, benefiting from the unfair
first-past-the-post electoral system, tried to keep a straight face as they
defended a silly voting system that hasn't yielded proper democracy for over 20
years. Now first-past-the-post is biting the Tories back as UKIP splits their
vote. The Tories find it quite easy to keep a straight face now.

ANGUS B MacNEIL

Isle of Barra, Outer Hebrides

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              157 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 7, 2004

'PARASITE' KILROY-SILK

LENGTH: 75 words


MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk was last night branded a sun-tanned parasite who is
wrecking the UK Independence Party.

Boxing promoter Frank Maloney, who stood for UKIP in the London mayoral race but
has since quit the party, said: "It is turning into the Robert Kilroy-Silk
party.

"It is being hijacked by a sun-tanned parasite who is devouring them from the
inside.

"They have awoken a beast whose ego will engulf and destroy them."


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              158 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 7, 2004

ONLY A RETURN TO THE OLD VALUES CAN SAVE TORIES

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 650 words


THE Tories are less popular now than they were under Iain Duncan Smith a year
ago, a poll found.

Now new leader Michael Howard is pledging no spin, no lies and no broken
promises in a bid to win back support. Sun readers say the Tories have a long
way to go judging by their unconvincing performance at the annual conference.

I HOPE the Tories use The Sun's advice to rebuild their party's health and come
out fighting.

With the election not far off, they need to stand up and be counted and not fade
into the background.

Their policies on immigration and inheritance tax are a good start but they need
to follow up with more of the same to pull in the voters.

PETER SINGER Leeds

THE once-great Conservative Party looks a shadow of its old self at the
Bournemouth conference.

To think that this was the party of Churchill, Macmillan and Thatcher! They are
beyond hope of ever returning to power.

JOHN CONNER Woolston, Hants

WATCHING the Conservative conference, I say just one thing to the delegates:
"Bring back Lady Thatcher. You are telling us nothing."

DAVID JOHNSON Hove, East Sussex

MONDAY'S "The Sun Says" comment was bang on the nail with its Monty Python style
"What have the Tories ever done for us?" skit.

Thanks for reminding those who vote Labour out of habit that, under Margaret
Thatcher, industry-crippling union power was crushed, more people owned their
own homes, taxes were lowered across the board -benefiting commerce and consumer
alike -and Britain stood up for itself in Europe. All those trends have been
reversed by seven years of New Labour.

WILLIAM HALL Liphook, Hants

I WANT to see the Conservatives take off the kid gloves when dealing with law
and order. They should investigate the allegations of fraud in Europe -and in
parts of the UK.

For example, Labour have poured millions into their heartland areas such as
Sheffield.

Plus we have millions wasted on the Scottish Parliament and billions wasted on
quangos all over the country. Will the Tories stop this?

ANTHONY ROGERS Sheffield

WHAT a novel idea by Michael Howard -to tell the truth. Although everyone knows
it happens, this must be the closest any politician has ever come to admitting
that lying is quite normal for our elected leaders.

MIKE GOODMAN Nottingham

AFTER the Hartlepool by-election, it is sad to see that the Conservatives are on
a downward slope.

UKIP are responsible for splitting the Tory vote three ways with the Lib Dems.

At the General Election it could be worse because traditional Tory voters will
be confused as to where their loyalties lie.

What makes it even sadder is that it was the Conservatives who dragged this
country into the 20th century, only for "New" Labour to siphon off the credit.

ALAN WAITES Deptford, South East London

THE Tories are a million miles away from a genuine push to regain control of the
nation unless they learn to listen to what the public are saying.

Their embarrassing fourth-spot result in Hartlepool illustrated people's lack of
interest in what they are presently doing and saying.

ANDY MURPHY Dudley, West Midlands

TORIES like Kenneth Clarke should join the Labour Party and the rest should join
UKIP.

Then we would have a true picture of who is for and against the Common Market.

The Tories will never again be a political force because their divisions are so
unbridgeable.

FRANK EDWARDS Bracknell, Berks

THE Tories can win the next election -but only if they return to their core
values.

They must start representing ordinary people by promoting policies that bring
back law and order to our streets.

Boot out the yobs, the muggers, the drug dealers, the vandals and the graffiti
slobs who spoil our environment.

If they do that, the Tories will win back the millions of voters who deserted
them in 1997.

MIKE ABBOTT Kew, Surrey


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              159 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 7, 2004

ONLY A RETURN TO THE OLD VALUES CAN SAVE TORIES

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 325 words


THE Tories are less popular now than they were under Iain Duncan Smith a year
ago, a poll found. Now new leader Michael Howard is pledging no spin, no lies
and no broken promises in a bid to win back support. Sun readers say the Tories
still have a long way to go...

I AM sick to death of Labour spin and Labour lies - but there is no other
option.

The Lib Dems want to sell us out to Europe, the SNP haven't a clue and the
Tories are in a real mess.

I am leaning towards UKIP.

But the Tories would be on to a winner if they went back to their old position -
strong on law and order and tough on immigration. Then bring in good policies on
health and education and Blair would be out.

JOHN BUCHANAN

Aberdeen

THE Tory performance at the party conference showed they still have much work to
do. The old splits over Europe won't go away and Labour have nicked many of
their traditional policies. Howard needs to get tough and prove he has the
charisma and policies to lead the nation.

SHEILA KILGALLON

Stirling

THE Hartlepool by-election result has shown that the Tories cannot win a General
Election. Coming fourth was a reward for them living in the past.

JIM KIRKWOOD

Grangemouth, Stirlingshire

I HAVE just two words to say to the Tories - Poll Tax. The Tories introduced it
in Scotland and now they claim they want a united country. They did more to
divide it than any other party by giving the Poll Tax to the Scots before the
rest of the UK.

J SIMPSON

Barrhead, Renfrewshire

HOWARD, Oliver Letwin and Liam Fox rightly attack New Labour - but the Tories
still look like a party dying on its feet. If they can't do better than fourth
in a by-election, they are a washout.

LES HOLYOAK

Ayr

THE Tories can win the election. Blair is so mis-trusted and so hated, the
Tories are a better option and they will soon outline the policies that can grab
the votes.

COLIN McMAHON

Glasgow


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              160 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

Blair led us into a perilous half-war, declares Ancram

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 580 words


* Remarks that trigger dismay in some Tory circles * Plans to increase defence
spending by £2.7 billion * A grilling on conkers, sopranos and improving party
image.

A FIERCE attack on Tony Blair for failing to prepare for a post-conflict Iraq
and misleading the public over weapons of mass destruction was made at the Tory
conference as the Iraq Survey Group report was being published.

Mr Blair was responsible for allowing a successful military campaign to
degenerate into a "dangerous half-war", Michael Ancram, the Shadow Foreign
Secretary, said.

"Tony Blair does not trust people. He takes them in. He took us in over weapons
of mass destruction. He should have trusted the British people with the truth.

Instead, he misled the British people and in doing so he has lost the people's
trust."

Mr Ancram, delivering one of his party's strongest critiques of Mr Blair over
Iraq, was speaking in a debate in which Nicholas Soames, the Shadow Defence
Secretary, set out plans to increase defence spending by £2.7 billion over the
next three years to save four threatened infantry regiments and to keep three
Type 23 frigates.

Mr Ancram said: "Tony Blair assured us even before the war that plans for
postwar Iraq were in hand. We now know there were none. Yes, the threat of
Saddam had to be dealt with otherwise that threat would still be with us, and
the risks of dealing with it potentially far greater now.

"That is why our Armed Forces did us proud. They played their part in the war
with enormous courage and professionalism. They had the right to expect a
comprehensive plan to win the peace.

"There should have been plans for Iraq's own security forces to play from the
start a greater role in securing public order. There should have been plans to
prevent insurgency gaining a foothold. There should have been plans to give
post-Saddam Iraq employment and hope rather than despair and a ready excuse for
hostility.

"In each case there were no plans. And that failure has helped turn a successful
war into a dangerous half-war. And the price for that failure is now being
paid."

Colonel Tim Collins, known for his inspirational speech to troops on the eve of
the Iraq war, gave warning in his speech that defence cuts could reduce the
armed forces to the "also-rans of Europe". He told the conference that any
reduction in training would put young soldiers' lives at risk and stop Britain
defending itself from the growing terror threat.

Colonel Collins, who has now left the Army, also urged the Government not to axe
historic regiments, saying that they were the backbone of the Forces. He said:
"A successful operation does not happen by accident; it happens through hard
training. This is no time to be reducing our armed forces; this is no time to be
reducing our defences."

Mr Ancram played down the challenge from the UK Independence Party. He said:
"There is only one party determined fundamentally to reform Europe and
determined to reclaim control of our own destiny that can possibly form a
government. And that is the Conservative Party."

Mr Soames said that the Conservatives would scrap Labour plans to axe historic
army regiments and warships if they win the next election. He set out plans to
spend £2.7 billion more on frontline defence than Labour over the next three
years, made possible by efficiency savings at the Ministry of Defence identified
by the James review as well as other savings.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

Where will the UK's tectonic plate be in the distant future?

SECTION: Features; 75

LENGTH: 107 words


We often see illustrations of how tectonic plates have moved over the millennia.
Will they continue to move and, if so, where will the UK's plate be in the
distant future?

I can't claim to know the answer, but I have no doubt that Mr Blair is
instructing new Labour geologists to prove that Britain will end up in New York
Harbour; Mr Kennedy is telling the Liberal geologists to prove that we will end
up in Ostend Harbour; Mr Kilroy-Silk is asking UKIP geologists to prove that the
answer is "all by ourselves in the middle of the Atlantic"; and Mr Howard can't
find a Tory geologist.

Patrick Martin, Winchester, Hampshire


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

It's been a week of fantasy politics

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 950 words


The Tories have barely begun to do what is necessary to win back power

THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY is no nearer to power -and, in many ways, it is farther
away than earlier this year. The party's problems have, however, been masked by
the harmonious conference in Bournemouth.

The party feels good about itself, a lot better than for some time. This is
partly relief at the contrast with last year's dismal conference just before
Iain Duncan Smith was forced out. Michael Howard has helped to restore party
morale. In his speech, he articulated many of the Tory faithful's concerns -on
Europe, crime, the role of the State and immigration -in terms they understood
and liked. Tory policy-making on choice in public services is also more
substantial. The David James review of government costs is a serious piece of
work, which Labour cannot dismiss with its usual "slash and cuts" attack. There
has been a sharper edge to the conference. The smartly suited young
professionals have returned, as they did to Labour in the 1990s.

However, there is little sign that the outside world is either listening or
impressed. The Tories still seem a predominantly English rural party that does
not understand urban, let alone inner-city, life. "Not our natural territory",
Liam Fox's excuse for the party's poor by-election results, exposes the limits
to the Tories' reach and ambitions.

Too often, Tories seem to be against not just Tony Blair but also modern
Britain.

The party can claim fairly that the issues it is highlighting are high on
voters' list of concerns. The real doubt is about the Tories' solutions. There
are genuine problems about creating a fair and efficient system for handling
asylum seekers.

But instead of portraying immigration as a threat, politicians should admit that
inflows of people into Britain are an inescapable counterpart of the free flow
of capital and trade which the Tories champion. Moreover, immigration is part,
though only part, of the answer to the problem of how to keep up the size of the
workforce in face of the growing number of pensioners. The key issue is less the
numbers of new immigrants, than how to integrate them.

Similarly, the Tories' Eurosceptic shift has been obscured by the absurd
squabbles in the UK Independence Party (UKIP). The Tories should not count on
always being saved by Robert Kilroy-Silk's vanity and ambition. UKIP is as
serious a threat to the Tories as the Militant Tendency was to Labour in the
1980s. This is not because UKIP candidates are likely to win any seats or even
influence the results in many; the Referendum Party probably cost the Tories
only three or four MPs in 1997. But fear of the UKIP's impact is affecting the
Tories.

The danger is political, rather than electoral. UKIP is seen by many Tory
members as over-zealous friends who can be won back. Hence, Mr Howard's appeal
to UKIP voters to return to the Tories as the only party that can bring powers
back from Brussels to Britain. This is more an argument about tactics than a
rejection of the UKIP case.

Mr Howard repeated his call for repatriation of fisheries and aid policy, and a
commitment to leave the social chapter. It was his tone, though, that was most
revealing. His emphasis was wholly anti-EU. He did not refer to the constructive
work of Tory MEPs in the EU over, for example, the internal market. Mr Howard
hopes that his hand will be strengthened by a big "no" vote in a British
referendum on the EU constitution, so other EU countries will agree to a British
renegotiation. This is a big gamble; it might force a high-risk confrontation
with the rest of the EU.

Mr Howard's speech and his recent Shadow Cabinet reshuffle ("I'm back", as John
Redwood proclaimed on Monday to the delight of Labour's election strategists)
have reinforced the impression of a party still struggling to engage with
voters. Of course, many members of the Shadow Cabinet, such as David Willetts,
Tim Yeo and David Cameron, have signalled that they recognise the problem. But
there is little appetite at the top for change.

This week has partly been an exercise in fantasy politics, as opposition often
is.

All the stuff about actions to be taken on the first day, week and month of
office in yesterday's "Timetable for Action" paper matters mainly as a start to
the Tories' long-term campaign to rebuild credibility. In the short term,
however, no one seriously pretends that the Tories can win the next election.
The real debate among Tory MPs is about whether they can gain 30, 40 or (the
most optimistic) 50 extra seats, not the 164 needed for an overall majority.

Even Lord Saatchi, with all his research and charts, does not claim that Labour
will lose its majority. His figures point more to a sharp fall in the Labour
vote, with only about a quarter going to the Tories, rather than to the Liberal
Democrats and other parties. The Tories face an electoral dilemma. It is in
their interests for the Lib Dems to do well in Labour-held seats, but not, of
course, in the previously Tory seats won by the Lib Dems in 1997 or 2001.

One possible, even likely, result of the next election is that the Tories could
climb from 165 to between 200 and 220 MPs, even if their overall share of the
vote hardly rises. That would enable the traditionalists to make the mistaken
claim that further change is unnecessary. A modest electoral recovery is the
nightmare of the "modernisers".

Mr Howard looks increasingly like John Smith in the 1992-94 period, a reassuring
figure who keeps up his party's spirits but who fails to challenge his party.
The Tories have barely begun to do what is necessary to win back power.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

HOWARD: MY FIVE POINT BATTLE PLAN

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 6; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 787 words


MICHAEL HOWARD gave the speech of his life yesterday with a powerful appeal for
new politics built on trust and straight talk.

He lifted the eyes of the party faithful away from dismal poll ratings to the
election battle ahead.

Despite having a mountain to climb to topple Labour, the Tory leader convinced
his party that victory is there for the taking.

He did it with a speech that was statesmanlike, direct and brimming with policy
pledges as he promised action, not words.

He unleashed just one attack on Tony Blair but it was crushing.

The Prime Minister had not told the truth on Iraq, he said, and could never be
trusted to lead the nation to war again.

Mr Howard delighted the Bournemouth conference as he vowed to halt further tax
rises and to cut taxes when he can.

He committed a Conservative government to bringing power back from Brussels.

The tough line on Europe was pitched at Tory supporters who have shifted
allegiance to the UK Independence Party.

Mr Howard's chances of winning them back were boosted when Yorkshire millionaire
Paul Sykes, who has bankrolled the UKIP, withdrew his support and said he would
be backing the Tories at the next election. Mr Howard promised the 'gloves will
come off' in the battle against crime and pledged an annual ceiling on the
number of immigrants allowed into Britain.

He also gave the party faithful the ammunition they want to take out on the
campaign trail a fivepoint pledge list that sets out his priorities: 'School
discipline. More police.

Cleaner hospitals. Lower taxes.

Controlled immigration.' Crisp and straightforward, they are tailor-made to
maximise the Conservative vote in the seven months between now and the election,
expected next May.

They make few concessions to party 'modernisers' who are calling for a
softer-focus Conservatism.

In contrast with the actorly, egocentric flourishes from Mr Blair at his
conference last week, the Howard performance was measured, businesslike and
frill-free.

There were few flights of oratory but it scored high on sincerity and
seriousness. Crucially, Mr Howard looked ready for power in a way that neither
of his predecessors, Iain Duncan Smith and William Hague, ever did.

At the heart of the speech was a passionate call for a new style of
polwhichitics. Politicians were not trusted, he said. They make promises they
fail to keep. 'We will only promise what we can deliver,' he said. 'What we
start, we will follow through. And we will give clear measures against we can be
judged.' Mr Howard said a new Timetable for Action would set out what a Tory
government would do and when it would do it.

'There will be no wiggle room.

Everyone will be able to hold us to account. No dodgy facts and figures.

We'll have no place to hide.' He heaped scorn on a Prime Minister 'swept away
with his rhetoric and his dreams'. He had called the euro our 'destiny'.

'Most people don't actually want a date with destiny. They just want a date with
a dentist.' There was plenty of boldness, too.

Mr Howard warned that the Human Rights Act had tipped the balance away from the
victim towards the troublemaker. 'If it can't be reformed, we'll get rid of it.'
On immigration, a Tory government would announce its intention of pulling out of
of the 1951 UN Refugee Convention within a week of taking power.

The Convention ties the Government's hands over the handling of asylum seekers,
even if they are bogus. 'We'll do what we say,' Mr Howard went on.

'There'll be less talk, more action.' He added: 'Neither party has a monopoly on
virtue. But I do believe there are times in our history when Conservative ideas
are more relevant to the challenges Britain faces. And we have reached one of
those times today.' He electrified the Tory faithful with a closing passage of
enormous emotion, reducing many to tears as he explained that he had been born
in July 1941, two weeks after Hitler invaded Russia.

He told how he owed his life to Britain's willingness to shelter his Jewish
parents from the Nazis.

'Everything I have and everything I am I owe to this country,' he said.

'My grandmother was one of those killed in the concentration camps. If it hadn't
been for Winston Churchill, and if it hadn't been for Britain, I would have been
one of them too.

'I owe my life to Britain. My father said to me this is the best country in the
world. I think it was.

And I think it still is. But I know it could be doing so much better.

'And it's because I think I can make things better that I am standing before you
today. Put simply, I want to give Britain just a tiny bit back of what Britain
has given to me.' Comment Page 14

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              164 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

MIDAS BACK IN THE TORY FOLD

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1319 words


MICHAEL Howard's election hopes received an unexpected boost yesterday when the
multimillionaire backer of the UK Independence Party switched his support to the
Tories.

Paul Sykes delighted the Conservative leader by urging UKIP supporters to vote
Tory as the only way of stopping Britain's 'drift to Brussels'.

Angry UKIP members turned on their party's MEP and former television presenter
Robert Kilroy-Silk, who was blamed for driving Mr Sykes away.

The defection threatened to leave the party in financial turmoil with just eight
months to a likely election.

UKIP's reliance on Mr Sykes was plain earlier this year when he contributed half
the party's Pounds 2million fighting fund for the European elections in June,
which saw the party seize 12 seats as it pushed Labour into third place.

Last night, however, another donor, Kent businessman Alan Bown, promised to make
up the shortfall.

Mr Bown, who has already given the party Pounds 500,000, told BBC Radio 4's The
World Tonight he would 'continue to fund any shortfall that's necessary through
Paul's withdrawing'.

Mr Sykes worth a reported Pounds 500million objected to UKIP's decision to field
candidates against all Conservative MPs.

He decided to act after Mr Kilroy-Silk's aggressive speech to the UKIP
conference last Saturday, in which he said the party had a duty to 'kill off'
the Conservatives.

His defection delighted the Tory high command, and electrified the party's
conference in Bournemouth ahead of Mr Howard's keynote speech.

Its embarrassing fourth place behind UKIP in last week's Hartlepool by-election
left it fearing the anti-European party could cost it seats in the general
election expected in May.

But last night Mr Sykes claimed UKIP has no chance of winning any Westminster
seats let alone of forming a Government.

The party had done well in the European elections, he said. 'But when it comes
to a general election in Britain the last thing we want to see is the unseating
of euro-sceptic Conservative MPs who need to stay in Parliament to continue the
fight.

'There is no likelihood of UKIP ever forming a Government or even electing one
or two MPs so I cannot finance or assist them,' he said.

Mr Sykes has twice resigned from the Conservative Party in protest at what he
said was its weak stance on the single currency. He made clear yesterday he has
not rejoined the Tories and has no plans to offer financial backing.

But his endorsement of Michael Howard as the only credible politician on Europe
will give the Tories muchneeded breathing space in their marginal seats.

Mr Howard's officials denied any deals had been done to woo back Mr Sykes.

They said Mr Howard only learned of the switch of allegiance late on Monday
night.

John Redwood, who has kept in touch with Mr Sykes, played down claims that he
had played a part.

'He wants to protect democracy in this country and has been swayed by the
arguments,' he said.

Mr Sykes agreed. 'There's been no kind of behind-thescenes deal in smoke-filled
rooms. I've not met Michael Howard, I didn't even go to the conference. I'm not
even a member.' He praised Mr Howard's performance as leader, saying he was
'getting better'. He added: 'We now have a No to the euro forever, and No to the
constitution, as well as renegotiating aspects of European law.

'Which is why I would appeal to all UKIP voters. Without the Conservatives we
have no chance of getting what we need and we are playing into the hands of
Labour and the Lib Dems who are going to fasttrack us straight into an
integrated system that the British people have never voted for.' He urged Mr
Howard to consider calling a referendum on British membership of the EU.

'He speaks out for the British people who have not had a vote on the European
issue since 1975,' he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who is trying to unseat UKIP leader Roger Knapman, put a brave
face on the setback, confident other sources of cash would be found.

He claimed the party would go ahead with its plans announced on Wednesday to
stand candidates around the country even against eurosceptic MPs with vulnerable
majorities.

'What we can't have and Paul understands that from me we can't have the party
policy decided by the man with the biggest chequebook,' he said.

In an extraordinary show of good relations, he and Mr Sykes and their wives met
for lunch in London yesterday, insisting their personal friendship was unharmed.

Mr Bown, a retired bookmaker, was adamant he would be able to fill the gap left
by Mr Sykes's departure.

'Two hundred thousand pounds would be no problem,' he said. 'I'm not saying I
can raise Pounds 1million overnight, but I have a considerable property
portfolio and I'm happy to back whatever it takes. Obviously we are going to
miss Paul's money.

'Paul's been terrific. But life goes on.' b.brogan@dailymail.co.uk

Schools

THE TORIES vowed to create more than half a million school places and restore
discipline in the classroom yesterday as part of a package of education reforms.

The party says it will start abolishing restrictions that prevent good schools
expanding and new ones opening within days of taking office.

Education spokesman Tim Collins said this would create 600,000 school places
giving thousands of parents real choice for the first time over where they send
their children.

He also unveiled plans to stop further closures of schools for children with
special needs, to cut back on red tape and to encourage a major expansion in
faith schools.

Mr Collins said the Tories aimed to give teachers immunity against being sued
and to scrap Labour's target of 50 per cent of youngsters going to university.

Lax discipline has led to a teacher being attacked every seven minutes while one
in three pupils is leaving primary school unable to read and write properly.

Health

PATIENTS will be able to have their operation at any hospital they choose, and
within 'weeks rather than months', health spokesman Andrew Lansley told the
conference.

'If, at the end of the day, we choose our local hospital fine, that is our
choice,' he told the conference.

'But if you want to be treated in weeks rather than months, or one hospital has
high infection rates on the ward, then you should be able to choose another
hospital.' Dismissing Labour charges that the Tories want to destroy the NHS, he
said 'nothing matters more' than its future.

As it was 'submerged in bureaucracy' he would abolish central targets imposed on
hospitals.

Subsidies for private operations will be offered, with up to half the cost of
having them done on the NHS given to patients choosing to go private.

On dentistry, the Tories will provide the option of paying a regular monthly fee
likely to be around Pounds 10 for NHS treatment. There would be no extra charge
for any work carried out.

Hunting

ENVIRONMENT Minister Elliot Morley was last night accused of pushing through a
ban on hunting as 'revenge' for the loss of steelworkers' jobs under the last
Tory government.

James Gray, Tory spokesman on the countryside, savaged the Government for
refusing to consider compensation for 8,000 people expected to lose their jobs
when the ban comes into force.

'When I raised this in Parliament, it was very interesting to see Elliot Morley,
a Labour Minister, very Leftwing and concerned about the working man,' he told a
Countryside Alliance fringe meeting.

'He said, "You people put steelworkers out of work in my constituency so I can
do it to you".' Mr Gray also launched a furious attack on Rural Affairs Minister
Alun Michael.

Last night a spokesman for Mr Morley said Mr Gray's allegations were 'not true'.
He added: 'In fact, James Gray should check Hansard and apologise.'

The Tories vowed to reverse the hunting ban if they win the next election.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BRAVE FACE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK HAD LUNCH WITH MR SYKES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              165 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

Pounds 500m miner's son with a Victorian wife to iron his underpants

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_2ND_04; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 761 words


TEN years ago he walked out on the Conservatives in disgust because John Major
refused to say No to the single currency.

Since then he has used his phenomenal wealth to pressurise successive Tory
leaders whenever they showed signs of going soft on Europe.

His Pounds 500million fortune, coupled with a single-minded devotion to freeing
Britain from the stranglehold of Brussels, makes 61-year-old Paul Sykes a
political force to be reckoned with.

Yesterday the Yorkshire entrepreneur demonstrated once again his unerring knack
for political showmanship.

By withdrawing his financial support from the UK Independence Party and
endorsing Michael Howard, he lifted the threat that has hung over the Tories
since its dismal fourth place behind UKIP in the Hartlepool by-election.

His appeal to UKIP voters to back Mr Howard at the next election as the only
anti-EU alternative to Labour and the Lib Dems gave a fillip to the Tory
leader's tough line on Europe.

It marked the latest step in a zigzag political odyssey that has seen Mr Sykes
repeatedly offer and then withhold his support from the Tories depending on
whether the party met his exacting standards on the European question.

In 1994 he resigned his 30-year membership and his place as a Parliamentary
candidate in his native Barnsley in protest at Mr Major's 'wait-and- see' policy
on the euro.

To make matters worse for the Tories, he offered cash to any candidate who
refused to back the Major line in the 1997 general election. In all, he spent
Pounds 1.6million.

The effect was devastating.

Coupled with the ruthless campaign run by Sir James Goldsmith's
Referendum-party, it helped take 500,000 votes away from the Conservatives and
cost the seats of a number of Tory MPs.

The election of William Hague, a tough-talking fellow Yorkshireman, appeared to
bring him back into the fold, but within months he had left the Tories again,
claiming he was not euro-sceptic enough.

Out of the remnants of the Referendum Party he founded the Democracy Movement
and focused on targeting MPs to grill them on their European voting record.

When Mr Hague hardened the Tory line by promising a referendum on any further
European integration including the euro in 2000, Mr Sykes promised to provide
Pounds 20million for campaigning.

Whether the money ever materialised is an issue that still divides the party.

But by the time of the 2001 election, Mr Sykes was pumping Pounds 100,000 a day
into UKIP's campaign chest, on the understanding that the party would not
challenge any Tory MPs who were implacably opposed to the euro.

By background alone, Mr Sykes should be a Tory. He is a self-made millionaire,
the son of a miner who left school with no qualifications at 15 to work as a
tyre fitter.

He quickly got into business, dealing in car parts before branching out to deal
in second-hand buses and lorries, selling them at profit to the Far East.

At 24 he heard the Beatles described as the first musicians to be earning Pounds
1,000 a week. He was then earning Pounds 3,000 a week and drove a Rolls Royce.

In the 1970s and 1980s he invested in out- of-town retail complexes. He
reportedly made Pounds 280million for his share of the Meadowhall shopping
centre near Sheffield. In later years, he joined the Internet boom, making
Pounds 50million from his company Planet Online, and was involved in the
successful launch of Freeserve.

He met his wife Valerie when they were 23, and they have been together ever
since.

Theirs is a traditional relationship so much so that he describes her as
Victorian.

SHE does the cooking and irons his underwear, leaving him free to fight
Britain's case against Brussels. His on-off affair with the Tories is mirrored
by his on-off relationship with the trappings of wealth.

By 1998 he had got rid of his yacht, private jet and 17-bedroom mansion, trading
them in for a sixbedroom cottage and just one credit card.

But two years later the playboy equipment was back, with a Pounds 2million new
jet and a Pounds 3million yacht with a crew of five moored in the South of
France.

Despite being number 73 on the Sunday Times rich list, he buys his clothes from
Marks & Spencer, doesn't smoke or drink, and sent three of his four children to
state school for fear that a private education might give them airs.

Worse for them, he does not believe in inherited wealth.

His money will go instead to environmental causes, a passion that stems from his
boyhood obsession with birdwatching.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TOP: PAUL SYKES AND HIS FORMER HOME. ABOVE: WIFE VALERIE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

Straight talk in an age of distrust

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 645 words


AN ACTOR'S flounce and flourish in Brighton, plain talk in Bournemouth; a
drippingly hammy performance from Tony Blair last week, simple
straightforwardness from Michael Howard yesterday; and in that telling contrast
the battered, beleaguered Tories may just have reason to hope.

It would, of course, have been absurd for the Tory leader to engage in flights
of rhetorical fancy.

With his party fourth in Hartlepool, languishing in the polls, besieged by UKIP,
challenged by the Lib Dems and written off by some pundits, platform posturing
would only have invited ridicule and disbelief.

No, this was a moment for unvarnished language and sober realism. And with those
weapons, Mr Howard went to the heart of the issue facing not just the
Opposition, but the Government too: the crisis of trust.

New Labour's dishonesty and spin, preceded by the sleazy Major years, have all
but destroyed public faith in politicians, whatever their party.

So why should anyone believe the Tories?

In the speech of a lifetime, Mr Howard was clear. 'We will only promise what we
can deliver. That's why we're setting out a clear Timetable for Action. What
we'll do. When we'll do it. . .There will be no wiggle room'.

Indeed. It is a measure of his seriousness that voters will be able to judge
from day one if a Tory government is keeping faith.

Take crime. On his first day in Downing Street, he will bin the nit-picking
forms that keep police handcuffed to their desks instead of on the beat. In his
first week, he will end Labour's early release scheme for prisoners. In his
first month, he will start recruiting 5,000 more police a year.

And his rigorous timetable doesn't end there.

Restoring discipline to schools. . . setting a date for the referendum on the EU
constitution . . . scrapping bureaucratic Whitehall targets in the NHS and
education . . . restoring the link between pensions and earnings. . .

tackling the asylum shambles by pulling out of the 1951 Convention on Refugees .
. . all these will be in train within weeks of a Tory victory.

In the longer term, he looks forward to his boldest endeavour yet a full-scale
review of our relationship with the EU, which would involve getting Britain out
of the disastrous Common Fisheries Policy and withdrawing from the burdensome
social chapter.

Time was when such a proposal inevitably provoking a head-on collision with
Brussels would have torn the Tories asunder. Today, it not only goes with the
grain of party opinion, but with public opinion too.

And tax? Mr Howard insists he's not like Tony Blair. 'I'm not going to make
promises I can't keep'. But he is determined to cut taxes 'when I can' and
intends to stop the rises planned by New Labour after the election 'dead in
their tracks'.

Trust . . . accountability . . . credibility . . . if Michael Howard has begun
to reclaim these virtues for his party it is not because of oratorical tricks,
but because he spoke from the heart. As the son of a refugee from unimaginable
tyranny, he owes his life to Britain. His emotion was unfeigned when he said he
wants to put something back.

But more than anything, this was a Tory leader prepared refreshingly and
unequivocally to advocate the moral case for Conservatism: low taxes. . .

smaller government . . . families spending their own money far more wisely than
any politician or bureaucrat ever could . . . and the selfreliance that is the
ultimate bulwark against the 'rights' culture that is so damaging to modern
civic society.

Mr Howard will never be a cuddly politician.

He will never be an actor. But he spoke for the best of Britain yesterday.

After seven years of mendacity and incompetence from Mr Blair and his
spinmeisters, the great challenge for the Tories now is to carry that conference
message to the voters of tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              167 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

Michael Howard's values are honest, decent and prudent. Those offered by Blair
are none of these. One day there will be a future for a party willing to make

BYLINE: MAX HASTINGS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 14; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1746 words


IT WAS a rallying cry to a beleaguered party at a bitterly unhappy moment in its
history, and he strove manfully. In place of Blair's shameless fantasy Britain,
unveiled in Brighton last week, Michael Howard offered the Tories a prospect of
reality: attainable and practical policies.

He also had a key phrase that, in better times for the Conservative Party, might
echo across Britain: 'What people want from their politicians is accountability,
responsibility and a little humility - the very opposite of what they are
getting from Tony Blair.' Mr Howard sought to express his own humanity, together
with the lessons Conservatives have learned from past failures in government,
and past disappointments in opposition. His speech deliberately eschewed the
theatricality of Blair, and addressed the huge failures of New Labour
government.

In a just world, Howard's words would be worth two or three points in the
opinion polls in the long run-up to next year's General Election.

His difficulty, of course, is that he was not addressing his party faithful in a
just world. What is taking place in Bournemouth this week is less of a political
conference than a medical one.

A crowd of surgeons and consultants is gathered around the bedside of a
chronically sick patient, whom the chart at the end of the bed proclaims to be
'The Conservative Party'.

The specialists are debating medication, incisions, transplants, therapy.

They do so in full knowledge that much of Britain does not seem to care if
somebody switches off the lifesupport system.

The quality in shortest supply is hope - courage, if you like. Most conference
delegates despair of electoral victory in 2005. Many, in their hearts, are
fearful that it will be hard for the party to regain power even in 2009.

The bulk of Britain seems to have become disaffected by Tory people and policies
in a fashion so profound that even now, when Tony Blair has forfeited the
regard, and even respect, of a host of voters, they will not adopt the obvious
recourse of voting for the only credible party of opposition.

Conservatives have been expelled from the cities - their MPs represent less than
10 per cent of Britain's major metropolitan areas. They have become a party of
the old: more 18 to 34 year olds identify with the Lib Dems than with the
Tories.

This summer, I sought out some of the brightest younger Conservative MPs and
candidates.

Privately, all acknowledged the alienation which they encounter even among
middleclass voters.

One said: 'In my constituency, a lot of the younger ones think Tories are
Martians.' Another sent me a letter after we lunched together. He wrote bleakly:
'We seem to have been discussing "The Strange Death of Tory England".' What a
predicament for Michael Howard, who has saved the party from the ridicule of the
Iain Duncan Smith era, but seems unable to make the breakthrough to the
electorate beyond. What a predicament for the British people, who desperately
need an alternative government.

The revival of the Tories has ceased to be a partisan issue. It has become a
vital interest for our democracy. It will be a catastrophe for the political
health of this country, if Labour cannot be displaced in 2009. How can this be
done?

First, the Tories should rally behind Michael Howard, acknowledging that no
Opposition leader can defeat Tony Blair as long as the economy holds up
miraculously well, and so many people are complacent in unthinking prosperity.

Only when the electorate is forced to confront the bill for Labour's giant
spending spree, to feel the pain in their own pockets, will they turn seriously
to an alternative. That is the nature of our modern materialistic, pretty
mindless democracy.

The Conservatives have striven manfully for new policies to woo voters - 'When I
can, I will cut taxes,' said Michael Howard yesterday. His party also promises
an annual limit on immigration; lifting educational standards; reviving
pensions; a real increase in defence spending to arrest the Government's
reckless cuts in the British Army; unshackling the chains of business regulation
and promoting enterprise; rejecting the European constitution; and a review of
the pernicious consequences of the Human Rights Act.

All these things are absolutely right, and should be seen as such by an
electorate that is thinking rationally. It is hard to see how a responsible
Opposition could offer more. It would be madness to enter a bidding war with the
flat-earthers of the UK Independence Party.

As Tory Shadow Cabinet minister Tim Yeo said last weekend: 'We will win only if
we focus on the centre ground.' A party of the hard Right could win a British
election only amid a national cataclysm, which is today mercifully hard to
anticipate.

Politics ought to be about policies, many of them of the kind which the
Conservatives are putting forward. Yet when the economy is buoyant, politics is
also bound to be about personalities.

The Tories' principal problem is that they are perceived by most of the nation,
and especially most of those under 30, as yesterday's people.

They are almost all men. They look and sound like toffs or city slickers or
estate agents. They support arcane causes like fox hunting. They are not
Ordinary People, as defined by Greg Dyke or Chris Evans or the sort of bloke you
sit next to on Saturday at Man U.

I am not here concerned with whether any of the above is fair or reasonable, but
with what voters think, and tell opinion pollsters.

Look at last week's YouGov poll on Tory leaders. Some people told questioners
they would be more inclined to vote Conservative if Portillo or Hague or Clarke
or Shrek was leader. I don't really believe this. Many more respondents said,
absurdly yet plausibly, that they might vote for the Tories 'if their leader was
somebody younger'.

God help us, you may say. Yet it is a waste of time to deplore, as so many
Conservatives are this week deploring in Bournemouth's bars and hotels, the
perceived awfulness of the British electorate. It is the only electorate we have
got. Somehow, it must be wooed and won by any party that wishes to rule.

All the Tory talk for months has focused on 'Who Follows Michael?' It is
universally acknowledged, perhaps even privately by the man himself, that some
time after next year's election, a successor must be chosen to contest the one
after.

If the Tories are smart, they will not let Howard resign the morning after
losing the poll, as William Hague did, precipitating the outbreak of madness
which brought us Iain Duncan Smith. The party must stop and think, long and
hard, while Howard holds the ring.

David Davis is bound to be a serious contender, although many Tories suspect
that if they find him dislikeable, so will the electorate. Liam Fox is an
incorrigible lightweight.

A return of Hague is much discussed - yet remember his misjudgments. His chief
counsellor was the featherweight Sebastian Coe. It was Hague who delivered power
in the party to its dying rank-and-file membership, with a perpetual mandate to
repeat the follies of the past.

As for the Letwins and Redwoods, the party needs their brains, as it needed
those of Keith Joseph a generation ago, but the British people will never love
them. Today, a substantial majorityof MPs favours Malcolm Rifkind. He is a
serious politician who deserves a place in any future Tory Cabinet - as does
Hague. Yet I do not believe the sober, sensible, pedestrian Rifkind is capable
of striking a resonance with the new Britain, of leading the Tories back to
power.

This brings us to the governor of California, and what I shall call 'the
Schwarzenegger solution'.

Boris Johnson has achieved a celebrity and glamour a million miles beyond that
of any other Tory frontbencher.

He is young, clever, witty, and engages the public in a fashion not one of his
parliamentary colleagues can match. Doubts persist among his colleagues about
whether he is a serious politician, or merely a brilliant entertainer who enjoys
an uncommonly colourful lifestyle.

It would be a huge risk to choose Boris as Conservative leader. Yet it is hard
to dispute the Conservatives' need to identify a prospective leader who
possesses stardust of a kind which all other contenders lack.

The celebrity culture is a fact of the 21st century, however lamentable it may
seem. Blair played to it in 1997 with brilliant success.

He matched an apparent seriousness about the issues people care about with a
glamour no member of the Tory Shadow Cabinet possesses.

If the Conservatives want to nation whose public services are held together only
with a massive papering of our banknotes.

Some day in the next decade, a rainstorm will wash them away, revealing issues
which must be addressed, choices which cannot be avoided, tough decisions which
must be made.

Then, the Tories must be fit to take the reins again, as the party which knows
how to make things work in Britain, as today they do not work.

Michael Howard said yesterday: 'This is the best country in the world - but it
could be so much better.' The challenge for the Tories is to persuade the nation
that they can make it so.

The hardest task, in this their week of anguish, is to keep their nerve and
avoid succumbing to false prophets, especially those who yearn for a return to
the old certainties of the 20th century, and Right-wingers who believe a party
can define itself merely by a hatred of Europe and a commitment to stem
migration.

Some time, there will be a future in power for a party which is willing to do
unwelcome and painful things, to reward working people, curb the power of the
state and shed the plastic values of New Labour.

Michael Howard, caretaker of the party amid its exile from power, has kept the
ship afloat, has restored its dignity if not its popularity. What more could be
asked of him?

The values he proclaimed yesterday were honest, prudent and decent, when those
offered by Tony Blair in Brighton last week were none of those things.

It was never likely that Howard could become Prime Minister.

That will be a task for another leader, at another time. For now, for the next
five years, the challenge is to convince the British people that the Tories are
people of the future, not the past.

It has become a vital national interest, and not merely a party political one,
that they should succeed.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              168 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 477 words


PROMOTED as the 'Scud Stud' during the siege of Baghdad, BBC TV reporter Rageh
Omar landed an Pounds 850,000, two-book contract from Penguin Press. They claim
his first volume, Revolution Day, out in March, sold 25,000. His second, about
Somalia, isn't due until 2006. It isn't expected to be a blockbuster, either. A
publishing source says: 'Sounds like a disaster.

Recoup their advance? Not in 12million years. The deal was sold at a blind
auction. No one knew what others were offering. The nearest offer to Penguin's
was Pounds 500,000 less.'

MICHAEL Howard's big speech at Bournemouth was interpreted for the deaf by a
sign language expert. There was a tense moment when the Tory leader said, during
a passage on crime: 'You hear it all the time "I've got my rights" the verbal
equivalent of two fingers to authority.' After a slight pause, the 'signer' duly
gave the V-sign.

AFTER Mr Howard's speech, party spin doctors stressed three points: 'Confident,
tough, personal speech'; 'Gloves off on crime'; 'Ministers who screw up will be
fired'. Certainly this last point was applauded vigorously by junior members of
the shadow team.

WINSTON Churchill's granddaughter Emma Soames, pictured, took over as editor of
Saga magazine 'to put the hip into hipreplacement'. Might she also have made her
fortune? The group has been bought out by the management for Pounds 1.35billion.
Emma's in line for a senior management position and a tranche of shares. A
spokesman says, 'Andrew Goodsell is the new chief executive and I would have
thought she would become part of his team but the equity stake is yet to be
decided and, as it's a private company, it won't necessarily be disclosed.'

THE return of Yorkshire sugar daddy Paul Sykes to the bosom of the Conservative
Party after flirting with UKIP coincides with the recent elevation of John
('Scourge of the EU') Redwood to the shadow front bench.

Did the Tories haul Mr Redwood back on their careening sled to please Old
Moneybags? A senior source says: 'It's true Mr Redwood brokered the deal whereby
Mr Sykes returned.'

HAVING played the part of Howard Hughes in the forthcoming film The Aviator,
Leonardo Di Caprio has bought two adjacent apartments in the late billionaire's
favourite old haunt, Las Vegas. Can baby-faced Leonardo, 29, ever match the
amatory achievements of Hughes, who, prior to going crackers, canoodled with
(among others) Ava Gardner, Ginger Rogers, Bette Davis and Jane Russell?

HISTORY don Orlando Figes bumped into Chelsea's billionaire boss Roman
Abramovich in the gents at the River Cafe and told the Russian oligarch that
he'd written some books about his native land.

Send them round, said the got-rich-veryquick tycoon. Now Mr Figes complains that
he hasn't had a 'thank you' note.

Serves him right for hawking books in lavatories.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              169 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2004

SO WHAT'S **!**! EATING ELTON?

BYLINE: ALISON BOSHOFF

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2005 words


WHAT is the matter with Elton John? First there was that undignified hissy fit
at Taiwan airport last month ('Rude vile pigs! Pigs! Pigs,' he screamed at
photographers, a vision of fury in an extremely orange toupee and unflattering
shiny blue tracksuit).

Then he turned on Madonna at the Q Awards at London's Grosvenor House Hotel on
Monday night, accusing her in a fog of four-letter expletives, of miming her
songs.

Dressed in an outfit by designer Yohji Yamamoto, complete with bizarrely
exaggerated trouser turn ups and pointy patent shoes, he interrupted the
standing ovation he was being given to vent apparently genuine fury about
Madonna's nomination in the Best Live Act Category.

'Madonna, best f***ing live act? F*** off,' he spat. 'Since when does lip
synching count as live? Sorry about that, but I think anyone who lip synchs at a
show which you pay Pounds 75 a ticket to see should be shot. That's me off the
Christmas Card list. But do I give a f***? No.' Yesterday the singer was back in
the U.S. and incommunicado at his lavishly appointed home - one of five around
the world - in Atlanta. He didn't want to add anything to what had already been
said, according to his spokeswoman. 'He's not going to be expanding on it. He
just said what he said at the time.' His entourage are attempting to shrug off
the explosions as simply 'Elton being Elton'. There is, friends say, no
particular reason why he attacked Madonna, or was rude about Taiwan for that
matter. It's just that Elton is a passionate kind of person, who feels first,
opens his mouth, and then thinks about it half an hour later.

But the question his friends and associates are unable to answer is just why
he's so very angry in the first place.

For Elton, adored for years by the British record buying public as the Queen
Mother of Pop, increasingly appears as a vain, bitter and empty man who loathes
himself and a lot of other people, too, a man bored to fury by his own excesses.

His relentless extravagant spending on clothes, shoes, jewellery (he has a
penchant for 'rude' jewellery and gave his long-term partner David Furnish a
diamond ring bearing the words F*** You), parties and artwork is a case in
point. He once splashed out Pounds 293,000 in 20 months on flowers, Pounds 3,500
on a wig to wear to a party and Pounds 220,000 on matching his 'n' his red
Bentleys for himself and Furnish.

At first it all raised an indulgent smile.

Now, the spectacle of a Pounds 170 million fortune being so ridiculously
squandered strikes many as grotesque.

Added to that is his growing and unsavoury reputation as the most petulant man
in showbusiness. In the past year he has exploded with rage over everything from
Joan Collins endorsing the United Kingdom Independence Party ('It's for people
of Joan Collins's age - it's for 80 year olds.') to Robbie Williams ('Not a well
budgie') and Blair's health policies ('Get your act together. It's a
disgrace.').

A few months ago he screamed unrepeatable obscenities at a female photographer
who dared to snap Elizabeth Hurley, concluding vilely: 'I hope you die of cancer
of the clitoris.' What is behind such rage? Elton's spokeswoman insists that,
for all his chippiness, all in his garden is rosy.

'He is doing great, he has an album out in November and is performing in Vegas.

He is still with David and very happy.

There is nothing wrong.'

SHOWBUSINESS rumours suggest otherwise - more of which later. But what is clear
is that despite more than a decade of therapy, the man born plain Reginald
Dwight in Pinner, Middlesex in 1947 is still consumed by self-loathing.

Photographers are guaranteed to provoke him because even after 30 years in the
spotlight he hates the way he appears - a dumpy little man in a bad toupee.

'Elton hates being photographed because it holds a mirror up to reality,' sighs
Furnish.

This sensitivity about his appearance prompts extreme measures: he has himself
completely shaved of body hair (including legs, arms and back) every six weeks
and will not travel without 'Paul', his personal hairdresser who looks after
those extravagant yet unconvincing toupees. Recently, he gave total control of
his wardrobe to the designer Yamamoto in an effort to appear more stylish.

'I'm a heavyset guy,' he says. 'I'm stocky. I've always had a body-image
problem. No self-esteem. And that will never, ever leave me. It's improved, but
I'm hypercritical of myself and the way I look.' What is more extraordinary is
that he is similarly hypercritical about his musical talents. Even though he had
sold 80 million albums before he was 30 and has won every award - including an
Oscar - thanks to his outstanding songwriting ability, his career still does not
satisfy him and he remains insecure about his status in the music world.

It pains him that more respected artists fail to cite him as a musical influence
and he loathes being perceived as a middle-of-the-road musician by the younger
generation.

OKAY, I'm not everybody's cup of tea,' he said last month. 'But sometimes
criticism can be hurtful. Be respectful; I'm a good piano player, I can sing
well, I write good songs. If you don't like it, fair enough. But give me a
break.' In this context, his attack on Madonna makes more sense. How deeply
irritating it must be to Elton that Madonna's credibility with younger fans
outshines his when he is by far the more talented musician.

He wrote one of his best-loved ballads, Your Song, in just half an hour and his
latest album, Peachtree Road, took him two weeks to write. If he cannot work out
a melody within an hour, he says he simply abandons it.

It is an ability which verges on genius and surely this, coupled with his
apparent happiness with long-term partner Furnish, would be enough to cure him
of his angst.

Certainly, Elton has claimed that Furnish - whom he met in 1993 - has improved
his self-esteem and cured him of his legendary tantrums.

'I still have that streak in me, but the tantrums don't happen so much any more.
They're more to do with self-esteem, nothing to do with shouting at people
because things have gone wrong.

'They happen when I'm tired, and I just get in a snit. But David knows exactly
how to deal with them. He talks me through it, saying "Calm down" and that's
it.' Clearly it isn't. The man who was ranting on stage at the Q awards this
week is not a man who is at peace with himself and there are persistent whispers
that his relationship with Furnish is to blame.

Despite claims earlier this year that he and Furnish would waltz up the aisle as
soon as same sex marriages became legal, some in the gay community claim their
liaison is now 'only platonic'.

Others say that the former Canadian advertising executive, who is 41 to Elton's
57, enjoys an open relationship with the star in the same way that Kenny Goss
does with George Michael.

Officially, those suggestions are all denied. The couple remain very much
together and Furnish was at Elton's side at the Q awards.

What cannot be denied, though, is that the couple are involved in differing,
demanding projects which mean that there have been some longish separations of
late.

Furnish has his own social life and career, and is often to be found in
nightclubs, gyms and at parties without his partner. He says that other men like
to flirt with him and this must be torture to his sensitive other half.

Added to this, Elton finds performing and travelling draining, which may partly
explain his latest outbursts.

He hates the promotional grind which accompanies every album release. ('I don't
know how Mrs Jagger does it,' sighs Elton, camply. 'Mick talks to everybody when
she's got an album out.') In his defence, those close to Elton say that his
current bad behaviour barely ranks on the Richter scale of his historically
terrible tantrums.

He has stormed out of concerts, hotels and planes on the flimsiest of excuses
and once demanded of his entourage: 'Can't you do something about the wind?'
when he decided that the breeze outside his hotel was disturbing his peace.

One instance of impossible behaviour concerns singer Tina Turner, who tried to
show him how to play the blues classic Proud Mary on the piano while they were
rehearsing.

He exploded with rage, screaming at Turner that no one told him what to do.

And although he later apologised and they performed together, that was the end
of their friendship and professional relationship.

'I learned the hard way that you don't tell Elton what to do, otherwise he
throws a little boy tantrum,' Turner said. 'Nobody is right all the time. It
just seems Elton is very, very sensitive.' Sensitive is one way to describe it.
Others say less charitably that he delights in his power 'to call a spade a
f***ing shovel' and thrives on throwing his weight around and making
unreasonable demands.

John Reid, his former manager, once said bitterly that Elton had an amazing
ability to blame someone else for everything that happens to him.

For years, of course, this behaviour was linked to myriad addictions to drink,
drugs and food.

On a video shoot in the South of France for I'm Still Standing in 1983, Elton
guzzled eight vodka Martinis in 30 minutes. He woke to find a trashed hotel room
and was told that, following an argument, he'd sat on Reid and repeatedly
punched him until his nose was broken.

'I was cocaine-addicted. I was an alcoholic. I had a sexual addiction. I was
bulimic for six years,' Elton has admitted. 'It was all through being paranoid
about my weight, but not able to stop eating. In the end I'd gorge myself, then
deliberately make myself sick.

'For breakfast I'd have an enormous fry-up, followed by 20 pots of Sainsbury's
cockles and then a tub of Haagen-Dazs vanilla, so that I'd throw it all up
again.' He was a monster of ego and megalomania. 'I could be unbelievably
horrible and stupid. On tours, I'd get on a plane, then get off it, maybe six or
eight times. I'd walk out of a hotel suite because I didn't like the bedspread.'
After the tantrums would come fits of black despair when he'd lock himself away
and consider suicide.

It was finally only in 1990 that he checked in to the Parkside Lutheran Hospital
in Chicago for treatment. He attended more than 1,500 meetings of Alcoholics
Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous.

THERAPIST to the stars, Beechy Colclough, who has treated him in London,
observed: 'He's a totally addictive, compulsive person. If it hadn't been the
alcohol, it would have been the drugs. If it hadn't been the drugs, it would
have been the food. If it hadn't been the food, it would have been the shopping.
Only he's got all four.' Elton's tantrums subsided as he began to solve the
problems in his personal life, but he was still capable of bad behaviour.

The 1996 documentary, Tantrums And Tiaras showed that Elton could be abysmally
childish. He was seen storming off a tennis court on the Riviera ranting that he
was 'never coming to the south of France again' because a woman fan had called
'Yoo hoo' during a game.

To his credit he was chastened to see some of his excesses on screen. 'I looked
at myself and thought: "She's an absolute cow."' However, this destructive
pattern of self-loathing and lashing out has continued.

One of Elton's therapists told him that his anger was all about his career which
was a 'ball and chain' around his neck preventing him from reaching happiness.

He genuinely believes that to be true, and to that end has announced his
retirement at least twice in the past five years. So far he has never carried
out his threats to quit and there are those who say he never will.

As Beechy Colclough observes, it is a complicated and unhappy situation which
keeps him creating music and performing, even though he doubts his talent. 'He
is only happy when he's playing,' says Colclough. 'The thing is, he never
believes the audience reaction, because he hates himself.'

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TAIWANESE TERROR: ELTON, SURROUNDED BY MINDERS, LASHES OUT AT REPORTERS
AFTER FLYING INTO THE COUNTRY FOR A CONCERT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              170 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 6, 2004

WE'LL MAKE THIS COUNTRY GREAT, SAYS HOWARD; TRUST ME

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words


BATTLING Michael Howard blew away the Tory gloom yesterday by unleashing a
ten-word manifesto to make Britain great.

The Conservative leader had his party weeping tears of joy with a highly
personal plea for the nation's trust.

In a make-or-break appeal to the country, Mr Howard branded Tony Blair an
"all-talk, no action" liar and said only the Conservatives could be trusted not
to break promises.

And summing up the Conservatives' plan for Britain in just 10 words, Mr Howard
promised: "School discipline; more police; cleaner hospitals; lower taxes;
controlled immigration."

His first conference speech as leader delighted the faithful and sent a warning
to Tony Blair that the struggling Tories aren't finished yet.

In a moving climax, Mr Howard told the Tory conference in Bournemouth how "I owe
my life to Britain" and was determined to make the country better.

Mr Howard ripped into troubled Prime Minister Mr Blair, blasting: "People are
fed up with talk. They want action. Tony Blair has been all talk."

Mr Howard vowed to restore the public's trust in politicians by making the
Government accountable to voters.

If the Tories win the election, Mr Howard promised to instantly sack any
Ministers who "screw up". He told Tory representatives: "It's hardly surprising
that people don't trust politicians today.

"In the real world, if you say you're going to do something, you do it. And if
you screw up, you can lose your job."

Promising an end to Downing Street spin, Mr Howard said: "There will be no
wiggle room. Everyone will be able to hold us to account. No dodgy facts and
figures. We'll have no place to hide."

In a withering attack on Mr Blair's credibility, Mr Howard said: "In the run-up
to the war, Tony Blair did not tell the truth.

"He did not give a truthful account of the intelligence he received. He did not
behave as a British Prime Minister should."

In a highly-personal climax, Mr Howard told how his family escaped to Britain
from the Nazis.

He said: "When I say I owe everything to this country, I really do mean it. I
owe my life to it."

Mr Howard got a massive boost as the UK Independence Party lost support from
mega-rich Paul Sykes.

Taking the Mike

MOST people don't actually want a date with destiny. They just want a date with
a dentist.

I was born in Wales.

We've just been left off an EU map. I know I've had my differences with Brussels
but this is ridiculous.

I won't pretend I can solve every problem, right every wrong or cure every ill.
I'll leave that to the Liberal Democrats.

True-blueprint for Britain

SCHOOL DISCIPLINE

MR Howard said a Tory government would cut red-tape, allowing schools to banish
serial yobs ensuring "disruptive pupils won't be able to wreck other children's
education".

MORE POLICE

THE Conservative leader promised a "war" on thugs and drugs if elected. He
called for more bobbies and prisons and blasted Labour for increasing police
paperwork.

CLEANER HOSPITALS

HE savaged the Government over filthy hospitals, saying his mother-in-law died
of a superbug in an NHS hospital. He said hospital infections were bigger
killers than roads.

CONTROLLED IMMIGRATION

HOME Secretary David Blunkett was slammed by Mr Howard, saying four out of five
failed asylum seekers weren't deported.

LOWER TAXES

THE Opposition leader pledged "fairer, simpler, lower taxes", but vowed not to
make promises he couldn't keep. "When I can, I will cut taxes."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              171 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 6, 2004

KILROY RAPPED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 21 words


EURO MP Robert KilroySilk will be disciplined if he demands to be head of the
UKIP party, its leader Roger Knapman warned.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              172 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 06, 2004, Wednesday

Howard pledges action not words Tory leader puts trust at centre of election
strategy Timetable of changes from Day 1 in power

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 673 words

MICHAEL HOWARD staked his claim as prime minister-in-waiting yesterday by
galvanising the Tories to fight an election on core policies of law and order,
immigration, Europe and curbing wasteful spending.

Addressing his first Conservative conference as leader - and probably the last
before an election in May - he put the issue of trust at the centre of his
strategy.

He said he would not make promises on tax cuts that he could not keep and he
questioned the honesty of Tony Blair on the Iraq war.

In an effort to make trust a major issue in the election, he accused the Prime
Minister of failing to give a truthful account of the intelligence he saw before
the war.

Mr Howard made a direct appeal to supporters of the UK Independence Party to
back the Tories as the only party capable of forming a government that would
bring powers back from Brussels.

After UKIP pushed the Tories into fourth place in last week's Hartlepool
by-election, morale among Tory representatives was lifted by the news that it
had lost its biggest financial backer, Paul Sykes, a multi-millionaire Yorkshire
businessman.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter, who is UKIP's best-known
Euro-MP, insisted that the party would still be able to find the money to field
candidates in every constituency provided it made him leader.

Mr Sykes stood by his decision after talks with Mr Kilroy-Silk, saying he was
"warming" to what he was hearing from the Tories.

The loss of his cash will be a severe blow to the anti-Brussels party's
prospects of mounting a nationwide challenge that could threaten Conservatives
in marginal seats.

Mr Howard sought to capitalise on the disarray in UKIP's ranks by making clear
that, if elected, he would be the most Eurosceptic occupant of No 10 since
Britain joined the EU 30 years ago.

He promised to go further than any previous government in renegotiating the
terms of membership of the EU, setting a date for a referendum on the European
constitution on the first day of a Conservative government. "If you want to
bring powers back from Brussels, whatever party you are from, come and join us,"
he said.

Although the speech at Bournemouth was uncompromising on traditional
Conservative policies, it underlined Mr Howard's personal belief in fairness and
decency and his determination to restore trust in politicians. He also put
emphasis on a "timetable for action" from day one of taking power.

The speech was in marked contrast to last year's by Iain Duncan Smith, who was
given 17 stage-managed standing ovations in an attempt to shore up his position.

Some people in the hall were in tears after Mr Howard spoke of his background as
the son of Jewish refugees who fled the Holocaust. His grandmother perished in a
concentration camp.

He said he owed everything to Britain and wanted to give "just a bit back in
return for what Britain has given me".

While underlining his commitment to getting back "on the path to lower taxes" -
helping the poorest households and the teachers, doctors and policemen who were
now paying the top rate of income tax - he stopped short of giving any specific
pledges.

Mr Howard said that Labour and Tory politicians had failed to keep earlier
promises to cut tax and he would not give the electorate "a false prospectus".

A Tory government would freeze Civil Service recruitment and cut wasteful
government spending. "When I can, I will cut taxes," he said.

Mr Howard made clear that restoring school discipline and tackling crime would
be at the forefront of the Tory election campaign.

Unlimited immigration could not be allowed to continue and the Tories would set
an annual limit on the number coming into Britain.

Mr Howard's speech delighted activists and anti-European MPs, who said he was
now "rebuilding a Eurosceptic coalition".

However, Labour described the speech as a "lurch to the Right".

Ruth Kelly, the Cabinet Office minister, said a "desperate" Mr Howard had failed
to take the Conservatives back to the centre ground of politics.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              173 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 06, 2004, Wednesday

Sykes dangles prospect of UKIP cash

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 09

LENGTH: 457 words

THE multi-millionaire who turned his back on the UK Independence Party yesterday
dangled the prospect of money for the Conservatives if they hardened their Euro-
sceptic policies.

Paul Sykes, who refused to reconsider his decision to end all funding for UKIP,
made clear he was not seeking to interfere in Tory policies.

But asked whether his millions would now be available to Michael Howard's party,
Mr Sykes, 61, replied: "Let's see how the policies evolve."

He pointedly reminded the Tories that almost three million people voted for UKIP
in the June European elections and had backed its clear policy of full-scale
withdrawal from the European Union.

"If they want to get those voters, they will apply similar policies and similar
commitments," Mr Sykes said.

The comments will send a shiver down the spine of pro-European Tories.

However John Redwood, a member of the shadow cabinet involved in talks with Mr
Sykes, immediately ruled out any attempt to match UKIP's policies on Europe.

Mr Sykes was UKIP's biggest donor and gave the party pounds 1.4 million this
year. But he delighted the Tories by pulling out after UKIP's decision to fight
all seats at the general election, even if that meant unseating Eurosceptic
Tories.

Mr Sykes, a former Conservative Party member, also took issue with the call from
UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk to "kill" the Tories.

He insisted yesterday that the decision to dump UKIP was his own, saying: "I
make up my own mind."

But in the past few weeks he is understood to have held talks with at least
three members of the shadow cabinet. Mr Redwood, brought back to the front bench
by Michael Howard partly to combat the UKIP threat, spoke to Mr Sykes several
times last week.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who yesterday met Mr Sykes for a pre-arranged lunch, insisted
that the Yorkshire tycoon was "not indispensible".

Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker who is UKIP's second-biggest donor, said he would
meet any shortfall left by Mr Sykes's departure.

He told the Evening Standard: "I will continue to support UKIP to the full. I
will provide substantial donations and any support necessary."

Mr Bown is understood to have promised Mr Kilroy-Silk pounds 50,000 to fight
Westminster seats in the East Midlands region he represents as a Euro-MP.

However Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader in the European Parliament, admitted that Mr
Bown's support was more to meet immediate shortfalls.

UKIP would "struggle [for funds] for a national campaign", he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk has admitted that Mr Sykes's withdrawal removes at a stroke the
national campaign fund he had boasted of last month.

But he said he would stay in the party and claimed he had been offered "a
five-figure sum" to bid for the leadership.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              174 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 06, 2004, Wednesday

Hague warns against taking a tougher line on Europe

BYLINE: By George Jones and Toby Helm

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 10

LENGTH: 349 words

WILLIAM Hague, the former Conservative leader, yesterday cautioned against any
move to harden the party's policies on Europe in an attempt to win back voters
from the UK Independence Party.

Mr Hague fought an unsuccessful election campaign in 2001 largely based on
"saving the pound" but yesterday indicated the next election should not be
dominated by Europe.

He told BBC Radio that Michael Howard should not attempt to "buy off" people who
are thinking of voting for UKIP by a change in policy.

He said the Tory leadership had to get across the message that Conservative
voters who switched to UKIP were "more likely to end up with a Labour Government
that represents the exact opposite of what you wish to see" - one that would
give more powers to Europe.

He warned that Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire multi-millionaire, who has withdrawn
financial backing for UKIP, could change his mind again and return to supporting
the anti-Brussels party.

"He likes the maximum dramatic effect for minimum expenditure. That's fine, but
it does mean that he changes from time to time," said Mr Hague, a fellow
Yorkshireman.

Michael Howard's speech yesterday in which he promised a Tory government would
seek to return powers from Brussels has strained the fragile truce between the
party's Eurosceptic and Europhile wings.

John Redwood, brought back into the shadow cabinet last month, backed Mr Howard,
even though he is one of the party's most hard-line anti-Brussels members.

He said Mr Howard's pledge to call an early referendum on the European
constitution, seek a No vote and then go to Brussels to demand a renegotiation
of Britain's membership terms, was the "best deal" the Eurosceptics would get.
"They need to recognise that," he said. The pro-Europeans claimed yesterday that
Mr Howard's position on renegotiation was tolerable provided it was not extended
in new areas.

Mr Howard's senior aides said last night that he would not give any further
ground to the Eurosceptics despite their attempts to pressurise him to leave
open the ultimate option of withdrawal from the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              175 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 06, 2004, Wednesday

Michael Howard plays a blinder by the seaside

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 25

LENGTH: 774 words

Elgar's Nimrod was the perfect anthem to accompany Michael Howard's speech to
the Conservative conference in Bournemouth yesterday. As its familiar melody
rose to a crescendo in the hall, the party's spirits were lifted, too. The
audience was taken back to a time when the Conservatives were the natural party
of government; when their commonsense philosophy was shared by millions of
households in cities, suburbs and villages; and when Britain was at ease with
itself at home, and feared and respected abroad.

But Mr Howard did not merely address himself to the nostalgic, flag-waving
activists in the hall. He displayed the steady, often unglamorous virtues any
future prime minister should possess. He offered a prospect of leadership that
has little to do with the flashy platitudes of Tony Blair, nor with the
opportunism he himself has been accused of. Instead, Mr Howard demonstrated a
near fixation with accountability and practical policy implementation. His
poignant account of the murder of his grandmother in a Nazi concentration camp
revealed his deep-seated respect for a society where rights are balanced by
reciprocal duties. "I owe everything to this country," he said. And he meant it.
So while there is something rather comforting and 1950s about his world view,
his idiom and his policies are thoroughly contemporary.

The conundrum Mr Howard set out to answer is: if Labour is so unpopular, how
come the Tories can do no better than level-pegging in the polls? He believes,
rightly, that this is because the public is fed up with politicians generally.
After being let down first by John Major's administration and now by Tony Blair,
they are tired of politicians' extravagant boasts and wild promises. So instead
of the lavish rhetoric of New Labour in its heyday, when Mr Blair promised to
smash the forces of conservatism and to transform Great Britain into New
Britain, Mr Howard concentrated on a believable agenda: "What people want from
their politicians is accountability, responsibility and a little humility."

He then went on to make some traditional Tory commitments to be initiated in the
first month of office. Less form-filling for the police and more officers on the
beat; a tenfold increase in spending on treatment centres for drug addicts;
giving head teachers the final say in expelling pupils; reviewing the Human
Rights Act; an annual limit on immigration; choice in education and healthcare;
closing the Downing Street delivery unit as a step towards slimming down
government bureaucracy; and renegotiating our membership of the EU. In places,
the speech was cautious. There will be lower taxes, he said. But, like the
shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin, he refused to give a specific promise of which
tax will go when. He also glossed over his pension policy, which needs more
work.

There are dangers to Mr Howard's strategy. In deliberately eschewing rhetorical
bells and whistles, he risks appearing boring. Indeed, the conference slogan -
"A timetable for action" - could have been coined by David Brent in BBC's The
Office. And, although Mr Howard's promises are clear and modest, they are still
just that: promises. As Janet Daley points out on the opposite page, a sceptical
electorate might find even these incredible. But if Mr Howard failed to live up
to his words in government, the electorate would easily be able to hold him to
account and vote the Conservatives out.

Mr Howard pulled off a trick which eluded his three predecessors: sticking to
Conservative principles, while appealing to the centre ground. But there is more
than his speech to cheer the Conservative Party today. Its luck, which seemed to
desert it over a decade ago, is returning.

This time last week, Mr Howard was preparing himself for fourth place in the
Hartlepool by-election. That humiliation was well-deserved after a lacklustre
nine months in which he failed to live up to the promise of his acceptance
speech as leader, allowed UKIP to recruit from his natural supporters and
flip-flopped over the war in Iraq.

Now Mr Blair has set off a prolonged leadership battle in his own party; and
UKIP shows signs of imploding as the businessman Paul Sykes has withdrawn
funding after Robert Kilroy-Silk revealed his objective - to "Kill the Tory
party".

More important than these developments is a cultural shift. With security
threats abroad and the rise in anti-social behaviour at home, the electorate is
in a conservative mood again. Yesterday, Mr Howard deferred to that sensibility
admirably.

Conservatism is coming back into vogue; now it is up to the Conservatives to
harry Labour from office.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              176 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 6, 2004

HOWARD'S 10-WORD MANIFESTO; SCHOOL DISCIPLINE, MORE POLICE,CLEANER HOSPITALS,
LOWER TAXES, CONTROLLED IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn and Kirsty Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 844 words


MICHAEL Howard roared back to political life yesterday - unleashing a 10-word
manifesto to take on Tony Blair.

Where the Prime Minister last week issued a lengthy and confused 10-paragraph
list of aims for a third Labour term, Mr Howard went straight for the political
jugular, promising: "School discipline, more police, cleaner hospitals, lower
taxes, controlled immigration."

In a powerful conference performance which banished his party's woes over last
week's Hartlepool byelection, the Tory leader lambasted Mr Blair for failing to
deliver solutions to a huge array of problems that are undermining the quality
of life for hard-working families.

He also set out his intensely personal reasons for taking on the Tory
leadership. He told the Tory faithful how he owed Britain "everything",
including his life, for giving his Jewish parents refuge from the Nazis when
they fled eastern Europe.

Speaking in Bournemouth, Mr Howard repeated his charge that Mr Blair did not
come clean in the runup to the war with Iraq. "He did not give a truthful
account of the intelligence he received. He did not behave as a British prime
minister should."

The Tory leader received a boost yesterday when multi-millionaire Paul Sykes
said he would stop bankrolling the UK Independence Party and would support the
Conservatives. Feeling on a winning streak, Mr Howard spelt out his manifesto:

CRIME THE former hardline Home Secretary said crime was the first problem he
would "get a grip on", promising: "The gloves will come off. What Giuliani did
in New York, what Ray Mallon did in Middlesbrough, we'll do for the whole of
Britain. A war on crime."

As well as unveiling proposals for 5,000 extra police officers each year, he
pledged to clampdown on paperwork, putting more bobbies on the beat, abandon
Labour's early-release scheme and promised a 10-fold increase in the number of
drug rehabilitation places, from 2,000 to 20,000.

TAXES TORIES would implement a civil-service jobs freeze, root out waste and put
Britain "on the path to lower taxes".

While the Opposition leader made no specific promises, he said the Conservative
philosophy - that people should be big and the state small - made reductions in
the tax burden essential.

"People work hard for their money and they deserve to keep more of it.

Families know better than any government can how best to spend their money. So
be in no doubt - when I can, I will cut taxes."

He identified stamp duty, inheritance tax, council tax, taxes on savings and
pensions and income tax thresholds as unfair features of the tax system which
would be top of a Tory hit-list.

IMMIGRATION MR Howard promised that no future Tory home secretary would ever
back David Blunkett's "no limits" policy on immigration. Instead a Conservative
government would impose an annual quota to limit the number of people allowed to
move to Britain from abroad.

Under the Tories Britain would withdraw from the 1951 UN Refugee Convention to
allow asylum cases to be decided more quickly, bogus asylum seekers to be
deported and "genuine refugees to get to the front of the queue".

EUROPE IN a bid to win over Euro sceptic voters Mr Howard promised to bring
power back to Britain from Brussels.

He issued a direct appeal to voters following the Conservatives' humiliating
fourth-place defeat in the Hartlepool by-election last week and warned that
Ukip's rise could cost Tory seats at the general election.

He pledged that a European constitution referendum date would be set on the
first day of government and confirmed his party would say "no" to the euro,
social chapter and common fisheries policy.

HOSPITALS THE Tory leader pledged to eradicate hospital superbugs after watching
his mother-in-law die from an infection. He highlighted the scandal of dirty NHS
wards, pointing out that more people died of hospital infections than on
Britain's roads.

He pledged that in the first week of a Tory government, his ministers would
start to scrap Whitehall targets for hospitals and schools.

"We'll trust patients and parents too, so they can choose the hospital and
school which best suits them and their family."

SCHOOLS THERE would be a massive crackdown on disruptive children and revealed
that a Conservative government would create an additional 600,000 school places.

Recent figures show that the numbers of pupils booted out of school for bad
behaviour had dropped. Conservatives would give heads the final say on
expulsions. "Disruptive pupils won't be able to wreck other children's
education, " said Mr Howard.

PENSIONS CONSERVATIVES would restore the link between pensions and earnings,
giving elderly people an extra GBP 7 a week for a single person and GBP 11 a
week for a couple.

Condemning the "scandal" of rising council tax bills and the recent pension fund
crisis, Mr Howard said he would "deliver" for pensioners. He said Chancellor
Gordon Brown had destroyed pensions by his "stealth" taxes and he vowed to give
elderly people back their dignity.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              177 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 6, 2004

LEADER - TYCOON BRINGS SUNSHINE TO BOURNEMOUTH; WHY PAUL SYKES HAS BREATHED NEW
LIFE INTO THE TORIES

BYLINE: Simon Edge

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 690 words


EARLIER this year, the magazine Yorkshire Business Insider named Paul Sykes the
23rd most powerful person in his native county. This week the Barnsley-born
tycoon's influence seems to have soared - and not just in Yorkshire.

Having pulled the financial plug on the UK Independence Party, he has not so
much thrown a lifeline to Michael Howard as despatched an entire fleet of rescue
vessels.

Sykes is easily Ukip's biggest donor, having given the extreme anti-EU party GBP
1.4million of his half-billion-pound fortune. This helped it knock the
Conservatives into a humiliating fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election, and
Ukip looked set to inflict serious damage on the Tories at the general election.
Mr Howard was a dead man walking; one poll even compared him unfavourably with
Iain Duncan Smith.

Now the Tory leader's political obituaries are being hastily returned to the
drawer. Sykes may not yet be a kingmaker but the man who once said he had no
real interest in party politics may have altered the course of British political
life with a twitch of his chequebook.

The ability to wield such power would have amazed the teacher who predicted a
future for Sykes as a road-sweeper. Leaving school at 15 with no qualifications,
the blunt-speaking miner's son worked for two years as a bottle-packer and
tyre-fitter before buying an old bus for GBP 70 and selling the parts for GBP
100. He never looked back, selling vehicle parts to the Far East and making his
first million by the time he was 28.

He moved into property development, backing the giant Meadowhall shopping centre
in Sheffield, and in 1989 he was Britain's highest-paid man. In the late
Nineties he made GBP 47million when he sold his stake in the Internet service
provider Planet Online, which he had co-founded just three years earlier. He is
now Britain's 78th richest man.

Saying he does not intend to leave a penny to any of his four children, he has
instead spent a chunk of his fortune on his campaign to dismantle Britain's
relationship with the EU.

While democracy is meant to give each voter an equal voice, he makes no secret
of his desire to use his money to get his way. "I'll spend every last penny I
have, " he vowed earlier this year.

At the time, that looked like good news for Ukip, which he has bankrolled since
before the 2001 election. He became a senior strategist, leading a massive
expansion. Then came Robert Kilroy-Silk's speech at Ukip's conference last week,
in which the high-profile MEP spoke of his ambition to "kill" the Tories.

For Sykes, that went too far.

"There is only one major party now that is anti-Brussels, " he said on the Today
programme yesterday. "I am warming to what I hear from the Conservative Party
and I have no intention of upsetting their applecart."

Kilroy must have been kicking himself: less than a month ago, Sykes was calling
for him to take over as Ukip leader, even though the job was not vacant.

But in his sudden switch of allegiance lurks a warning for Tory MPs with slim
majorities who are breathing a sigh of relief in Bournemouth. The fact that
Sykes has taken his ball home this week doesn't mean he won't kick it back on to
the Ukip pitch before the polling stations open. Sykes has conducted a political
hokeycokey in and out of the Tory party. In 1991 he resigned after more than 20
years' membership, in protest at the Maastricht Treaty. Persuaded to return, he
was the candidate in Barnsley Central when, in 1995, he stood down. He quit
again in protest at John Major's "wait and see" stance on the euro.

AT THE 1997 election he gave more than GBP 1million to eurosceptic Tory
candidates but, a year later, he pledged GBP 20million to the Democracy
movement, uniting his own campaign and Sir James Goldsmith's anti-Tory
Referendum Movement.

In the run-up to the 2001 election, he was tempted back into the Tory fold by
William Hague but at the last minute he backed out, denounced Hague and put his
money behind Ukip.

So Michael Howard can give thanks this week for the stroke of luck. But he would
be unwise to count his electoral chickens.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              178 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 6, 2004

Comment & Analysis: If you think Blair is a Tory you should see the real thing:
Labour transformed itself: so must the opposition

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee in Bournemouth

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1162 words


It may have been Michael Howard's big speech, but the man who towers over this
conference is not here. Tony Blair is on all lips, his name is hissed out in
every speech, obsessively loathed just as Mrs Thatcher used to be at Labour
conferences long ago.

It's a shame the Labour party is not here to glory at what it has done to the
Tories. It is Tony Blair's cunning strategy (and Gordon Brown's prudence and
David Blunkett's toughness on crime) that has reduced this once unassailable
party to a puddle of uncertainty, punctuated with tribal war cries.

When Liam Fox tried to emulate that famous killer-riposte with a resounding,
"Tony Blair, you are not Margaret Thatcher!", it fell flat. Not because he is
Maggie, but because he does bestride the political horizon as she did. Like her,
he has been blessed in his opposition. Like her, he is not popular: she was
always far more hated than loved; more voted against than for. But like her, he
has the golden winning ticket - people still regard him as the most competent to
govern. Again, like her he is not immortal or indefinitely secure in his post
and his greatest error may trip him up yet. But sitting here in the Bournemouth
conference hall is a salutary reminder of how completely Labour dominates the
political scene.

How did Labour do it? They did things only a few Tories gingerly start to
perceive. When Labour was dominated by a rabble of Bennite unelectables, it had
to rid itself of those supporters and face down its own conference, not pander
to it. Read Giles Radice's just-published Diaries 1980-2001 for an excellent
day-by-day account of what it took. Tories should read it to learn how ruthless
the long road back from wilderness to centre ground must be. Labour waverers
should read it to remind themselves of what New Labour forged, why it still
triumphs - and how easily it might slide back to factionalism and fantasy
politics.

Michael Howard is deluged with advice from back-seat drivers. Turn right! Turn
left! Take the "common sense" road, or head down into "core vote" valley. They
are more lost than Labour was, since Labour had only one road to travel, with no
threat on the left, while the Tories' vulnerable seats are attacked on both
flanks. Should Howard head off Ukip as the right urge, or turn to face what
wiser heads warn is by far the greater Lib Dem threat? He can't do both at once,
yet much zig-zagging is going on here.

In the end, Howard ploughed firmly to the right, while promising new honesty to
heal the distrust caused by Blair. But as he drove his party further Eurosceptic
than ever before, his promise to pull out of some EU treaties is as dishonest as
it is impossible to deliver. People might spot a certain dishonesty, too, in his
lachrymose gratitude to Britain for saving him from the gas chambers in the same
breath as his pledge to pull out of the 1951 UN Refugee Convention.

Otherwise, it was a speech that prided itself on the modesty of its promises.
His five key points were good Tory stuff - school discipline, clean hospitals,
more police, lower taxes, and less immigration - things of genuine popular
concern. So why doesn't it fly? One of the sensibles in the shadow cabinet told
me they still had to earn the right to be trusted before people would absorb
these good old Tory themes. Only once firmly back in the land of ordinary people
will voters warm to them again on law and order, taxes and immigration. Labour
did not claw its way back by harping on about poverty, but by getting serious on
crime and spending.

So what would it take for the Tories to prove themselves back in the human race?
First, a heartfelt embrace of the welfare state forever, no more yearning for
new ways to subsidise private medicine or schools - both errors they made again
yesterday. A convincing Tory cabinet would themselves use state schools and the
NHS like ordinary people: they forget that under 10% use the private sector and
that half the population earns less than £22,000 for a full week's work. And
they need some at least plausible plan for helping the poorest 20%. To be be
lieved on these things, they need to pledge no tax cuts, just as Labour pledged
no tax rises. They might even revisit Edward Heath's old phrase and promise
action on "the unacceptable face of capitalism", the unwarranted fat-cat pay in
the City.

But why would anyone vote for "a spineless photocopy" of Labour, as young Tim
Collins put it in his very old-Tory rant? Because all governments make errors
and expire: Labour already shows signs of ageing. Because however much the
Tories transform themselves into New Conservatives, everyone will always know
they are the toughest on crime, immigration and tax.

To all those on the left who think Tony Blair is a Tory, I wish you had been
here to see the real thing. Note that Michael Howard made no mention whatever of
poverty. Compare that to Labour's child-poverty pledge. He said nothing on
childcare, nothing to woo back women voters. The whole array of policies on
offer from the platform is strangely thin, with the feel of ideology devised in
Central Office, lacking the substantial hard work Labour did to prepare for
power. Labour is open to attack on various faltering policies, but the Tories do
anecdotes, not killer research.

But when this party is eventually re-elected - and they will be back when they
have done some of the above - it will show how far Labour has pushed the centre
ground leftwards since Mrs Thatcher's day. Something else Labour's left might
learn here: Blair's snatching of "choice" really has dished the Tories' best
line. Conservatives' "choice" is money taken out of public funds for the
better-off to spend elsewhere: it only highlights Labour determination to make
services more responsive to everyone within the welfare state. The "choice" coup
is just another example of how the Tories did not jump down into these depths
all by themselves: they were also pushed by Labour, which still holds them down
there.

Ahead is a long climb back out, but few Tories seem to know what a ladder looks
like. Bringing back John Redwood to see off Ukip was just more digging. His
bellowed anti-Europe diatribes breathe the monomania that still sets the
conference afire. What else gets them whooping? Hunting, speed cameras,
inheritance tax and wind farms. At a law-and-order fringe the Tory heartland
voices that rose to rant were distinctly peculiar, a bit swivel-eyed as they
raged that prisons are like hotels and yobs are mollycoddled by social workers.

Those are the people the Tories now have to shock to the marrow. Despite
well-trained, sane-looking young candidates on show, much of the rabble roused
here still looks as untypical of Middle England as the air-punching Trots of
Labour's bad old days. Labour's hall these days is full of normal-looking types,
but the Tory fightback to normality has barely begun.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 6, 2004

Leading Article: Michael Howard: Mining europhobia

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 637 words


Michael Howard yesterday gave Conservatives a clear reminder of why they were
right to get rid of Iain Duncan Smith as their leader. Mr Duncan Smith's nasty
and ill-judged party conference speech in Blackpool a year ago was another
reminder of how difficult it has been for successive Tory leaders, from John
Major onwards, to find an effective rhetorical alternative to Tony Blair. Mr
Howard had clearly given a lot of thought to that problem. His answer was an
intelligent one: to avoid grandiloquence, to adopt a more explicatory tone, to
make his story more personal (resulting in some particularly effective passages)
and, above all, to offer himself as an alternative kind of politician, a man
with his feet on the ground not his head in the clouds, as Lord Saatchi put it
yesterday.

As far as it goes, this is an attractive strategy. We badly need a more truthful
and accountable form of politics. But Mr Howard also gave his party a reminder
of why he has not solved many of their more basic problems. An opposition party
that is in danger of losing a third successive election needs to fire up its
supporters, not to dampen them down; so, while Mr Howard can be commended for
not opting for negative attacks, he can also be criticised for not giving his
party clear lines on which to campaign against Labour and the Liberal Democrats,
who were barely mentioned in the speech.

It was also bad luck for Mr Howard that the evangelical Blair style against
which his speech was so self-consciously constructed was also rather
conspicuously abandoned by the prime minister in Brighton; Mr Howard, in other
words, may be attacking a diminishing target. But the biggest problem was simply
this: Mr Howard is an old-style politician to his finger-tips. For this most
barristerial of all politicians to pose as an "anti-politician" is inherently
implausible.

The chief criticism of his speech was not its style but its substance. The list
of subjects which the Tory leader failed to address was a long one. It included
the economy and the business agenda - an almost incredible omission by a Tory
leader in the run-up to an election - the environment, constitutional reform
(Europe inevitably excepted), and the great traditional Tory rallying-cry of
individual freedom. In the video shown to delegates before Mr Howard's entrance,
freedom was a central theme (to the stirring accompaniment of Elgar's Nimrod);
in his speech, he had almost nothing to say about it. And he bottled out of
saying that the imperative to obey the law extends to the law on hunting with
dogs.

The speech was stronger on cliches than on firm pledges. The Tory leader tried
to give the impression that a Howard government would spring instantly into life
with an all-action agenda, but the commitments were few and general. Mr Howard
said almost nothing of substance on health, education and pensions, beyond
people being entitled to choice. The section on tax was deliberately opaque. The
most settled prospectus was his old Home Office specialities of crime and
immigration.

The most striking and most carefully constructed part was on Europe. Here the
pledges suddenly got more specific - a referendum on the EU constitution by
September 2005, withdrawal from the social chapter, from the common fisheries
policy and from EU overseas aid programmes. The delegates responded fervently -
a sign of the Tory party's undiminished grassroots Europhobia. The big question
in the conference corridors remains whether such pledges are enough to blunt the
challenge of the UK Independence party. Mr Howard seems to have struck a dirty
deal with John Redwood to persuade the businessman Paul Sykes to stop
bankrolling Ukip. From a man who says he wants to give it to us straight, this
seems very much like old politics as usual.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 6, 2004

Leading Article: Wales: I ble'r aeth Cymru?

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 355 words


For many years scholars have argued over the possible site of Atlantis, the
fabled lost world first mentioned by Plato in the fourth century BC. At last,
the controversy is at an end. The true site has been stumbled upon by the EU's
statistical office, Eurostat: Atlantis once occupied the land known as Wales,
the proud Celtic nation which disappeared into the Irish Sea in AD2004.

By inadvertently publishing a map of Europe that omitted Wales, on the cover of
an otherwise unexceptional compilation of EU statistics (280pp, euros 50),
Eurostat has highlighted the uncanny similarities between the myth of Atlantis
and the reality of Wales. Plato, in his Critias Dialogue, described Atlantis as
blessed by "mountains celebrated for their number and size and beauty" - a clear
evocation of the grandeur of Snowdonia. According to Plato, these mountains had
"many wealthy villages of country folk, and rivers, and lakes, and meadows
supplying food enough for every animal, wild or tame, and much wood of various
sorts" - surely a description of Conwy and Gwynedd. Meanwhile, Plato's writing
of "the largest of the harbours" being full of "a multitudinous sound of human
voices, and din and clatter of all sorts night and day" is obviously a tribute
to Cardiff's vibrant bars and clubs, while "the great treasures derived from
mines" is a reference to the coal once plentiful in the valleys of Glamorgan.

True, there are few signs of the great number of elephants, as mentioned by
Plato, or that the Welsh countryside was formed by the love-making of Poseidon
rather than by glaciers. But the parallels are hard to ignore, especially the
"roofs formed out of the native rock," acknowledging the excellence of Welsh
slate.

Like Atlantis, by disappearing from the map Wales has found itself at the centre
of things. Political parties have jumped on the issue, with Eurosceptics at Ukip
crowing that Wales is lucky to be out of the EU, while nationalists at Plaid
Cymru say this would not happen if Wales had independence. Good news, then, that
Wales is still with us, whatever the maps of Eurostat might suggest.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 6, 2004

Howard puts Europe at top of his agenda

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words


Michael Howard yesterday ratcheted up the Conservative campaign against European
integration when he promised to set an early date for a referendum on the EU
constitution on the first day of his premiership - and to "go further" in
pulling back powers from Brussels.

On the day that the UK Independence party, his rival for Eurosceptic votes, saw
its main financial backer return to the Tory fold, Mr Howard made no attempt to
disguise his determination to thwart Ukip's boast that it is poised to "kill"
the Tories. "Come and join us," he told defectors.

Promoting his "pick and mix" policy for allowing EU member states to integrate
or not, as they wish, Mr Howard said yesterday that rapidly saying no to a
written constitution and later to the euro would not be enough.

"It's time we went further" by repatriating the social chapter, the EU fishing
policy and other powers, he said.

Pro-Europeans and unions expressed dismay at what they regard as pandering to
the Ukip menace, despite the internal Ukip bickering triggered by millionaire
Paul Sykes's move back to the Tories. It saw Robert Kilroy-Silk MEP, Ukip's new
star, being told to become "a team player" by his leader, Roger Knapman.

The Conservative leader used his first keynote conference speech to offer a
package of tough and immediate steps to address voters' concerns on crime,
drugs, dirty hospitals, immigration control and lower taxes in ways he hopes
will lower public cynicism towards politics.

To further demonstrate that the Tories are back in touch with the domestic
concerns of the electorate, Mr Howard eschewed visionary rhetoric or goals in
favour of 10 notably down-to-earth words he wants his canvassers to offer
disaffected Labour voters when the expected May 2005 election is called.

They are: "School discipline, more police, cleaner hospitals, lower taxes,
controlled immigration," and will be underpinned by the recurring word in Mr
Howard's speech of abject apology for the failings of the political class -
"accountability."

In a series of policy promises which a Howard cabinet will be expected to
deliver in days, weeks and months of taking office - or face the sack - Mr
Howard told conference: "On day one, we will set the date for the referendum on
the constitution.

"So if the election is next May, we will hold that referendum before we meet
again next October. Europe isn't working properly today and the constitution
will only make matters worse."

The "day one" emphasis reflects the Howard team's belief that "Tony Blair has
been all talk" and windy rhetoric, and that voters now want action. To show what
they can do in the first month of power the Tories will set out a full
"timetable for action" when their conference closes tomorrow.

Mr Howard's 48-minute speech reflected both his low-key style and a conscious
desire not to make sustained personalised attacks on Tony Blair or Charles
Kennedy, though Mr Blair was again accused on "not telling the truth" over the
Iraq war and of betrayal over 66 "stealth tax" rises.

"Everyone's been let down by Labour on tax," he said. "If Labour were to win
again, we'd have Blair's third term tax rises."

But he avoided specific tax promises until after the Tories have seen their own
savings plans and Gordon Brown's next budget.

"When I can, I will cut taxes . . . taxes I want to make fairer, simpler, lower.
But I'm not like Tony Blair. I'm not going to make promises I can't keep . . .
we must be honest with the British people. It's that word again,
accountability," Mr Howard said.

Privately, Mr Howard is frustrated that his key messages are not getting
through, including more choice in schools and healthcare, more school expulsions
and police on the beat and, within his first month, an annual limit on
immigration.

Mr Howard shares the view of young allies like David Cameron that "the biggest
problem in British politics today is cynicism, apathy and disillusion".

Labour was quick to contrast yesterday's words with the former Tory home
secretary's record in reducing police numbers, asylum chaos and rises in some
categories of crime.

Conservatives in Bournemouth, pages 12-13

Polly Toynbee, page 24

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

HOWARD: BACK TO BASICS;
 TORY LEADER LURCHES TO RIGHT TO BLUNT UKIP THREAT

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR Michael Howard promised to wrest control
of Britain back from Brussels' and set out a party timetable of reform, should
he win the election Tom Pilston

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 732 words


MICHAEL HOWARD tried yesterday to woo back disaffected Tory voters by
highlighting Europe, immigration, crime and tax as he made clear he would fight
the general election on a right-wing agenda.

Although his speech to the Conservative Party conference in Bournemouth raised
the spirits of party activists, modernisers accused him of preaching to the Tory
"core vote" rather than reaching out to the "middle ground" where they said the
election would be decided.

Mr Howard hardened his rhetoric on Europe as he sought to stem a haemorrhage of
support to the UK Independence Party, which backs withdrawal from the European
Union and which pushed the Tories into a humiliating fourth place in last week's
Hartlepool by-election. He said that only a Tory government would repatriate
powers from Brussels by withdrawing from the social chapter of workers' rights
and the common fisheries policy. On their first day in power, the Tories would
set a date for an early referendum on the EU constitution. In a direct plea to
UKIP supporters, Mr Howard said: "It's time to bring powers back to Britain.
That's what most people want. But only a Conservative government can deliver it.
So my message is simple: if you want to bring powers back from Brussels to
Britain, whatever party you're from, come and join us."

The Tories, who are desperately worried that UKIP will deprive them of victory
in some seats at the general election, received a fillip yesterday when Paul
Sykes, the millionaire businessman and UKIP's main financial backer, withdrew
his support because UKIP intends to field candidates in every seat - including
those fought by Eurosceptic Tories.

Tory aides dismissed Labour claims that the speech amounted to a "lurch to the
right", insisting that Mr Howard had not pandered to right wingers by changing
his party's policies. But Tory modernisers expressed concern that Mr Howard
appeared to abandon the socially liberal agenda that he embraced when he became
party leader last November. At the time, he delighted Tory campaigners for
racial and sexual equality by declaring that the Tories should be a party for
"all Britain and all Britons".

After failing to make progress in the opinion polls, modernisers believe Mr
Howard is gambling on a higher turnout among Tory than Labour supporters, many
of whom are disenchanted with

Tony Blair over Iraq. But one Tory left-winger said: "It's not a strategy for
winning the election. We have got to reach out beyond the core vote to win."
Tory strategists dismissed the charge, saying Mr Howard highlighted health and
education and measures to help millions of "hard-working families". They
insisted that crime, immigration and tax were not only issues of concern for
Tory supporters.

Mr Howard sought to project a softer image of himself to the voters. Some
activists wept as he described how his grandmother was killed in a Nazi
concentration camp and declared that he wanted to give "a tiny bit back" to
Britain because he owed "everything I am" to this country. Some MPs said the
speech was the best to a Tory conference by the party leader for many years.

Promising to take the gloves off in the fight against crime, Mr Howard said the
Tories would recruit an extra 5,000 police officers a year, cut paperwork for
the police and scrap the scheme under which prisoners win early release from
jail.

Pledging a "firm but fair" policy on immigration, the Tory leader said he would
pull Britain out of the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention and in his first
month as prime minister would set out plans to impose an annual limit on the
number of people coming to Britain.

While refusing to pledge specific tax cuts, he hinted strongly that they would
be announced before the election. By cutting waste, the Tories would "put us
back on the path to lower taxes". He added: "So be in no doubt. When I can, I
will cut taxes." Mr Howard suggested the Tories would target the poorest people,
who "shoulder the highest burden", and middle- income earners such as teachers,
doctors and police officers who had been sucked into the 40p in the pound top
rate of income tax by Labour. Dismissing criticism that cutting inheritance tax
would help the rich, he said people who had bought their council houses were now
being caught by it.

Leading article, page 32;

Michael Brown, Johann Hari, page 33

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

CONSERVATIVE IN BOURNMOUTH: BIGGEST UKIP DONOR SYKES URGES SCEPTICS TO VOTE FOR
TORIES;
 CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR The millionaire Paul Sykes has
withdrawn his financial support from UKIP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 716 words


TORY HOPES of an electoral deal with the UK Independence Party were revived last
night after UKIP's main financial backer, Paul Sykes, withdrew support and urged
Eurosceptics to vote Conservative at the next election.

The move prompted fury within the party, with its leader, Roger Knapman, warning
the UKIP MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk - whose outspoken comments are believed to have
driven Mr Sykes away - to "toe the line". Mr Knapman said the party could not
"forever tolerate" off-message members and that the former television presenter
should become a "team player". Senior figures in the party said that Mr Sykes's
decision to pull out would make the leadership think again about the decision at
its weekend conference in Bristol to reject electoral pacts with Eurosceptic
Tory MPs - in which they would promise not to stand against them in the
election.

But pro-European Tory MPs warned last night that they would not accept more
Eurosceptic policies as the price for a deal with Mr Sykes.

Ian Taylor, a pro-European former minister, expressed alarm, saying: "Tory Party
policy is to stay in the European Union and we are not going to leave. Michael
Howard has made that clear. As a result of this, policies are now coming forward
which are not deliverable.

"As they are undeliverable, the first Europe minister under a Howard government
would have to be sacked because he has said they would only stay in place if
they performed. The sooner we come to talk more realistically about how to
handle Europe the better it will be."

Mr Sykes withdrew his financial support from UKIP after Mr Kilroy-Silk told the
UKIP conference that he wanted to "kill" the Tory Party. Yesterday, Mr Sykes had
a pre-arranged lunch at a London restaurant with the former television chat show
host and MEP for the East Midlands, a personal friend.

Afterwards Mr Sykes said: "I am going to urge people to vote for the
Conservatives because there is no other party likely to form a government that
has come out saying we are going to repatriate our laws and we are against the
euro forever." He said that he had never been a member of UKIP, despite the huge
amounts of money he gave to the party.

Mr Sykes, thought to be Yorkshire's fourth richest man, has a personal fortune
reputed to be pounds 495m. He lives in Harrogate, but grew up on a rough council
estate in Barnsley. He left school without qualifications and his first job was
"grafting" as a tyre fitter. He made his first fortune breaking up old buses and
exporting them to Hong Kong but struck it rich as a property developer when he
joined a consortium that built Meadowhall, an out-of-town shopping centre, on
the site of a former steel works, by the M1 on the outskirts of Sheffield. He
sold an internet company, Planet Online, for pounds 85m in 1998.

Mr Sykes stood as a Conservative candidate in Barnsley Central, but fell out
with the Tory Party when Margaret Thatcher, pressured by John Major and Kenneth
Clarke, led Britain into the exchange rate mechanism. He left and rejoined the
Tory party twice before backinng the late James Goldsmith's anti-euro Referendum
Party which fielded candidates against Tory MPs.

He poured pounds 1.4m into UKIP to fight the 2001 and European elections and was
apparently poised to bankroll the party for half of its budget for the next
election. He withdrew the funding after private talks with John Redwood, the
Eurosceptic former cabinet minister, who was recently brought back onto the
front bench by the Tory leader, Michael Howard.

Mr Redwood yesterday denied he had engaged in negotiations with Mr Sykes, but he
confirmed he had helped to secure his support after reassurances about the
Conservative policy on Europe.

The party's education spokesman, Tim Collins told the conference that UKIP would
not win a seat at the general election. Urging UKIP voters to "come home" to the
Conservatives, he said: "Don't just hope for a Eurosceptic government, vote for
one."

The intervention by Mr Sykes gave the Conservatives a desperately needed boost
to their conference week. Some MPs were relieved at the prospect that they may
not face a challenge from UKIP, if a deal can be reached. However, UKIP said Mr
Sykes's funding would be replaced by its other backers.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: PRO-EUROPEANS FEAR DEAL WITH UKIP AFTER DEFECTION
OF SYKES

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR The millionaire Paul Sykes has
withdrawn his financial support from UKIP

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 563 words


TORY HOPES of an electoral deal with the UK Independence Party were revived last
night after UKIP's main financial backer, Paul Sykes, withdrew support and urged
Eurosceptics to vote Conservative at the next election.

However, pro-European Tory MPs warned last night that they would not accept more
Eurosceptic policies as the price for a deal with Mr Sykes.

Ian Taylor, a pro-European former minister, said: "Tory Party policy is to stay
in the European Union. Michael Howard has made that clear. Policies are now
coming forward which are not deliverable.

"As they are undeliverable, the first Europe minister under a Howard government
would have to be sacked because he has said they would only stay in place if
they performed. The sooner we come to talk more realistically about how to
handle Europe the better it will be."

Yesterday, Mr Sykes had a pre-arranged lunch at a London restaurant with Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former television chat show host and MEP for the East Midlands,
a personal friend.

Afterwards Mr Sykes said: "I am going to urge people to vote for the
Conservatives because there is no other party likely to form a government that
has come out saying we are going to repatriate our laws and we are against the
euro forever."

He said he had never been a member of UKIP, despite his huge donations to the
party.

Mr Sykes, thought to be Yorkshire's fourth richest man, has a personal fortune
reputed to be pounds 495m. He lives in Harrogate, but grew up on a council
estate in Barnsley. He left school without qualifications and made his first
fortune breaking up old buses and exporting them to Hong Kong but struck it rich
as a property developer when he joined a consortium that built Meadowhall, an
out-of-town shopping centre, on the site of a former steel works, by the M1 on
the outskirts of Sheffield. He sold an internet company, Planet Online, for
pounds 85m in 1998.

Mr Sykes stood as a Conservative candidate in Barnsley Central, but fell out
with the Tory Party when Margaret Thatcher, pressured by John Major and Kenneth
Clarke, led Britain into the exchange rate mechanism. He left and rejoined the
Tory party twice before backing the late James Goldsmith's anti-euro Referendum
Party, which fielded candidates against Tory MPs.

He poured pounds 1.4m into UKIP to fight the 2001 and European elections and was
apparently poised to bankroll the party for half of its budget for the next
election. He withdrew the funding after private talks with John Redwood, the
Eurosceptic former cabinet minister, who was recently brought back onto the
front bench by the Tory leader, Michael Howard.

Mr Redwood denied he had engaged in negotiations with Mr Sykes, but he confirmed
he had helped to secure his support after reassurances about the Conservative
policy on Europe.

The Tory education spokesman, Tim Collins, told the conference UKIP would not
win a seat at the general election. Urging UKIP voters to "come home" to the
Tories, he said: "Don't just hope for a Euroscep- tic government, vote for one."

The intervention by Mr Sykes gave the Conservatives a desperately needed boost
to their conference week. Some MPs were relieved at the prospect that they may
not face a challenge from UKIP, if a deal can be reached. However, UKIP said Mr
Sykes's funding would be replaced by its other backers.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: PARTY CHIEF TELLS KILROY-SILK TO TOE THE LINE

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN Robert Kilroy-Silk: Urged to become a team player'

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words


THE LEADER of the UK Independence Party has warned the outspoken MEP Robert
Kilroy-Silk to "toe the party line" or face disciplinary action.

Roger Knapman said that the party could not "forever tolerate" off- message
members. He urged the former television presenter - whose outspoken comments are
believed to have driven away its key donor, Paul Sykes - to become more of a
"team player" or face disciplinary action.

His comments followed Mr Kilroy-Silk's claims at the party's weekend conference
that Mr Knapman had agreed to let him take over as leader of UKIP. Mr Knapman
maintained yesterday that there had "never, never ever" existed any such deal.

"It is one thing to be ambitious. He must start to think about being a team
player," he told BBC Radio 4. "I think Robert is beginning to understand that
politics is a bit more serious a business than he might have been engaged in for
a while."

He added: "But he must understand that we can't forever tolerate people who
cannot toe the party line. We have disciplinary procedures - it is not a
question of that as yet.

"He wants to be party leader apparently. I think he will soon grasp the
understanding that there is no question of that happening, but if he waits for
two years and has a good record in the eyes of the party membership as a loyal
member of the team, then he stands a chance of being made leader." Mr
Kilroy-Silk also declared that he wanted to "kill off" the Conservatives,
casting doubt over the party's strategy of not standing against incumbent MPs
with Eurosceptic credentials.

But Nigel Farage, leader of the UKIP group of MEPs, said: "In my opinion we
should not be fighting against sitting Tory and Labour MPs who are prepared to
say the right things."

Yesterday Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "We can't have the party policy decided by the
man with the biggest chequebook."

Alan Bown, a businessman who has already given UKIP pounds 500,000, said he
would step in to replace Mr Sykes's financial support.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              186 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

LEADER: TO BE EFFECTIVE IN OPPOSITION, MR HOWARD NEEDS BIGGER AND MORE POSITIVE
IDEAS

SECTION: Final Edition; LEADER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 685 words


HAVE BIG political ideas become dangerous? We only ask because this has been the
conference season in which the leaders of Britain's two biggest parties dropped
all claim to offer anything like inspiration and vision and set about lowering
expectations instead.

First Tony Blair, in a low-key conversational style, presented a blueprint of
small specifics for the third term he said he was convinced Labour would win.
Yesterday Michael Howard chipped in a methodical, workmanlike way at a set of
small-print priorities that seemed to come straight from the standard
focus-group list of New Labour failings. Even trust - easily Mr Blair's greatest
liability after Iraq - was apparently too big, too abstract a concept to be
peddled too assiduously in Mr Howard's first conference speech as Tory leader.
He adopted the safer, clumsier, more technocratic "accountability" as his
leitmotif instead.

This was not a bad speech. It was well organised, well delivered in a
barrister's way, and it pressed all the correct buttons for Tory activists in
need of convincing that their new leader was on the right track. Where Mr Blair
had given his party faithful six simple words: "Choice is not a Tory word", Mr
Howard offered 10: "School discipline; more police; cleaner hospitals; lower
taxes; controlled immigration." But these are not great aspirations.

Indeed, in many respects Mr Howard's ambitions seemed more timid and more skewed
towards his party's right wing than the speech in which he made his leadership
bid almost one year ago. Then, he promised to lead from the centre and reach out
to all parts of society. He would not, he said, head a party of "little
Englanders". That was a plausible national leader speaking. The man we heard
yesterday was a Tory all too conscious of the pressure bearing down from the
Shires and the UK Independence Party snapping at his heels.

Mr Howard was about as unfriendly to the European Union as it was possible to
be, short of calling for withdrawal. He pledged an early referendum on the EU
constitution, along with a new approach to Brussels that would effectively
facilitate a "two-speed" Europe (with Britain in the crawler lane). On
immigration, he undertook - predictably - to introduce annual quotas and -
disgracefully - to pull out of the UN convention on refugees.

Mr Howard's early, and probably stage-managed reward, was the announcement by a
big UKIP donor, Paul Sykes, that he would not fund the party's efforts in a
general election because he did not like its threat to "kill" the Tory party.
Whether the loss of one donor will diminish the threat from UKIP, however, is
unlikely.

More striking even than Mr Howard's nods to the right was the peevishly negative
tone of many of his proposals and the poverty of his ambitions. He would scrap
Labour policies, government jobs and paperwork aplenty, from his first day in
office. He favoured tax cuts, but made no real promises; he would cut taxes only
"when I can". There was no return to the vouchers for school places and medical
provision broached so chaotically earlier this year. The lack of specifics was
disappointing.

True, there was method in this modesty. Mr Howard was well aware that he could
not with one breath impugn Mr Blair's credibility and offer promises with the
next that a Tory government would not be able to keep. Such an approach has
merit. It was refreshing to hear Mr Howard admit that all politicians had made
promises they could not keep and that the Tory tax rises of 1992 had been one
such broken promise. He also made a more convincing defence of his stance on
Iraq than Mr Blair had done, while insisting that Mr Blair had not been
"truthful" and "did not behave as a British prime minister should". This was
economical and effective.

No amount of neat phrasing, however, could make this into a speech of a prime
minister in waiting. It was a speech of a leader whose party is on the back
foot, even in Opposition; a leader confined to small ideas, because the party in
its current, fragile, state cannot unite around any greater vision.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

I'VE BEEN VILIFIED FOR SAYING IT, BUT I HOLD TO MY VIEW THAT THE TORY PARTY IS
DYING;
 THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY CONFERENCE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1205 words


Yesterday the gloom that surrounded the Tories at the beginning of their
conference lifted - thanks to Michael Howard's speech to the troops in
Bournemouth. The incessant plotting that devoured Iain Duncan Smith at last
year's conference was absent. Temporarily at least, the latest dire news from
the opinion pollsters was put to one side for Mr Howard's big day. The fact that
the multimillionaire Paul Sykes was not about to bankroll UKIP had also put the
delegates in a good mood.

Following my article earlier in the week, one of Mr Howard's speech- writers, Ed
Vaizey, and the chairman of the Conservative Research Department, George
Bridges, have been doing their best to make sure that I get on message. "When
are you going to write something good about us," shrieked one elderly lady who
handbagged me after reading Monday's paper.

Well, Mr Howard made an excellent speech which pressed all the right buttons -
at least for his audience. There were crowd pleasing lines for the party
faithful on immigration and asylum. The references to Europe sought to pull back
votes from UKIP with specific commitments to withdraw from the Social Chapter
and from the common fisheries policy. These are substantial announcements that
still beg the question, however, "what happens if there is no agreement with
other European countries?" Labour will argue - as will UKIP - that total
withdrawal would surely be the only option.

But this was nevertheless a speech that was devoid of rant. The tone was
softened and much more in tune with the mood of Mr Howard's early speeches when
he became party leader last November. So to those who think I was deliberately
kicking the party in the teeth, I acknowledge that I can certainly imagine Mr
Howard as prime minister. He looks like a national leader and his experience,
competence and ability to do the job, unlike his predecessor, is not - and never
has - been in doubt.

But even after this speech I still have my doubts about whether this adds up to
an over-arching strategy. Until yesterday it has been the more strident tone of
the past four months that has been in the ascendant. Rightly, Mr Howard made
much of the lack of trust in Tony Blair. But do the voters trust him any more
than Mr Blair?

I still do not know who the real Michael Howard is. Is he the one we had a
decade ago when he made the infamous "prison works" speech, which was reinforced
when he made similarly tough speeches on crime and political correctness during
the recent summer recess? Or is he the one we glimpsed for the first few months
of his leadership and which reappeared again yesterday. Is it Howard hard or
Howard lite? Loud or soft? I still don't know.

The timing of the speech was a departure from tradition. At previous conferences
the leader's speech was always the final crowning glory for the troops. The
expectation was that Labour might have held last week's by-election in
Hartlepool tomorrow - the last day of the conference. The result would have
overshadowed Mr Howard's speech, so a decision was taken to avoid this potential
nightmare by bringing the speech forward. As things have worked out, the week is
improving for the Tories as is the Bournemouth weather. The sun is shining again
on Mr Howard - and he is still due to speak again tomorrow before the conference
closes.

Exactly seven months from today, on Friday 6 May, there will be a big bang in
British politics - if Michael Howard becomes Prime Minister. The Queen will need
to be roused from her bed early to ask him to form an administration, because
"on day one" the new occupant of No 10 will tell police officers that
form-filling will stop. "On day one" headteachers will be given control over
their classrooms and be given control over expulsions. "On day one" Civil
Service recruitment will be frozen. "On day one" the date for the referendum on
the European constitution will be set. Within the first week, the new health and
education ministers will begin scrapping Whitehall targets for health and
hospitals. The new Foreign Secretary will be signalling Britain's intention to
withdraw from the UN refugee convention.

The "timetable for action" will impinge least, however, on the new Chancellor,
Oliver Letwin, who seems to have unlimited time to find ways to cut taxes. "When
I can, I will cut taxes," said Mr Howard on his behalf. Mr Howard did much
metaphorical throat clearing before setting out his vision of a Tory Britain.
There was a huge opening section about politicians' broken promises and a mea
culpa about the failure of the Tory promise, in government, to cut taxes year on
year after the 1992 general election. This was a speech heavy, at the beginning,
with promises not to make promises.

There are rumours of tensions among senior Tories about the inability to make
specific commitments on tax and the issue still hangs, unresolved, in the air.
Stamp duty, council tax, inheritance tax and the threshold for paying top-rate
tax have been singled out for possible attention. Appetites have been whetted
and vague hints been dropped. If the intention is to save up further specific
announcements until the publication of the election manifesto then Mr Letwin
runs the risk of Gordon Brown doing to him what he did to Peter Lilley in the
1997 general election campaign. When Mr Lilley was presenting the Tories'
"pension plus" policy it was immediately trashed by Mr Brown as "Tories to
privatise your pension". It was a meaningless phrase but it somehow struck a
chord with voters and Mr Lilley was bogged down in a complicated row that lost
more votes.

Mr Howard's immediate task, however, was to staunch the potential flow of votes
from the Tories to UKIP. In this he has probably succeeded - for the time being.
Credit for this achievement appears to be going to John Redwood who has secured
the return of Mr Sykes to the Tory fold. But Mr Howard may have to pay a high
price for Mr Redwood's renewed prominence at the heart of the Tory team. I
suspect that the TV clip of Mr Redwood's "I'm back" announcement at the start of
his own conference debut will be replayed mercilessly by Labour in forthcoming
party political broadcasts and posters.

Mr Howard tried to emulate the 1997 Labour pledge card. This time it is "10
words to remember: school discipline, more police, cleaner hospitals, lower
taxes, controlled immigration". At least this is a message the average party
worker and canvasser can remember although it reads a bit like a supermarket
shopping list.

In the end, however, will anything be changed by next week, next month or next
May? Whether this speech has altered the voters' perceptions of Mr Howard and
the Tory party will only be known when we see the next set of polls. I still
fear that the more likely course of events on "day one" will be a grisly
telephone call to Tony Blair from above the Starbucks coffee shop in Victoria
Street conceding defeat. And the sad fact remains that one good speech, one
autumn morning, does not alter any of the facts to which I have previously drawn
attention about the hopeless state of the party in many of the constituencies
that are without Tory MPs.

mrbrown@pimlico.freeserve.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              188 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

WEEK OF THE LIVING DEAD (AKA THE TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH): NEW BIG BACKER FOR UKIP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


A NEW donor stepped in last night to back Ukip after millionaire Paul Sykes
pulled out.

Businessman Alan Bown, who has already given pounds 500,000, said he would make
good "any shortfall".

Mr Bown, of Kent, said: "I've a considerable property portfolio and I'm happy to
back whatever it takes."

It wiped smiles from Tory faces after Mr Sykes - who has given pounds 1.4million
- said Ukip had "blown it" when Robert Kilroy-Silk said he wanted to lead it and
"kill" the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              189 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

WEEK OF THE LIVING DEAD (AKA THE TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH): ..THERE IS SOMETHING OF
THE RIGHT ABOUT HIM;
 HOWARD LURCHES TORIES TO THE EXTREME

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCARY: How he might look..; WIFE: Sandra Howard yesterday


MICHAEL Howard yesterday lurched to the right as he deserted moderate middle
class voters.

The Tory leader nailed the party to an extreme agenda on asylum and immigration,
Europe and vague promises on low taxes.

There were no pledges to invest in health and education, help struggling parents
with child care or ease the pressure on long term care for the elderly.

In his first party conference speech as leader, Mr Howard abandoned the centre
ground to Tony Blair, leaving Tory modernisers in despair.

He was immediately accused of caving in to extreme right-wingers in a
panic-stricken bid to stop voters deserting to the anti-Europe Ukip.

One moderate former frontbencher said: "This will be a disaster. He is pandering
to the right and the British people are not on the right."

Mr Howard told the party to remember 10 words for the election - school
discipline, more police, cleaner hospitals, lower taxes, controlled immigration.
He attacked Labour's record on trust and said the Tories' Timetable For Action
would set specific times and dates, adding: "There will be no wiggle room, no
place to hide."

Mr Howard peppered his speech with attacks on asylum seekers, immigrants and
Europe.

Tories would let parliament set an annual limit on immigrants.

"Immigration is chaotic and out of control," he said. "We cannot allow unlimited
immigration."

On Europe, he signalled the start of withdrawal, with a pledge to begin
"repatriating powers".

The Tories would hold a referendum to win a No vote on the EU constitution by
October.

Mr Howard pledged to build a new wave of prisons to lock up more criminals, end
early release and recruit 5,000 more police.

He said: "The first problem I'll get a grip on is crime. The gloves will come
off. A war on crime."

He promised to cut taxes, but made no specific pledge, saying only: "When I can,
I will."

He made no mention of cuts for the poorest, focusing instead on inheritance tax
which affects five to 10 per cent of the wealthiest.

Cabinet Office Minister Ruth Kelly said: "They are still the same old party, out
of touch."

Labour MP Martin Salter said: "The Tories under Howard are grubbing around in
the gutter, slugging it out with the BNP and Ukip to see who can sound more
right-wing and extreme."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              190 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

THE HISTORY MAN;
 PAUL ROUTLEDGE WATCHES AS MICHAEL HOWARD LOSES THE PLOT

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 986 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCARED: Howard fears UKIP; PAGE 6 DAILY MIRROR, Wednesday, October 6,
2004; SNORY PARTY: Asleep in Bournemouth


IT IS not often that your maiden speech as party leader is also your swan song.

But Michael Howard managed this political feat yesterday without turning a hair
- not that he has many to turn.

The Tory leader did not just lurch to the Right. He hurled himself into headlong
flight away from the middle ground where most voters live.

Dracula Howard sank his fangs into refugees, the European Union, unruly kids,
civil servants, human rights, public spending and rights in the workplace. Oh,
and fish.

The Conservatives are very big into fish.

And naturally, because they have yet to be dragged kicking and screaming into
the 20th century, the blue-rinse brigade at Bournemouth loved every word of it.

Everybody else will take off in the opposite direction as fast as their feet can
carry them.

The direction of the Conservative party is now clear.

Faced with a choice of social inclusion or pandering to the worst instincts of
old Toryism, Michael Howard unhesitatingly opted for what he knows and likes
best - the hard line.

It is a deeply unattractive manifesto.

On crime: "We will build more prisons." That harks back to his time as Home
Secretary when he claimed that "prison works". Result? Crime shot up.

On the way we live today, he is no less extreme. The Human Rights' Act, which
brought new safeguards to the British people, would be "reviewed" if he got into
power. "And if it cannot be reformed, we'll get rid of it." They applauded that.

In the schoolroom, he is no less strict. Headteachers will be free to expel any
pupil, presumably without the right of appeal that parents have today.

Pensioners will look askance at his plans for them. Howard claims he wants to
"honour our older generations, cherish their wisdom and care for their needs".

He would "take steps to restore the link between pensions and earnings."

Hang on a minute. This is the man who was a cabinet minister that broke the link
with earnings, deliberately pauperising old folk. And now he begs us to trust
him!

Howard didn't even mention the economy, except to say that "when I can, I will
cut taxes."

This was a wise move. The appalling Tory record on the economy, Black Wednesday
and all, is still not forgotten nor forgiven.

But it was on Europe that the Conservative leader really showed his true blue
colours.

He would say "No" to the new European constitution and "No" to the euro. He
would take Britain out of the EU social chapter, which protects jobs and gives
working people rights that the Tories hate.

And he would also pull out of the European fisheries policy, allowing our seas
to be literally fished to the death. If it's European, he loathes it.

Why? Because the Tories are running scared of the UK Independence Party, the
nutter extremists who pushed them into fourth place in the Hartlepool
by-election.

His fear of the party to his right came out most strongly on immigration.

Here is a man who paraded himself as a beneficiary of Britain's traditional
welcome to refugees - but wants to close the door on people like himself.

"I'm all right, Jack. Pull up the ladder!"

In the most emotional part of his speech, Michael Howard made much of his debt
to this country, reminding people that his grandmother was killed in a Nazi
concentration camp.

"If it hadn't been ... for Britain, I would have been one of them too."

So why deny to others in desperate need the freedom he gained in the dark days
of World War II?

In truth, that's what the Tories are really all about. Michael Howard
demonstrated beyond doubt yesterday that they have not changed.

They pay lip-service to the new world but they would turn the clock back if we
ever gave them the opportunity.

Thankfully, the voters have more sense. And even the party's high command
privately admits that a Michael Howard victory at the election is not on the
cards.

And that inevitable defeat will bring to an end Howard's short tenure as head of
his party. The leader himself virtually admitted this yesterday, speaking of a
Labour third term.

I know for a fact that Howard rewrote his speech to play down the likelihood of
Tony Blair's winning yet again, prefixing "If Labour wins" to the prospect of a
third term for the government.

Therein lies the rub. For all the bombast of the leader's speech nobody at the
Bournemouth conference with two brain cells - a select band - really believes
that it will play well on the doorstep.

It is too extreme - and the tragedy for the Tories is that they simply cannot
grasp this fact.

So does this mean that the Conservative Party is dead? Not yet. The Tories still
command the support of three voters out of 10, a respectable basis for
Opposition.

But their support is draining away. It is ageing. It is increasingly out of
kilter with the modern way of life.

None of that troubled Michael Howard. He did not bother to mention jobs or house
prices or transport or any of the concerns of ordinary people. This is a party
that has kissed goodbye to the voters.

As I write, at the next table a Tory councillor is loudly denouncing Theresa
May, who famously described hers as the "nasty party".

A defeat for her at Maidenhead would be "no bad thing" he brayed. And for good
measure he added: "They wipe their bottoms on the wall in Newcastle."

Theresa was right. They are the nasty party. And in their current predicament,
the nastiness only intensifies. They are like scorpions in a sack, biting
blindly and indiscriminately.

And that was Michael Howard yesterday.

He wants us to forget that he was the Tory who gave us the poll tax, who opposed
the national minimum wage. His own minister, Ann Widdecombe said there was
"something of the night about him".

Yesterday he opened up in the fake daylight of the conference arena.

The exposure will kill him.

p.routledge@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              191 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 6, 2004

FUNDING VOW JOY FOR KILROY

BYLINE: David Wooding

LENGTH: 132 words


A BUSINESSMAN last night stepped in to fill the gap in the UK Independence
Party's funds after its main donor cut off his cash supply.

Kent-based Alan Bown said he would "fund any shortfall necessary".

He added: "I'm not saying I can raise Pounds 1million overnight, but I have a
considerable property portfolio and I'm happy to back whatever it takes."

Mr Bown has already given UKIP Pounds 500,000.

Former telly chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk was blamed as property tycoon
Paul Sykes, 61, pulled his Pounds 1.4million donation to the anti-EU group
yesterday.

Mr Sykes is furious that UKIP will fight seats held by Tory Euro-sceptics, which
could let in EU-friendly Lib Dems.

Party insiders said Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, has risked his chance to become UKIP
leader.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              192 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 6, 2004

TYCOON'S CASH AXE HITS KILROY

BYLINE: David Wooding

LENGTH: 134 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk's bid to lead the UK Independence Party was in turmoil last
night after its biggest backer turned off the money supply.

The former telly chat show host was blamed as property tycoon Paul Sykes pulled
his Pounds 1.4million donation to the anti-EU group.

Mr Sykes, 61, is furious that UKIP will fight seats held by Tory Euro sceptics,
which could let in EU-friendly Lib Dems.

Last night there were moves to stop Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, becoming leader.

An insider said: "We had just built up a head of steam and now it's backfired."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said it was a mistake to fight every seat.

But Mr Kilroy-Silk said the party would find cash from other sources.

He added: "We can't have party policy decided by the man with the biggest cheque
book."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              193 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 6, 2004

FUNDING VOW JOY FOR KILROY

BYLINE: David Wooding

LENGTH: 172 words


A BUSINESSMAN last night stepped in to fill the gap in the UK Independence
Party's funds after its main donor cut off his cash supply.

Kent-based Alan Bown said he would "fund any shortfall necessary".

He added: "I'm not saying I can raise Pounds 1million overnight, but I have a
considerable property portfolio and I'm happy to back whatever it takes."

Mr Bown has already given UKIP Pounds 500,000.

Former TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk was blamed as property tycoon Paul Sykes, 61,
pulled his Pounds 1.4million-a-year donation to the anti-EU group yesterday.

Mr Sykes is furious that UKIP will fight seats held by Tory Euro-sceptics, which
could let in EU-friendly Lib Dems.

Party insiders said Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, has risked his chance to become UKIP
leader.

The former Labour MP is determined the party should fight every seat in the UK,
insisting enough cash would be found.

After Mr Sykes pulled out, he said: "We can't have the party policy decided by
the man with the biggest cheque book."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              194 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

'I want to make Britain a country that is the envy of the world'

BYLINE: Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 913 words


Michael Howard signalled a return to the core Conservative values of freedom and
security. Philip Webster reports

MICHAEL HOWARD stamped his personality and authority on the Conservative Party
yesterday by combining a hardline message on crime, immigration, tax and
discipline with a direct appeal to Eurosceptic voters to join him.

Five days after the Tories were pushed into fourth place by the UK Independence
Party in the Hartlepool by-election, Mr Howard told people in all parties that
only the Conservatives would bring powers back from Brussels.

The Tories would go further than saying "no" to the constitution and the euro,
aiming to take Britain out of the damaging social chapter and the Common
Fisheries Policy. He wooed potential UKIP voters with a pledge that a date for a
constitution referendum would be set on the first day of a Tory government and
be held by next October if the election were in May.

If he were elected, The Times understands, Mr Howard would seek a new
relationship with Europe in which those countries favouring integration would be
allowed to go ahead but those that wanted powers returned would be able to do
so. He believes that an election victory and a "no" vote in an early referendum
would give him a strong mandate to do so. But Labour claims that he would be
forced to leave the EU to achieve his aims.

He also promised that the new Human Rights Act, which had tipped the balance of
justice away from the victim to the troublemaker, would be scrapped if it could
not be reformed. He had been boosted before his speech when the Yorkshire
businessman Paul Sykes confirmed that he had made his last donation to the UKIP,
a serious blow to a party that made such big strides in the European elections.

In a calmly delivered, softly spoken, first conference speech as Tory leader Mr
Howard focused heavily on the core issues that he hopes will bring out the
Conservative vote next spring, pressing the buttons that usually spark acclaim
at Tory gatherings. It was a speech in which Mr Howard tried to tell his
audience inside and outside Bournemouth more about himself.

He spoke of replacing "cynicism with hope" and turning Britain into a country
that was the "envy of the world".

He was also trying to draw a sharp contrast in the public mind between himself
as a politician who can be trusted and Tony Blair, whom he again accused of not
telling the truth in the run-up to the Iraq war.

The result was an effective speech, lacking in high rhetorical flourishes,
offering little in policy terms to the party modernisers, but receiving warm
general backing because of the measured language in which the tough messages
were couched.

Ending with a deeply personal passage that moved his audience, Mr Howard, the
son of a Romanian Jewish shopkeeper who fled to Britain soon before the Second
World War, spoke of how his grandmother had perished in a concentration camp,
and how if it had not been for Winston Churchill and Britain he would have
suffered the same fate. That was why when he said he owed everything he had and
everything he was to this country he really meant it. "I owe my life to Britain.
My father told me Britain was the best country in the world. I think it was. I
think it still is.

But I know it could be doing so much better."

Outlining his early programme of action, he promised a war on crime, with zero-
tolerance policing, police freed from form-filling and out on the streets
instead, an end to Labour's early prisoner release scheme and more prisons. Head
teachers would be given the final say on school expulsion and disruptive pupils
prevented from wrecking other children's education.

He promised a crackdown on bureaucracy to free more more money for frontline
health and education, action against hospital infections, greater choice for
parents and patients, and more control for professional workers in the public
services over the work they do.

There would be dignity for pensioners, with the link between pensions and
earning restored. He made a firm commitment to cutting taxation, saying that
cutting government waste would "help put us on the path to lower taxes". He
added: "When I can I will cut taxes." Then he cautioned: "But I'm not like Tony
Blair. I'm not going to make promises I can't keep."

Britain had reached a turning point over immigration; unlimited immigration
could not be allowed to continue, and in the first month of a Tory government
Parliament would be asked to put an annual limit on the number of people coming
to Britain.

He gave the conference ten words that summed up the Tory approach to the
problems worrying people -"school discipline, more police, cleaner hospitals,
lower taxes, controlled immigration".

Mr Howard said Britain had reached a point when Conservative ideas were more
relevant to the challenges the country faced. "I am a Conservative because I
believe that if people are given a choice, they will make the right decision for
them and their families. I am a Conservative because I understand that families
are better at spending their hard-earned cash than governments are.

"We want to live in a society where people have the freedom to get on in life
and with their lives, safe in the knowledge that government will provide them
with security. Freedom and security -two timeless Conservative ambitions."

What would make you vote Tory?

Send your e-mails to debate@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 6, 2004, Wednesday

Big donor returns to Tories from UKIP

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 975 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK'S bid to become leader of the UK Independence Party backfired
last night, as the current head threatened to discipline him for disloyalty.

Mr Kilroy-Silk suffered the worst day of his new-found political career, with a
tough reprimand from Roger Knapman, the leader of the UKIP, as well as causing
his party's most powerful backer to jump ship to the Conservatives.

First the former broadcaster travelled to have lunch with Paul Sykes, the
self-made Yorkshire millionaire, in London, where he failed to persuade him to
return his support to the UKIP.

After the meal between both men and their wives, Mr Sykes was not to be moved,
stating that he did not "see eye to eye" with Mr Kilroy-Silk on the future
direction that the party would take.

His dramatic exit from the UKIP was caused by Mr Kilroy-Silk's impassioned
speech to the party's annual general conference at the weekend, in which he
secured the party's vote to stand against all Conservative MPs, even those who
were sympathetic to the anti-European Union cause. Mr Sykes, who almost
single-handedly bankrolled the UKIP's successful European election campaign this
summer, said that he has now switched his support back to the Conservatives.

"It's over now with UKIP, it's finished. I'm not going to fund any of their
candidates or the party until the next general election," said Mr Sykes, who
gave the party £1.4 million this year and has an estimated fortune of £350
million.

"Nothing Kilroy can say to can make me change my mind," he said.

Later Mr Knapman said that he had run out of patience with Mr Kilroy-Silk, who
spurned the second day of the UKIP party conference to launch his bid to oust Mr
Knapman. Mr Knapman said that the party could not "forever tolerate" such
off-message comments and said there was "no question" of him being made leader.

He also flatly denied Mr Kilroy-Silk's claim that he had been promised the
leadership of the party.

"It is one thing to be ambitious. He must start to think about being a team
player," he said.

Mr Knapman said that people were now asking if the former talkshow host wanted a
party based on serious politics or "a Kilroy-Silk party based on showbiz".

"I think Robert is beginning to understand that politics is a bit more serious a
business than he might have been engaged in for a while," he said.

He said that he could not "nanny" Mr Kilroy-Silk and gave warning that the party
had disciplinary procedures that could be used against him.

Mr Kilroy-Silk came out fighting, claiming that he would continue to lead the
party's general election campaign, despite the loss of Mr Sykes.

"I have no doubt at all that he will continue to work closely with us," he said.

"We speak on the phone every day, that won't change, and there is no big
difference between us. We both want a party governing Westminster that will take
us out of Europe."

In the short term, Alan Bown, the wealthy former bookmaker from Kent and
longstanding UKIP backer, said that he would step into the funding shortfall
left by Mr Sykes's departure.

But he, too, said that he was against the policy backed by Mr Kilroy-Silk, of
standing in every seat instead of choosing seats strategically. Mr Sykes last
night denied accusations made by Ruth Kelly, the new Cabinet Office Minister,
that he had made a "secret deal" with the Conservative Party leadership,
offering the party money in return for a more Eurosceptic policy.

He said that he had not promised them any money: "I'm going to wait and see what
they do first," he said. But he is a longstanding ally of John Redwood, who has
recently been returned to the Shadow Cabinet.

It is Mr Redwood who was the lead figure in courting Mr Sykes for the
Conservatives in 2000, and he was again key in persauding Mr Sykes of his
party's harder line on the EU in the past few weeks.

"We must realise that the Conservatives are the only party we must rally round
and support if we don't want to be on the frast track to a federal government
from Brussels," Mr Sykes said.

He added that he had been impressed by the tone of Michael Howard's recent
speeches, on the EU constitution and fishing rights.

The Conservative Party has often tried to woo Mr Sykes back since he left the
party more than 20 years ago. In 2000, William Hague, then the leader, said he
would not make the concessions that Mr Sykes wanted in return for his cash.

Afterwards Mr Sykes declared "that's it for the Conservatives". Yesterday Mr
Hague said that Mr Sykes: "likes maximum dramatic effect for minimum
expenditure, and that's fine but it does mean he changes from time to time".

Tim Collins, the Shadow Education Minister, told the conference that the UKIP
would not win a single seat at the general election.

Urging UKIP voters to "come home" to the Conservatives, he said: "Don't just
hope for a Eurosceptic government, vote for one."

* EUROSCEPTIC WITH A BULGING WALLET

*Paul Sykes is a Yorkshire property tycoon who has for ten years offered Tories
cash to take a harder line on Europe

*Worth about £350 million, he set aside £25 million for anti-EU causes, but has
spent only £5 million in ten years

*Mr Sykes abandoned the Tories in 1994 in protest at John Major's "wait and see"
approach to the euro

*He founded the Democracy movement, which later joined forces with Sir James
Goldsmith's Referendum Party

*Before the 1997 general election, he gave more than £1 million to support Tory
candidates who defied party policy and ruled out ever joining the single
currency

*In late-2000, he offered £20 million for William Hague to adopt an anti-EU
policy. Mr Hague, then Tory leader, refused

*Mr Sykes switched his support to the UK Independence Party. He gave £1.4
million before June's Euro-elections


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2004

UKIP's bankroller pulls out

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 185 words


THE UK Independence Party lost its biggest financial backer yesterday.

Multimillionaire Yorkshire businessman Paul Sykes announced he would no longer
give his cash to UKIP because it had vowed to 'kill' the Conservatives at the
next election by putting up candidates against Eurosceptic Tory MPs.

The tycoon's move was also seen as vindicating Michael Howard's decision to
swing the Tory Party to the right.

The loss of cash could be devastating to UKIP as Mr Sykes, who has a Pounds
470million fortune, contributed half the party's Pounds 2million fighting fund
for this year's European elections.

In that poll the anti-Brussels party quadrupled its number of Euro MPs and
emerged as a significant political force in Britain.

Mr Sykes's decision came as an enormous relief to Tory MPs in marginal
constituencies.

Between 30 and 50 current MPs stood to be pushed out of Parliament by UKIP at
the next election.

His switch of position came hours after Shadow Home Secretary David Davis warned
UKIP posed the same threat that the Referendum Party represented at the 1997
election.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              197 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2004

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 441 words


HAVING selected a candidate far later than other parties and, last Thursday,
been knocked into fourth place behind Labour, the Lib Dems and UKIP,
Conservative Central Office got around yesterday to sending out briefing
instructions to MPs who might be asked about the Hartlepool byelection disaster.
One of their tips: 'Point out that we saved our deposit.' It's hard to know
whether to laugh or cry.

SINCE these are bleak times, the luncheon in Bournemouth yesterday for two Tory
grandees Nicholas Soames MP, pictured, Churchill's grandson, and wealthy
landowner Lord Hesketh was an appropriately understated affair.

Entertained by members of Her Majesty's Press, the pair began with three dozen
oysters before moving on to crab cakes and later plates of beef accompanied (in
Capt. Hesketh's case) by 'a vat of chips'. After chocolate pudding, the happy
duo felt up to facing the challenging week ahead.

TORY leader Michael Howard's lovely wife, Sandra, has spent five years writing a
'bonkbuster' novel, Love In High Profile, but it has yet to find a publisher.

Might four-times-married Mrs Howard, a former model, lack the necessary
experience for saucy literature?

JANET Leigh, who has died in Beverly Hills aged 77, went off taking showers
after starring in Alfred Hitchcock's film Psycho in 1960, for which she was paid
a paltry $25,000 but received an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe.

The famous shower scene, in which she was stabbed and slashed to death by a
frenzied Anthony Perkins, took seven days, and 70 different takes. Some wonder
now if it wasn't a symptom of plug-ugly Hitchcock's repressed longing/loathing
for beautiful blonde women.

MICHAEL Parkinson seemed rather dispirited in his new ITV slot on Saturday
interviewing actor Kevin Kline. Next day, on his Radio 2 show, guest Nancy
Sinatra asked why she hadn't been on his TV show, adding: 'I'm in love with
Kevin Kline.' Mr Parkinson replied: 'I have no say in who's on it.' Isn't it
sad?

BARBARA Kelly, the Canadian-born actress and TV personality, and widow of
Bernard Braden, is 80 today. She is unlikely to be receiving birthday greetings
from Esther Rantzen OBE. Ms Rantzen, who took over Mr Braden's TV show, alleged
in her 2001 autobiography, Esther, that Ms Kelly was 'convinced that Bernie was
the victim of a plot' by herself and her late husband, Desmond Wilcox, 'to knife
him in the back'.

A WESTMINSTER source on Gordon Brown: 'The Treasury is a bit like Fallujah.

We haven't a clue what's going on in there. We haven't anyone in there to tell
us. And the place is full of fundamentalists devoted to their leader.'

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              198 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2004

Mandy Nouveau

SECTION: ED_3RD_XA; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 852 words



PETER Mandelson tried to shed the carcass of his political past yesterday to
evolve into his new role as Mr Europe.

He publicly cast off his previous life as New Labour's chief reformer and
spinmaster and was instantly reborn as Mandy Nouveau, the palatable, easily
digestible commissionerin-waiting to the European Parliament.

In a three-hour interrogation by MEPs from the International Trade Committee,
the twice-departed former Cabinet Minister emerged virtually unscathed after a
slick and perfectly calculated performance for this, his first major appearance
on the international political stage. He even brought his own bar of Fair Trade
chocolate to brandish before the cameras.

But the so-called 'grilling' failed to include a single question about his
personal life, only one about his financial integrity and none about the
scandals which ended his career in front line British politics.

It allowed Mr Mandelson to sail confidently past this first obstacle in his path
to potential glory in Europe the hearing in Brussels was effectively a job
interview to test his commitment to Europe, and assess whether he is a suitable
candidate for the Pounds 147,000a-year post of Trade Commissioner when the EC
starts work on November 1.

He sold himself as 'a dedicated team player' who had always been pro-European
even in the 'dark days' of the British Labour Party, he said.

Then he spoke of the 'powerful inspiration' that Europe's combined strength and
values had given him.

Somehow you couldn't help thinking of a hermit crab that had suddenly ditched
its old shell after finding a bigger and better one.

It should be said, however, that things began badly for Tony Blair's close
friend and trusted supporter even before he squeezed his ego into a modest
leather chair inside a chamber of the parliament headquarters in Brussels.

First, TV screens all over the building announced him as 'M.

Mendelson'. Then the sound went dead on his introductory speech, which he had
just opened with a few lines of well-rehearsed French.

With a thin-lipped smile he made light of the embarrassment, excusing the
silence by declaring: 'Just as long as it's a technical problem and not a
political one.' 'For the moment it's technical,' said committee chairman Enrique
Baron, opening the exciting possibility that it might not remain so.

Nigel Farage, leader of Britain's UKIP members in the European Parliament,
sported a Pounds sign lapel badge and looked as if he meant business.

He asked if Mr Mandelson would withdraw his Privy Counsellor's oath of
allegiance to the Queen now he had sworn an oath of allegiance to the European
Union.

Mr Mandelson said he would not.

He completely rejected the notion that someone could not pursue what is best for
their country while pursuing what is best for Europe.

And he confirmed he would campaign for a 'Yes' vote in a constitutional
referendum.

On what might loosely be translated as the question of dodgy dealing, he was
asked by another MEP to promise that he would handle all his financial interests
'in the correct way'. He said he would 'make doubly sure that my political,
financial and other interests are in place' to the satisfaction of the rules
governing commissioners.

This was the only oblique reference to events that Mr Mandelson had almost
casually glossed over in his written evidence to the committee.

He wrote that his time as a minister had been 'shorter than I would have
wished', and claimed his two resignations from the Government were for 'a set of
unfortunate reasons'.

In case any MEPs needed reminding, Mr Mandelson resigned as Trade Secretary in
1998 after revelations of a Pounds 373,000 home loan he secured from Paymaster
General Geoffrey Robinson.

He quit for a second time in 2001 as Northern Ireland Secretary over the Hinduja
passports affair, in which he was subsequently cleared of any deliberate deceit.
Ah, but that was all behind him now. So far behind that he kept telling us how
much he had moved on.

Labour MEP David Martin helpfully raised the question of where Mr Mandelson's
loyalties would lie if there was a dispute between Blair and new Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso.

Suddenly Mr Mandelson's unblinking eyes came alight with delight.

The question allowed him to declare: 'I have moved on from being a British
Parliamentarian. I've moved on from being a New Labour politician. I've moved on
from being the supporter, in an active day to day sense, of Tony Blair.

'I'm not a House of Commons man,' he added. 'I'm a European Parliament man.

I'm not a British Labour Government man, I'm a European Commission man.' Now,
like teachers compiling a school report on the new boy, his interrogators will
draft a 'letter of evaluation' on Mr Mandelson before an EU vote on whether to
approve all 24 commissioners-in-waiting.

A 'No' vote either means delicate negotiations with the candidate's home
country, or starting again with a whole new set of commissioners.

In either case, expect to see much more of Mandy Nouveau.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              199 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2004

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 657 words


GOSH, it's a blue set as blue as a lavatory whose cistern has been loaded with
one of those disinfectant pellets.

Someone has pulled the chain and the entire Bournemouth hall has whooshed loo
blue, complete with the Tories' revamped, now slightly totalitarian torch
symbol.

The first words I heard, on entering the conference yesterday, were from party
co-chairman Liam Fox. 'We will never surrender,' he said, echoing Churchill.
Dear me, are the opinion polls that bad?

In fact Mr Fox was discussing the red, blue and white of the Union Jack, and how
he refuses to surrender those colours to fringe political parties such as the
BNP and UKIP.

Down here on Death Row (if the mass media's view of the Tory gettogether is to
be believed) the mood is unexpectedly perky. Maybe it's the sunshine, maybe it's
denial, or maybe they genuinely think Hartlepool was a freak disaster.

Hartlepool certainly isn't a no-go subject. They talk of it like Alpine skiers
cheerfully discussing their latest monumental wipe- out on the black run.

The conference is being chaired by a 28-year-old with chipmunk cheeks and a
shiny nose. He's not ineloquent and is without doubt an improvement on the
Rotary Club-type worthies who have acted in the past as MC.

Before the economics debate, pop music thumped out of the speakers during lulls
in proceedings, the decibels causing some of the older dears' dewlaps to wobble.
A series of youngish speakers made brief orations, one of them a lesbian,
another a terrific, eye-bulging belter called Annesley Abercorn.

Despite the aristocratic surname Mr Peppercorn, or whatever, proved to be an
Asian lad with a flair for histrionics.

'Waste! Waste! Waste!' he shouted, about Labour's attitude to public spending.
At the third 'waste' even the deafest representatives got the message and gave
him a clap.

This was a vintage Young Tory rant, of a sort not seen since the Thatcher years.
No one enjoyed it more than Mr Barleycorn himself. He seemed reluctant to leave
the scene of his triumph.

Iain Duncan Smith was given an ovation, simply for turning up.

Michael Howard arrived via a completely white door. Among the audience there was
a high proportion of razor-haired, 30-something men who with their dark suits
and Muttley jaws looked like off-duty coppers.

THEN Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Chancellor, made one of those schmoozy,
front-oflectern speeches, minus notes or autocue. These things, pioneered by
Michael Portillo here a couple of years ago, are the political equivalent of
jumping off the cliffs at Acapulco: eyecatching but dangerous.

Mr Letwin, occasionally hesitant, just about survived though he used a year's
ration of arm gestures. His fists pistoned up and down so much he could have
been playing that scissorsrock/paper game. At another moment he described a
great square in the air with his forefingers, like a rugger ref calling for a TV
replay on a dodgy touchdown.

His fingers were quivering, his voice shook, and his face creased up to the
point when I thought he was about to burst into tears. At the end, to his
credit, he did not stand there milking the applause. He just did a brisk
about-turn and legged it for the exit perhaps for the nearest drinks cabinet.

Everyone is being urged to talk about what the Tories will do once they have won
the General Election.

There is so much positive thinking that one's hair almost lifts with the static.
Liam Fox said: 'Welcome to our last conference in Opposition!' Cue an arthritic
little cheer.

George Osborne, Shadow Treasury Chief Secretary, spoke of how he fully hopes to
be in Government under 'Prime Minister Howard'. This was met by a stunned
silence.

'We're not dying, we're flying,' bawled another young thruster called Graham
Stuart. Plenty of them were certainly doing that in the bars later on.

There's nothing like a bad byelection result to boost bar takings.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              200 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

Millionaire backer drops UKIP Tory relief as Sykes withdraws support

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Toby Helm and George Jones

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 913 words

MICHAEL HOWARD'S hard-line policy on blocking an EU constitution and bringing
powers back from Brussels paid its first dividend last night when the UK
Independence Party lost its biggest financial backer.

Paul Sykes, a multi-millionaire Yorkshire businessman, said he would no longer
fund UKIP because it had set out to "kill" the Conservatives at the next
election by fielding candidates who could unseat Eurosceptic Tory MPs.

His decision will come as a considerable relief to Tory MPs in marginal
constituencies. David Davis, the Eurosceptic shadow home secretary, suggested
yesterday that UKIP could damage the Tories in the same way as the former
Referendum Party, which was reckoned to have cost them 30 to 50 seats in 1997.

Mr Sykes contributed half of UKIP's pounds 2 million fighting fund for this
year's European elections, which helped the anti-Brussels party quadruple its
tally of Euro-MPs and emerge as a significant force.

Over the past decade Mr Sykes has spent nearly pounds 6 million on campaigns by
Eurosceptic politicians. UKIP had been relying heavily on his backing for its
general election campaign next year.

Mr Sykes said that UKIP had "blown it" by deciding at its conference at the
weekend to stand against the Tories in every constituency, rejecting calls not
to challenge Tory MPs regarded as Eurosceptic.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat show host and UKIP's best-known politician,
was instrumental in that decision. He said UKIP should kill the dying Tory party
not give it the kiss of life.

Although Mr Sykes had wanted Mr Kilroy-Silk to become UKIP's leader, they have
fallen out over the new aggressive strategy.

Mr Sykes said that UKIP could not win a general election and by standing in
every constituency it would damage the Tories, the only Eurosceptic party
capable of forming a government.

Leading Tories, including John Redwood, who returned to the shadow cabinet last
month, have been in secret talks with Mr Sykes for weeks.

Mr Sykes, who made his fortune by exporting second-hand buses and lorries, said
he welcomed Mr Howard's tougher line on Europe.

The Tory leader has promised to hold a referendum on the European constitution
within six months of coming to power and to campaign for a No vote.

He said that, if he secured it, he would go to Brussels to demand the
repatriation of powers that had already been ceded to the EU, including fishing
policy.

Liam Fox, the Tories' co-chairman, and Mr Redwood told the party conference in
Bournemouth that the fight to repatriate powers from Brussels and kill off the
EU constitution would be priorities for a Tory government.

Their pledges follow a three-year period in which the Conservatives have tried
to keep the lid on their deep internal divisions over Europe by concentrating
more on domestic policy issues.

But after their disastrous showing in last week's Hartlepool by-election, where
they came fourth behind UKIP, Mr Howard has sanctioned a tough anti-Brussels
message to try to woo back ardent Eurosceptics.

In an anti-Brussels speech that alarmed the party's pro-Europeans, Dr Fox told
delegates that the Tories would give the British people control of their own
country. Mr Redwood said that within a month of coming to power the Tories would
compile a list of unwanted European regulations that would have to be repealed
after a No vote.

They would also stop the "murder" of Britain's fish by quitting the common
fisheries policy.

At a fringe meeting, Mr Redwood singled out Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP,
as a real threat and said that Eurosceptics should unite under the Tory banner.

"His objective is not to rescue this country from Brussels," he said. "His
objective is to kill the Tory party. Once a Labour MP, always a Labour MP."

He appealed to UKIP voters to realise that the Tories' policy of renegotiating
Britain's role in Europe but not withdrawing was the way to go.

"It is naive and dishonest to say we can simply pull out of the EU," he said.

The harder line on Europe - and a commitment by Oliver Letwin, the shadow
chancellor, that from day one a Conservative government would start slimming
down Whitehall to set the country on the path to a lower tax economy - were seen
in Bournemouth as a drive to shore up the party's core vote.

Frequent references were made to Margaret Thatcher's legacy as senior Tories
signalled an end to the strategy of apologising for the mistakes made by former
Conservative governments.

Mr Howard, who addresses the conference for the first time as leader today, will
say that one of his central tasks if he wins power will be to rebuild trust in
politics.

He will say that the public is fed up with politicians who have failed to keep
their promises and pledge to sack Cabinet ministers if they fail to fulfil the
promises that his government has made.

An ICM poll commissioned by the BBC Newsnight programme said that only 12 per
cent of the public believed that Mr Howard would realise his ambition to become
prime minister. Even among Tory supporters, 65 per cent did not think he would
make it to No 10.

Forty-two per cent of those interviewed believed that the Liberal Democrats were
the effective opposition, compared with 22 per cent for the Tories.

But Lord Saatchi, the Tory co-chairman, told a fringe meeting that the party's
research suggested it would gain 103 of its 130 Labour-held target seats if an
election were held tomorrow - enough to produce a hung parliament.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              201 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

Speakers rush to press the Right buttons Inside politics

BYLINE: By Alice Thomson

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 04

LENGTH: 694 words

'ALL they've given us is Nicholas Soames's first kiss," said one moderniser
yesterday. "It's a disaster. We've gone back to our core vote."

The cry was the same all round the conference yesterday: the Tories have gone
back to basics. Europe and immigration were at the top of the agenda.

The conference was drapped in red, white and blue and the stewards were wearing
baseball caps.

The speakers pressed all the "Right" buttons. Dr Liam Fox started it with his
speech, which he admitted privately was the most important of his life. "We will
never surrender the colours of our flag," the party co-chairman said to cheers.

The Tories would not be "a soft touch" on immigration, he said. He ridiculed
political correctness and worshipped at the shrine of Margaret Thatcher. "Who
cares about the sensitivities of rapists, what about the sensitivities of the
victims of rape?" he told a rapturous audience. John Redwood received a standing
ovation for mentioning the Tories' favourite bugbear, the Dome, and his heroine
Lady Thatcher. Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, dug even further into Tory
party roots, mentioning Salisbury, Disraeli and Wilberforce.

The more recent campaigns talking about "choice" and the "British dream - open
to all" appear to have been dropped.

"They've made the mistake of playing to the old ladies in the audience and
forgotten the rest of the country," said Lord Patten, one of John Major's former
ministers.

"It's hunker down until the election," he told me. Nick Wood was more succinct.
"They've cracked and gone back to their core vote," said Iain Duncan Smith's
former head of media. "They might as well have stuck with Iain."

Gregor Mackay, William Hague's former media adviser, agreed. "They're going to
make the same mistake we did in 2001," he said. "They start off fishing in the
sea for votes and they end up poking around in a puddle outside their front
door."

The modernisers were looking forlorn. "They told us it was all going to be
different but all they have done is put a couple of white leather armchairs on
the stage and asked shadow ministers for their favourite music," said one.

One of Mr Howard's advisers explained: "We thought that we could hijack the
party but the old guard got there first. When we talked to the agents, all they
wanted was red meat and that's what Mr Howard feels most comfortable with."

Ann Widdecombe, jumping on the miniature train to take her along the beach, was
grinning widely. "They'll bring her back next," said one young Tory MP.

At a fringe event, David Cameron, the modernising MP in charge of policy
co-ordination, held his head in his hands as John Redwood launched into a tirade
against Brussels.

Mr Cameron told his fellow minister: "We won't win by picking one subject -
whether it is Europe or anything else - and talking about it incessantly."

He added: "Does the Tory Party need to modernise itself? Yes, of course."

He said there needed to be a "we" in Tory politics as well as a "me", and he
talked about helping drug addicts, handicapped children and pensioners.

Stephen Dorrell, the former minister, told me: "They should have got their core
vote by now. Modernising doesn't mean lots of touchy, feely stuff. It means
addressing the concerns of floating voters: tax cuts, education, health and
roads."

Those closest to Mr Howard made no apology for returning to the populist vote.
"We've got to neutralise UKIP," said one.

But the biggest difference between this year's conference and the last few years
is that no one is discussing the leadership any more.

"The party is united for the first time in years behind Michael Howard. A few
policy differences don't matter," said Malcolm Rifkind, the parliamentary
candidate for Kensington and Chelsea.

What unites both the traditionalists and the modernisers is tax cuts. They were
all impressed by Mr Letwin's speech promising to address stamp duty, inheritance
tax and council tax.

But it is Annesley Abercorn, a teenager from Brent East, who has become the
conference darling. He told the audience: "More freedom, less tax. It's simple,"
and instantly became the next leader but two.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              202 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

Breakfast cereal chit-chat upsets alien in the box Sketch

BYLINE: by Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 04

LENGTH: 545 words

THE Conservative Party yesterday adopted a daring new strategy. It intends to
demonstrate that its leaders are human.

Traditionalists expressed concern that the extra-terrestrial element in the
leadership might have to undergo life-threatening cosmetic surgery, of a kind
that would be ridiculed in the press without doing anything to convince voters
that the aliens have turned into normal humans.

John Redwood was thought to be at particular risk. The whole point of bringing
him back to the shadow cabinet was surely, as one of his colleagues put it
yesterday, "to strengthen our vote in outlying planets", but how can Mr Redwood
achieve this if he is expected to behave the same as everyone else?

Mr Redwood came to the rostrum and emitted a cry of triumph which in light years
to come will resonate through the farther reaches of the solar system: "Yes, I'm
back!"

Yet the performance that followed was relatively tame, at least when judged by
Mr Redwood's own high standards, and one suspects that the Brussels-bashing
parts of it were only loud enough to reach Harrogate, Yorks, home to Paul Sykes,
formerly the main financial backer of the UKIP.

It was as if all the questions being put this week to members of the shadow
cabinet, about their first kiss, their favourite movie and even,
controversially, their favourite way of spending Sunday morning, were preying on
Mr Redwood's mind and diverting his thoughts from the inter-galactic battle he
has long waged against the dark warriors of Brussels.

These impertinent questions are presumably designed to show that the
Conservatives are the same as you and me, as if Edward Heath and Margaret
Thatcher got to Downing Street by proving they are the same as other men or
women.

Leadership, as successful soldiers show, is about respect. It is not about
telling people what your favourite breakfast cereal is.

But Mr Redwood has begun brooding on his own identity, a sure sign that all is
not well with him. At one point he even said: "I've got a confession to make.
I'm a motorist."

It emerged that, like many other motorists, Mr Redwood is infuriated by the
"bumps and humps and chicanes and tortuous routes and speed cameras" that hold
him up whenever he goes for a spin. Mr Redwood evidently feels that he is being
forced to go far too slowly. He protested that most accidents actually take
place at junctions when, as he could have argued, drivers - or political parties
- are changing direction.

If Mr Redwood went slowly, Oliver Letwin seemed at times to be almost stationary
as he conducted a stately left turn into busy traffic. Some of us are nervous
passengers, so we like being driven by Mr Letwin in this cautious spirit.

Mr Letwin made a powerful point when said it would not be brave of him to
promise tax cuts: "It'd be very, very easy. I'd say it. You'd cheer. We'd all
leave. And no one out there would believe us."

In Mr Letwin, we have the marvellous spectacle of a man who is determined to put
the British state on the diet it so evidently requires, yet refuses to promise
us we all shall be richer as a result. All he would say was that he would "set
Britain on the path to a lower-tax economy". He could also be setting us on the
path to a more honest style of politics.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              203 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

Campaigner closes his UKIP chequebook Another about-turn for Yorkshireman with
deep pockets

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Conservatives at Bournemouth Pg. 04

LENGTH: 466 words

EVEN by the standards of Yorkshiremen, Paul Sykes has a reputation for
stubbornness.

But somehow, John Redwood has sweet-talked the Yorkshire millionaire if not back
into the Tories, then away from the UK Independence Party.

The unlikely honeyed-tongue of Mr Redwood and other prominent shadow cabinet
members was helped hugely by last weekend's decision by UKIP to fight every seat
at the next election, irrespective of whether that unseated Euro-sceptic Tory
MPs and let in Euro-federalist Liberal Democrats.

Mr Sykes, a self-made Barnsley boy, has twice stormed out of the Tory fold over
Europe but he could not agree with Robert Kilroy-Silk's call on Saturday for
UKIP to "kill" the Conservative Party.

The disagreement is dramatic. Thus far Mr Sykes, a property developer, has been
the former television presenter's main cheerleader in his attempt to become
leader of UKIP and turn it into a professional, fighting machine.

Indeed, it was the Yorkshireman's alleged promise of cash that led to Mr
Kilroy-Silk's boast at a Westminster lunch that he had been personally promised
the money to fight a nationwide campaign on UKIP's behalf.

The money, if it was ever promised in such unequivocal terms, will not be
forthcoming now. Not even Mr Kilroy-Silk's coronation as leader would now bring
back the Sykes chequebook, the millionaire insisted last night.

The Tory leaders will reach for the champagne and hail the news as the first
real dividend of Mr Howard's decision to bring back Mr Redwood to address the
UKIP threat.

Yesterday's announcement follows intensive behind-the-scenes negotiations and
will make UKIP more dependent on its other main donor, the retired bookmaker
Alan Bown.

Some Tories will privately mock Mr Sykes's largesse. He has a reputation for
teasing Conservatives with pledges of cash but then not delivering. Not so with
UKIP. Even it says Mr Sykes contributed pounds 1 million to its pounds 2 million
European election fund this year. But his support was conditional and,
privately, he was scathing about what he saw as UKIP's ramshackle leadership.

If he felt the UKIP vehicle was going off the rails, he was always ready to jump
trains.

Mr Sykes's passion is Europe, not party politics. In fact, reputedly worth
pounds 500 million, he told The Daily Telegraph that he had spent the best part
of pounds 6 million in the past eight years funding publications, think-tanks
and campaigns to expose the truth about the EU. "I am a campaigner," he said
last night.

But for the time being, his guns are no longer turned on the Tories. Unlike in
1997, he would not fund anti-EU candidates of any persuasion against sitting
Tory MPs, he said.

So is he about to return to the Tory fold? "Not yet," he said last night.

Progress indeed for Mr Redwood.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              204 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

I'm an EU man from now on, Mandelson tells vetting panel

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 647 words

PETER Mandelson vowed yesterday to forswear British politics and devote himself
whole-heartedly to the European project if confirmed as trade commissioner for
the next five years.

Soothing French MEPs in an accomplished performance at the European Parliament,
the New Labour loyalist insisted that his first allegiance would now be to
Brussels.

"I have moved on. I am not a House of Commons man. I am a European Parliament
man. I am a European Commission man," he said, promising to keep his distance
from Downing Street.

"I am a member of a commission whose independence, whose strength and whose
assertiveness on behalf of the European cause is the most important thing for me
now," he said.

As trade commissioner, Mr Mandelson will be the chief negotiator for the world's
biggest trading bloc with far-reaching influence over the shape of the global
economy in coming years.

He will be Britain's only commissioner under the new rules following the
European Union's expansion to 25 states in June.

Even staunch critics had to concede that he had mastered the arcane details of
trade policy with astonishing speed over the summer weeks, displaying his grip
on Union law and global commerce at the three-hour confirmation rite yesterday.

Opening his remarks in stiff French before switching to English, he sought to
soften his image as a free trade zealot or an Anglo-Saxon "liberal" - a dirty
word to the European Left.

"I believe in market-based economics as the best way of ensuring jobs and
welfare for our society, but not at any price," he said, insisting that he
prized Europe's tradition of social cohesion.

Staking out the moral high ground, he said he hoped to champion the cause of
"trade justice" for poor countries, rather than merely defend EU interests.

Flagging at the end of three hours, he even pulled out a bar of Fair Trade
chocolate for an invigorating munch. Chris Davies, MEP, the Liberal Democrat
leader in Brussels, said: "He came over as a class act, articulate,
well-informed, and principled in his approach to complex trade matters."

A Dutch socialist MEP Jan Marinus Wiersma described his performance as nothing
less than "amazing", predicting that Mr Mandelson would prove to be a star
performer in the new team of Jose Manuel Barroso.

But the Master of Spin was evasive at times, declining to say whether he would
support commission plans to strip Britain of its pounds 2 billion annual rebate
when pressed by the Conservatives.

"My view is that this issue must be resolved. It must be fair, and be seen to be
fair." he said. "The outgoing commission has made an interesting proposal that
would sharply reduce the UK rebate. You will understand if I reserve my judgment
on that matter."

Mr Mandelson artfully avoided answering whether he would back Brussels or London
in a clash over increases in the EU's total budget.

"We cannot have more Europe on less money. But at the same time, the commission
has to be accountable in how money is being spent," he said.

The signs that Mr Mandelson is already going native before starting work on Nov
1 provoked an acerbic response from Nigel Farage, MEP, the UK Independence
Party's leader in Brussels.

He called on the former Cabinet minister to resign his post as a Privy
Councillor since he could not serve two masters, swearing allegiance to both the
British sovereign and the EU.

Mr Mandelson shot back that there was no conflict between patriotism and fervour
for Europe.

Perhaps the rawest wound was opened by the Liberal Democrat MEP Sajjad Karim,
who accused Mr Mandelson of hypocrisy in extolling the virtues of democracy at
work in the European Parliament after having served in a Government that had
done so much to undermine accountability to the House of Commons.

For a rare moment, Mr Mandelson showered flickers of irritation - which were
very quickly controlled.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              205 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 05, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP equipped

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 221 words

SIR - Frederick Forsyth refers to UKIP as a single-issue party (Letters, Oct 4).
It is not. Like any serious party, it has a full manifesto.

But what good is a manifesto without the power to carry it out? Regaining this
power from the EU is, and will remain, the primary function of the party. It is
the single issue on which all other issues depend.

Critics of UKIP as a single-issue party are trying too hard. One can picture
them castigating a drowning man for being obsessed with the struggle for air.
They would, no doubt, try to draw the man's attention to the depth of the water,
its temperature and currents.

Sadly, when it comes to politics, the electorate fails to recognise the danger
of the loss of power, particularly when it is deliberately obscured by
convoluted verbiage and a politicised media.

Over the past 33 years, the Lib/Lab/Con alliance has consistently transferred,
or supported the transfer, of the power to initiate, finance and control United
Kingdom policy, to the EU. And we have now reached a position where the
Government has so little power that, as long as we remain in the EU, it can
hardly be said to have any policies at all.

So rather than UKIP being a single-issue party, it is the Labour, Tories and Lib
Dems that are no-issue parties.

John Atkinson

Burghfield, Berks

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              206 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 5, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; WE CAN'T BACK TIMID TORIES WITHOUT FIRM TAX PLEDGES

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 226 words


HAS the Tory Party lost its nerve?

Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin cannot win us over with feeble talk of lower
taxes if he refuses to make specific pledges.

We do not expect chapter and verse of his tax-cutting plans. But the electorate
deserves more than sweeping statements, especially from a party that has had
plenty of time to plan.

In particular, we want a commitment from the Tories to increase the threshold at
which inheritance tax bites. Soaring house prices mean that millions of
homeowners have been dragged into the net of this tax which once hit only the
rich. We believe we should be able to pass on our hard-earned cash to our
children.

We also want a promise to ease the burden of stamp duty, another tax which was
meant to to be paid only by the better off but which, because of house price
inflation, now hits ordinary people - especially first-time buyers, the
lifeblood of the housing market.

The timid Tories cannot expect voters to follow them unless they know where they
are going. No wonder the party plunged from second to fourth place last week at
Hartlepool - a first for the Tories in an English constituency.

Whatever one thinks of Ukip's Robert Kilroy-Silk, he speaks with courage and
conviction. If he took the helm at Ukip it could supplant the Tories and they
would only have themselves to blame.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              207 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 5, 2004

KILROY-SILK CANNOT TAKE CREDIT FOR UKIP SUCCESS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 90 words


HOW arrogant of Robert Kilroy-Silk to declare himself the rightful leader of the
United Kingdom Independence Party.

Before finding a home with UKIP, Mr Kilroy-Silk was an ex-TV presenter with a
long-forgotten career in politics. Roger Knapman, on the other hand, has built
up his party's profile to impressive heights in just a few years.

No doubt Kilroy-Silk's arrival has been a publicity boost, but he surely cannot
take credit for the party's recent gains. Show respect to Mr Knapman, Robert.

Bill Sutherland, Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              208 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Howard: I'll sack ministers who break promises: Rallying the troops: The
rejuvenated Tory party in Bournemouth

BYLINE: Michael White and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words


Michael Howard will today make a dramatic attempt to win the trust of
disillusioned voters by promising to sack cabinet ministers who fail to deliver
the detailed election promises on target.

In a self-lacerating address to the party faithful and the wider television
audience, the Conservative leader will admit during his speech to the party's
conference in Bournemouth: "Politicians seem to live in a different world, where
promises are dropped just as casually as they are made, a world where there are
no penalties for failure."

Mr Howard received a boost today when it emerged that Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire
millionaire who has been the main Ukip financial backer, has fallen out with
Robert Kilroy-Silk over his wholehearted endorsement of the party's weekend
decision to "kill off" the Conservatives.

Mr Sykes, who contributed nearly half of Ukip's £2m fighting fund for this
year's European elections, said the policy of fielding candidates who could
unseat Eurosceptic Tory MPs at the next election meant he could no longer
support them. The decision will be a huge relief to Mr Howard and a reward for
his hardline policy on Europe.

The news came as David Davis, the shadow home secretary, admitted Ukip had the
ability to really damage Conservative fortunes, estimating they could cost as
many seats as the Referendum party in 1997 - between 30 and 50. Mr Sykes, who
has welcomed Mr Howard's tougher line on Eu rope, said Ukip had "blown it".

The Conservative leader will break with tradition by making his keynote
conference speech on a Tuesday, much as Labour leaders have long done, as part
of his desperate attempt to restore momentum and credibility to a party battered
by defeat for a decade.

The detailed "timetable for action" which the Tories are publishing in daily
instalments includes "specific times, specific dates, no wriggle room", Mr
Howard will say, a day after his chief lieutenant, Oliver Letwin, promised
smaller government and lower taxes - without yet being specific.

Mr Howard will say: "Everyone will be able to hold us to account, no dodgy facts
and figures, we'll have no place to hide. I'll choose my cabinet because I
expect them to deliver. And if they don't I'll replace them with people who
will." It would be a hostage to fortune if Mr Howard's prospects were better,
although Lord Saatchi, his party co-chairman, said in Bournemouth that, if there
was a snap election this autumn, his private polling suggested there would be a
hung parliament.

But as the Conservative leader put the finishing touches to his speech in the
wake of yesterday's Times/Populus poll which put him in worse shape than the
purged Iain Duncan Smith a year ago, a fresh poll for BBC Newsnight heaped
further gloom on him.

Only 12% of voters believe Mr Howard, now 63, will ever be prime minister, with
even 65% of Tory supporters among the 78% overall doubters. Nearly twice as many
people believe the Lib Dems are a more effective opposition, 42% compared with
22%. Mr Howard's recent anti-war stance over Iraq is widely attributed to mere
point-scoring. The Times poll showed his party slipping back, on 28% to Labour's
35%, barely above the Lib Dems on 25%.

Mr Howard's private polling almost certainly confirms such alarming impressions
and is likely to have prompted today's masochistic admission of past error, as
well as what is billed as a "highly personal section" about the core of his
beliefs. This confessional section will also include detail about the death of
his mother-in-law more than two years ago as a result of a hospital-acquired
infection. "It's a tragedy for thousands of families - including mine," Mr
Howard plans to say.

With senior Tories trumpeting the "right to choose" in public services as the
real road to social justice, one flagship Tory initiative to pave the way for
tax cuts was cast into doubt last night hours after being deployed in a
conference video.

To the delight of Labour, Tim Yeo, shadow transport and environment secretary,
made clear that he would not be bound by a party special review of government
spending by one-time Dome troubleshooter David James which has so far identified
£15bn pounds of savings in government spending. These will eventually be used to
fund tax cuts. Mr Yeo told the environment magazine ENDS Report: "It isn't a
priority for me."

Tories in Bournemouth, page 10

Martin Kettle, page 20

The Editor, page 22

guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              209 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Tories in Bournemouth: Millionaire Sykes turns back on Ukip

BYLINE: Michael White and Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 447 words


A Conservative push to the right, led by John Redwood, appeared to pay dividends
last night with the news that the UK Independence party's biggest financial
supporter was turning his back on the party.

Paul Sykes, the self-made Yorkshireman passionately opposed to Europe, said last
night he would no longer bankroll Ukip because it had decided to humiliate the
Tories at the next election by fielding candidates who could unseat Eurosceptic
MPs.

Leading Tories, including Mr Redwood, have been holding secret talks with Mr
Sykes for weeks.

Mr Redwood yesterday called on Eurosceptics to desert Ukip and attacked their
most high-profile activist, former Labour MP Robert Kilroy-Silk.

"His objective is not to rescue this country from Brussels," he told a fringe
meeting. "His objective is to kill the Tory party. Once a Labour MP, always a
Labour MP."

Mr Sykes said that despite his friendship with Mr Kilroy- Silk the party had
"blown it" by deciding to attempt to kill off the Conservatives.

Mr Sykes, a property developer who made his fortune exporting second-hand buses
and lorries, had been a strong supporter of Mr Kilroy-Silk's ambitions to lead
Ukip. But the former TV presenter's attack on the Tories at the weekend,
combined with the overtures of Mr Redwood, appear to have persuaded him back
into the Tory fold.

However, asked if he would be rejoining the Tories, the multi-millionaire told
the Daily Telegraph: "Not yet".

Mr Redwood earlier identified Europe "above all" as an election issue, but was
twice slapped down by his fellow shadow cabinet member, David Cameron, now in
charge of policy, who said the party needed to concentrate on issues
preoccupying people "in pubs and clubs" and not "wild forays into different
areas".

Mr Redwood said it was "naive and dishonest to say you can simply pull out of
the European Union," and urged partial withdrawal. "Above all, we are going to
win by telling the people the truth on Brussels and Europe. We have the right
policy on that."

But Mr Cameron countered: "We won't win by picking one subject - whether it is
Europe or anything else."

At a conference fringe meeting, organised by the Times, David Davis, shadow home
secretary, predicted that Ukip could win 30 to 50 seats.

"There is no lurch to the right in the Conservative party, but there may be a
shift in public issues that people care about", notably crime and immigration.
"We must get the country to buy its conservatism from the Conservatives," he
said.

"People want their political parties to tackle the broad range of issues that
they care about . . . schools, hospitals, crime, immigration and tax."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Tories in Bournemouth: Letwin: believe me, no tax cuts

BYLINE: Sarah Hall, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 472 words


Oliver Letwin refused to pander to grassroots demands to go into the election
with a promise of tax cuts - because, he admitted, he would not be believed.

The shadow chancellor used his keynote speech at the conference to lay to rest
calls for the party to differentiate itself from Labour by outlining a timetable
for lower taxation.

There would be no point in doing so, he said, because people no longer believed
politicians' "broken promises".

Conceding that tax cuts would prove highly popular, and sections of the media
would call it "courageous", Mr Letwin said: "It wouldn't be courageous at all.
It would be very easy. I'd say it. You'd cheer. We'd all leave, and no one out
there would believe us at all.

"Because there have been too many broken promises on tax, from too many
politicians."

With disarming frankness, he went on: "The sad truth is, when we were in office
we made promises on tax we couldn't keep. And everyone knows what happened when
Tony Blair said he had no plans to increase tax at all and then raised them 66
times by stealth.

"So no more broken promises on tax. Instead of promises, actions. Instead of
words, deeds."

Instead of tax cuts, he said, £15bn could be found by "slimming down fat
government", and his tight spending plans, under which the party has promised to
match Labour expenditure on schools and hos pitals but slow growth on public
spending, would create a simpler and fairer tax system.

Five areas of the tax system thought "manifestly unfair" would be tackled:
council tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty, income tax and national insurance
thresholds, and taxation of savings and pensions.

And he would simplify three viewed as "over-complicated": capital gains tax,
taxation of small businesses, and environmental taxes.

But there was a "moral case for low taxation". In a Centre for Policy Studies
publication released yesterday he said the government had an "awesome moral
responsibility" not to squander taxpayers' money.

"The effort to limit tax is an effort to fulfil the solemn moral obligation that
government takes on when it takes people's money." With tax cuts ruled out, the
Tories will try to make themselves more distinctive today by announcing an
"action on dentistry" plan for patients to pay monthly.

Michael White adds : Oliver Letwin was targeted as a prominent Tory casualty at
the general election yesterday when the United Kingdom Independence party said
it would make an example of him as a backsliding Eurosceptic by replacing him in
Dorset West.

He has a 1,414 majority over the Liberal Democrats and Ukip took 1,590 votes in
the constituency in 1997.

Martin Wood, Ukip's south-west regional organiser, said: "We have formed a brand
new branch in West Dorset for the specific purpose of taking him out."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Redwood leads drive to the right

BYLINE: Michael White and Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 451 words


John Redwood led a Conservative policy push to the right yesterday with a
rallying cry that alarmed some colleagues: the Tories can win iby being
Conservative and being proud of iti.

On the opening day of the party conference, the newly restored

shadow cabinet minister faced David Cameron, one of the bright young Tory hopes.

During the day the platform organised a series of novel conference techniques
designed to cheer theaudience and reconnect with voters o including humorous
soundbite interviews with shadow

ministers on jokey and serious topics as well as sofa-TV conversations involving
delegates and spokesmen.

Beneath the good-humoured and determinedly optimistic surface cross-currents
remained clearly visible with Mr Redwood, Tim Collins and to a lesser extent
David Davis pushing to the right, and

younger colleagues pulling them back towards the centre ground.

Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor and the day's keynote speaker, sought to
strike a consensual note which prefigured Michael Howard's own speech to the
conference today. Armed only with a few bullet points, Mr Letwin improvised a
speech on the tax

pledges he was not going to make yesterday.

iIt wouldn't be courageous, it would be very easy. I'd say it, you'd cheer,
we'll all leave and no one out there would believe us at all,i said Mr Letwin,
acknowledging the new public mood of cynicism. He blamed Labour, but admitted
past Tory failures too.

At another fringe meeting, organised by the Times, Mr Davis, shadow home
secretary, predicted that Ukip could win 30 to 50 seats. iThere is no lurch to
the right in the Conservative party, but there may be a shift in public issues
that people care abouti, notably crime and immigration. iWe must get the country
to buy its

conservatism from the Conservatives,i he said.

Mr Redwood identified Europe iabove alli as an election issue but was twice
slapped down by his fellow shadow cabinet member, David Cameron, now in charge
of policy, who insisted the party

needs to concentrate on issues that preoccupy people iin pubs and clubsi and not
iwild forays into different areasi.

Mr Redwood said it was inaive and dishonest to say you can simply pull out of
the European Unioni and urged partial withdrawal. iAbove all, we are going to
win by telling the people the truth on Brussels and Europe. We have the

right policy on that.i

But Mr Cameron countered: iWe won't win by picking one subject o whether it is
Europe or anything else.i

Tory co-chairman, Liam Fox, another right-winger, accused Labour of being iall
talk and no actioni while appealing to the country's inatural conservatives
looking for leadershipi.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Tories in Bournemouth: Activists may be effusive but gloom envelops senior
ranks: Rousing speeches manage to press the right buttons

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 819 words


As Tory activists sipped afternoon tea outside the conference hall yesterday,
they were greeted by a familiar figure. Iain Duncan Smith, who had suffered an
agonising defenestration only a year ago at the party conference, was now hailed
with warm smiles and effusive handshakes as he walked through the crowd with his
wife Betsy.

"Bring back Duncan Smith," muttered one Tory. "He was the best of the bunch
because at least he knew where we had to be - on the middle ground banging on
about core public services."

In a sign of the gloom at senior levels of the Tory party, the supportive
remarks came from an MP who had rejoiced at his downfall just a year ago. "There
is real concern," declared one Tory who predicted that Labour is on course for a
majority of "100ish" at next year's general election. "We are simply no match
for the Blair propaganda machine. There is profound despair at the carpeting
shadow ministers get every day."

Such grim thoughts are rarely expressed in public and certainly not in the
presence of grassroots Tories who were determined to remain upbeat yesterday. In
the bars and cafes of Bournemouth the mainly elderly activists are attending one
conference where MPs boost their spirits with rousing speeches of how the party
is on a roll.

As darkness falls on the Dorset resort - and the foot soldiers head for bed - a
second conference takes place where MPs and shadow ministers voice their real
thoughts in private. Loyal activists would be horrified by the mutterings which
they believe are concocted by the media, which is blamed for most of the party's
ills.

Stuart Sexton, a loyal servant of the party in Croydon South, spoke for many
when he said: "I saw a BBC journalist who arrived in Bournemouth and immediately
said the mood was depressed at our conference. I shouted at my television set
and said how could she know that when she's just arrived. All I can say is that
I am detecting a very positive attitude."

His upbeat assessment was shared by Elaine Adams, deputy chairwoman of the
Shrewsbury and Atcham association, who believes that the tide is finally
turning. "I am very positive," Mrs Adams said of the battle in her constituency,
which was a rock solid safe Tory seat until 1997. "We really are starting to
turn people round. This time four years ago people were reasonably sanguine
about the Labour government. Now I am finding on the doorstep that people are
really disappointed. We never really got our message across because of the
leadership problems. But we have now resolved that."

Even young Tory activists were talking up the party's prospects. Sam Beaver, 19,
of the Conservative Future group, said: "We are having a hard time in the press.
But when we go out campaigning we get a very positive response. Conservative
Future is the fastest growing political movement in the country."

The buoyant activists found their mood improved in mid morning yesterday when
Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, treated them to a speech which would not have
appeared out of place at the height of William Hague's "core votes strategy" in
the run-up to the last general election.

Dismissing criticism that Michael Howard has lurched to the right, Dr Fox won
loud cheers as he pledged to tackle immigration and resist a European
superstate, and talked up tax cuts. "These are the buttons which get the hall
roaring," one disgruntled MP said. "There is no evidence that these are the
buttons that will get the country roaring."

Such remarks gave a taste of the battle raging on the fringes as Mr Howard em
braces what one MP described as a "core votes strategy lite" in response to
Ukip. Sceptics believe this is guaranteed to turn off voters on the centre
ground.

Nicholas Boles, head of the Portillo Policy Exchange thinktank, who is
contesting the marginal seat of Hove, thought the leadership has achieved the
right balance. "We're not tacking in the direction of Ukip," he said. "Robert
Kilroy-Silk did us a favour by showing his true colours when he said he wants to
kill us."

Mr Boles, who is tiring of the "moderniser" tag always attached to his name,
offered a candid assessment of the Tories. "People fell out of love with us in
the 1990s for good reason," he said. "They then fell in love with Tony Blair in
a way that no politician has ever experienced before. It was a partnership of
passion which has gone sour. Because of the emotions involved people have fallen
completely out of love with the entire political system as they turn their back
on Blair."

This presents a formidable challenge for Mr Howard. "People are fed up with the
high flown vision thing. This means that there can be no soaring rhetoric from
Michael and only modest commitments. We need to treat people like grown ups."

A trip to Ukipland, G2 pages 8-9

Conservative tastes, G2, page 13

guardian.co.uk/politics/ conservatives


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004
                              Correction Appended

G2: Real lives: My trip to Ukipland: There was the human hair-spray, the
perjurer, the MEP who complained that today's women don't clean behind the
fridge, and Clinton's disgraced ex-spin doctor. Tania Gold is mesmerised by the
Ukip party conference

BYLINE: Tania Gold

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1574 words


A Save the Pound bathrobe is walking towards me. Inside it is Edith Bigg, a
tall, grey blur. "Save the pound!" she says to me. "Save the pound!" I am in a
very strange place. The UK Independence Party (Ukip) is holding its annual
conference in Bristol. As I walk past Robert Kilroy-Silk's Bentley, a lone
female protester shouts "Racists!" in my vague direction. I am greeted by a
triumvirate of Staffordshire Ukip members. "We are going to gain control of
national politics in the House of Commons," says a Mr Goode, an engineer
specialising in steel fabrications. "We will bring back Common Sense to our
nation." His friends nod.

Inside, my bag is searched by smiling women "for flour and eggs, my dear". Might
I bake a Ukip cake to hurl at Kilroy's perfect nose? I see facial hair, 1930s
hats, Arran sweaters, angry vicars, fishermen and Jonathan Aitken. If Agatha
Christie had written a political thriller, or if Engelbert Humperdink's fan-club
entered parliament, this is what it would look like. It is, for a grimy
urbanite, very strange indeed.

The party certainly has a theme: two enormous gold pound signs, sliced in two to
accommodate the Ukip logo, are suspended, twinkling, over the stage. Opposite,
basking in their light, are the 1,100 old and middle-aged faces who delivered
seven million leaflets back in June. I also see a very young black girl in the
second row.

Petrina Holdsworth, the party chair, an elegant former barrister on secondment
from a Joanna Trollope novel, is in the spotlight onstage, directing the party
onwards. "We remember June, when Ukip came of age," she says in perfect posh
talk. "We educated the British public. No to more European integration!" My
attention is stolen by Stephen Anderson, the man who pushed the Tories into
fourth place in the Hartlepool byelection. He has mounted the platform and is
addressing the delegates. "Kilroy," he explains, "came to Hartlepool and
literally stopped traffic!"

Chris Leas, a short man who looks like a gangster, mounts the podium. Boy does
he mount it. He is angry. He is very angry. He exclaims that two years ago, "I
walked out of my nice villa in Marbella and I was arrested for being an
international drug smuggler. I was imprisoned for 50 weeks without charge." This
is, he says, thanks to the fascistic Euro police. "I made a vow to see the
relentless juggernaut of Brussels stop before this happens to others in this
great country."

I am confused. My confusion is suddenly washed away by The Man Himself. The
"Kilroy phenomenon" is here. Kilroy-Silk joined the party four months ago, but
speaks like a man who has given it his life. Like a human bottle of hairspray,
upright, golden and faintly poisonous, he begins. "I've been dying to meet you,"
he drawls, as if the assembled ranks of Ukip supporters were a woman he is
trying to seduce. He holds its hand and caresses its wrist. "You panicked the
major parties; you scared them to death. These things are not supposed to
happen." Then he lays a hand on Ukip's crotch. "This success is yours. It's been
a long road for many of us. We can change the face of Britain and we are going
to change it! Our opportunity is today - not tomorrow!" He almost said:
"Tomorrow belongs to me."

Kilroy dedicates 10 minutes to denying that the party is racist, so I decide to
track down the Ukip Black Person I had spotted earlier, one of only three
ethnic-minority members I could find. She is a sweet A-level student from north
London called Jummy Olajide. She is currently doing work experience for Ukip's
deputy leader, Mike Nattrass. Her parents are Nigerian. She featured in the
party political broadcast. I ask her why she joined Ukip. "I agree with their
immigration policy," she says (this is essentially, like the Gucci shop in
Selfridges, one in, one out). Nattrass says, "We've got to go."

I decide to track down the leaders of Ukip, who were pressing the flesh in the
lobby. There is Nigel Farage, MEP, a handsome giggling 40-year-old. He was
Ukip's darling before Kilroy stole his smile; "The leadership was his for the
taking two years ago" I am told. I find Roger Knapman, the leader, fat and
smiling, a former Tory Whip under John Major. There is Godfrey Bloom MEP, whose
infamous command that women clean fridges made a splash, flirtatious and a
little camp. And the gorgeous Petrina - who wants to "send the members back
inspired".

I bump into Jonathan Aitken, who joined Ukip five months ago - "before the Euro
elections," he says pointedly. He tells me that he and Kilroy became MPs on the
same day and have toured the Middle East together. He says he hasn't made up his
mind if he will stand for Ukip in his old constituency of Thanet. "This is a
serious party growing in confidence and support and serious voting power. I
would distance myself from any party that is racist and so would Robert
Kilroy-Silk." I can smell on Aitken the lust to return to parliament. It mingles
with his aftershave.

Finally I find Kilroy. He stands in front of a crowd of admirers and the
television crew that seems to be surgically attached to him. "The Labour party
started with three people," he says. "And things happen quicker these days." How
is his fundraising? "I've got more money promised me than I can spend." He
flashes a Mephistophelean smile.

An excited, murmuring queue had formed at the parliamentary candidates' desk.
Everyone, it seems, wants to enter parliament. They each receive a form, which
requests details of criminal convictions, "anything that might cause
embarrassment were it to be revealed" and signed confirmation that they "have
never been a member of a racist organisation". Ukip had a purge of BNP
infiltrators two years ago and claims to be watchful for Christian
fundamentalists who might sneak in.

I hurry back to the hall for the great debate of the weekend. The party has to
decide whether to contest every seat in the next general election, or to back
off if sitting MPs agree to push their eurosceptic line. Do they want to steal
the Tory crown or just mend it? To much cheering the result is announced: they
will contest every seat. Michael Howard - sweat, baby.

In the pub I encounter Reg Mahrra, an Indian Ukipper . "I want out of Europe,"
he says. "Europe is a disease." He describes himself as "a social animal" who
"knew Barry White once", and adds, "I have mixed with the criminal fra ternity
all my life." He confirms that, like almost everyone else, he wants to stand for
parliament. Nearby is a member with a charismatic moustache called Roy Woodwood.
He rails against the government that "sold us down the canal". He particularly
hates "the tosspot despot Prescott".

Sunday brings us drama. Kilroy has attempted a putsch on the Frost Show. He
wants the leadership and hopes to persuade Roger to retire. What does Roger
think? Does he mind? "When I became leader no one else wanted it," he says
smiling. "I have been elected for four years and I have only served two years
and one day. I intend to serve the remaining year and 364 days. Now everyone
seems to want the job. This is a sign we are a healthy party." Will he accept
Aitken as a parliamentary candidate? "I hope he'll put his name forward to the
appropriate committee and I hope the decision will be taken by those who know
him best."

The perjurer and the hair-spray are not loved here. I take the temperature of
the Kilroy putsch with the party members. Has the chat-show lizard prevailed?
Not yet. The grassroots are angry with their phenomenon, who has disappeared.
"He's only been here five minutes," I'm told. "What about Roger? Roger has done
everything for us. Kilroy must prove himself. He's only a minor celebrity after
all."

Wandering into the press room, I find Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former spin
doctor who quit after being caught in a rumpled bed with a prostitute. He has
been drafted in as a consultant. Sleek and fat, he reminds me of an intelligent
pigeon. He compares British politics to a sinking boat. "There are lots of
people on this boat who want different movies, food and destinations. But we are
the only party that is concerned the boat is sinking."

Outside the churning conference, the protest has swelled to three. "You're as
mad as a box of frogs!" shouts a Ukip member. I return to the hall. The compere
is dragging forward the "unsung heroes" of Ukip. Somebody named A Badger has
been nominated by a Miss Bull. Suddenly, Jummy is on-stage and looking
petrified. "Jummy is rather coloured," says the compere. "This proves we are a
multiracial party." He rubs her hand, and puts an arm around her. "It doesn't
come off."

The conference closes with Knapman, the leader Kilroy wants to oust. "You have
proved you are winners!" Then he quotes Victor Hugo: "Nothing can stop an idea
whose time has come."

I find I have developed a fondness for these fervent amateurs. Last week I was
at the Labour party conference, surrounded by self-important glossy robots.
These people, weird, creepy and bizarre though they are, are real. As I gather
my things and prepare to leave Ukip-land, an angry man is clutching the podium,
railing against the Euro fiend. He is interrupted by the Tannoy. "A gentleman
has lost his ride to Tunbridge Wells," it says. "Can anyone else offer one?" The
man begins to speak again but there is another announcement. "The Ukip Montego,"
it tells us, 'is about to be towed away."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2004

CORRECTION:  Tanya (not Tania) Gold was the author of My trip to Ukipland (G2,
page 8, October 5).

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Comment & Analysis: With the Tories off the map, the centre is up for grabs:
While Blair remains Labour leader, the other parties' chances are slim

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1158 words


The Conservative party is middle England, David Willetts once wrote. It has no
need of focus groups to tell it what middle England is thinking. It merely needs
to know what its own members and their families are thinking.

They were brave words in 1997, when Willetts wrote them. Today, with the party
sinking slowly into the upper 20s in the latest poll, they merely seem sad. The
Tory party at Bournemouth is like a once-great champion golfer who can't
understand why he keeps shooting over 80. The conference is taking place behind
a ring of security suggesting a party of government, but who, other than Robert
Kilroy-Silk, wants to kill anyone in this party any longer?

One question dominates - how can the Tories win again? - but it is in the nature
of a party conference that such a question can never be asked in the hall.
Officially, the conference is preparing for government. "Welcome to Bournemouth,
to this, our last conference in opposition," the party co-chairman Liam Fox
began his speech yesterday. But he didn't believe it either. It was like being
in the Crystal Palace dressing room before a match against Arsenal.

"How can the Tories win again?" is nevertheless the question on most lips. Many
fringe meetings are explicitly or implicitly trying to find an answer. David
Cameron, rising hope of the soft, pragmatic Tories, had a try in a
single-sentence response at a lunchtime event yesterday: "By emphasising the
Conser vative values that the vast majority of the British public share, by
turning them into Conservative policies - and by showing how we would put them
in to action."

That wasn't a bad try. But it was pretty much also what Willetts was saying in
1997 - and Tory fortunes have slumped in the intervening years. The party is
unfocused. It is too fussed about the wrong things - Gibraltar, hunting and
death duties.

For a snapshot of what's wrong, you needed to listen to Fox yesterday. Of all
the problems facing the country and the Tory party, political correctness comes
way down the league. Yet Fox used his keynote speech to complain at length about
police use of the term "group rape" rather than "gang rape". It was like being
trapped against a saloon bar by a man in a sheepskin coat who has had a couple
of gins too many.

But that's just a snapshot. If you want to not just understand the Tories'
current problems but also place them within the big political picture, then arm
yourself with a copy of the YouGov/Daily Telegraph opinion poll of September 27
(a less detailed version also appears in the current issue of the Economist). If
there has been a more informative poll finding in recent times, then I do not
recall it.

The YouGov pollsters asked respondents to give themselves a score along a
left-right axis. If their answer was exactly in the centre, their score was
nought. If they were extreme left, it was minus 100; extreme right was plus 100.

The replies generated a gentle bell curve, with most people situating themselves
somewhere in the centre, and those on the left more likely to be centrists,
while those on the right were more likely to be extreme. The average British
voter, the survey found, was marginally to the left of centre, at minus 2.

Then YouGov asked the voters to give the three main party leaders, their MPs,
Gordon Brown and Kenneth Clarke places on the same scale. They put Tony Blair
just to the right of centre (+4). Charles Kennedy and his Liberal Democrat MPs
were placed to the left (-15). Brown was placed further left still (-22), just
behind Labour MPs (-25). To the right of the mean, Clarke was placed at plus 24.
But the voters thought Michael Howard, along with Tory MPs as a whole, was much
further to the right, at plus 52.

These findings are not revolutionary. But they underscore with rare clarity some
central realities about modern British politics. Blair, in spite of all the
things he has done wrong and all the mistrust in which he is held, is still - by
some distance -the party leader most in touch with most people. Brown is
perceived to be significantly further to the left, well away from the mean and
much closer to Labour MPs, but significantly further from the mass of voters in
the centre than Kennedy, never mind Blair. The implicit difficulties Brown would
face as Labour leader in attracting middle-ground voters are striking.

But it is Howard's position in this spectrum that is the most truly dreadful
right now, especially for a man seeking to be prime minister. The voters see the
Tories as the most extreme of all the parties. While Blair is a mere six points
from the average, Howard is no fewer than 54 away. While Blair is clearly
perceived to be more moderate than his party, Howard is labelled as just as
extreme as his troops. However you cut it, any Tory who currently claims that he
or she speaks for middle England (or middle anywhere) is simply deceiving
themselves.

Intelligent Tories know they cannot continue this way. Cameron yesterday pointed
to some of the things they have to do to begin to get closer to the middle
ground: avoid creating artificial differences with Labour; avoid monomania on
Europe or anything else; concentrate on shared values; be prepared to modernise;
and always acknowledge in policy "that there is a 'we' as well as a 'me'".

But there is a gulf between knowing roughly what to do and having a serious
opportunity to do it. Talking to the modernising Tories in Bournemouth this week
carries many echoes of con versations in Bournemouth two weeks ago with the
modernising Orange Book group of Liberal Democrats. In both parties there is a
recognition, confirmed by the YouGov poll, that while Blair remains at the head
of the Labour party the other parties' electoral chances are much narrower.

This barrier existed before the European elections and the Hartlepool
byelection. But Ukip's successes make it exceptionally hard for Tories who want
to march towards the centre. If Ukip were to poll 5% in every constituency in
the general election, several Tory MPs would face a murderous squeeze. The
shadow home secretary, David Davis, said yesterday that between 30 and 50 Tories
could be at risk. Seats like Taunton, Isle of Wight and Davis's own Haltemprice
and Howden look harder than ever to defend.

This is one dimension of how the 2005 election may now be far more volatile and
unpredictable at constituency level than the national polls can imply. The
combination of Labour's broad but hollow support and the Tories' narrow but
hollow equivalent will benefit not just the Liberal Democrats but Ukip and, in
one or two places, the Greens. The big parliamentary story will continue to be
told in the familiar two- or three-party terms. But in many constituencies, this
could be a four-or even a five-party contest. From Cornwall to Cumberland,
middle England has rarely been more up for grabs.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 5, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Who will be Britain's Gaullists?: This servile subjection to
the US is far from being a Tory tradition

BYLINE: Geoffrey Wheatcroft

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 816 words


After their fourth-place debacle behind Ukip in Hartlepool, the Tories gather in
Bournemouth more hopeless than ever. Tony Blair is disliked by his own party and
distrusted by the electorate, and still the Tories can't lay a glove on him
politically. Their misery is matched by the anger of millions on the left,
appalled by what Blair has done, and yet unable to get rid of him. Many of them
persuade themselves that, bad as Blair is, the Tories would be worse, not least
in terms of servile subjection to the US.

But need that be true? Not only is the Iraq war deeply unpopular with ordinary
Tories across the country, as many MPs privately admit, unquestioning obedience
to US orders is far from a Tory tradition. Over the years the Tories have often
had a better record than Labour of detachment from Washington.

Any Tory illusions about America really should not have survived the Suez
episode. In 1956, Britain, France and Israel went to war on false pretences to
destroy a troublesome Arab dictator (does that have a familiar ring?) before the
Eisenhower administration ruthlessly pulled the rug from under the British and
the French. Washington showed that any idea of a "special relationship" was
thoroughly one-sided.

Later relations between the Tories and America were often more tense than
transatlantic rhetoric suggested. Although Harold Wilson adroitly avoided
committing British troops to Vietnam, he annoyed the Labour party by giving his
tepid verbal endorsement to the war.

But one wonders how many people remember that in 1966 the Tories were told
emphatically that this country should keep out of Vietnam war, by the shadow
defence minister at the time, Enoch Powell. He was anything but reflexively
pro-American, and it's a pity that his healthy scepticism about the US is the
one thing his acolytes have forgotten.

Between 1970 and 1974, Edward Heath tried to turn his party and country away
from America toward Europe. But much more fascinating was his successor,
Margaret Thatcher. She was decidedly less a supporter of "America right or
wrong" than is often supposed, and had several eye-opening experiences.

After the Argentinian invasion of the Falklands, US assistance for its British
ally was far from instant or open-handed. There was already a neo-conservative
cabal in Washington, keener to keep on terms with useful Latin American
dictators than with London. When the US did offer London some help, it was
against the wishes of Jeane Kirkpatrick, Washington's ambassador to the UN.

In 1983, Thatcher was incensed when the US invaded Grenada to suppress a
leftwing coup, and London was not even informed in advance about this assault on
a former British colony.

She did allow the Americans to use air bases in England for a punitive raid on
Libya in 1986. Yet, apart from the Foreign Office and the 70% of the British
people who opposed the action, it was strongly criticised inside her cabinet by
Norman Tebbit, Nigel Lawson and John Biffen, none of them shrinking liberal
violets. Even the prime minister was unenthusiastic. After all, she had said not
long before: "I do not believe in retaliatory strikes that are against
international law." She refused to support Israel when it bombed the PLO in
Tunis, asking what the American reaction would be if she "bombed the Provos in
Dundalk".

That same year, in one of the least known but most remarkable episodes of her
prime ministership, Thatcher gave the US secretary of state, George Shultz, a
tongue lashing, which is recorded in the American NSC archives. Did Yitzhak
Shamir ever intend to negotiate over the West Bank and Jerusalem, she asked, or
did he believe all biblical Israel belonged to him? Israel's claim to be the
only democracy in the Middle East was ruined by the way it "denies basic rights"
to the Palestinians, and Israel was "simply holding the world to ransom". She
angrily told Shultz that the US was the only power which could do anything about
this, but instead it acquiesced in every Israeli action.

April this year provided a stark contrast. Our current prime minister gave his
fawning approval to a deal between President Bush and Ariel Sharon, which tore
up existing American and British policy. It was an unprecedented personal and
national humiliation for Blair - one that Thatcher would never have conceded.

For the Tories this is not just a history lesson. If they do have a future, it
must surely be as a libertarian party at home, and as an Anglo-Gaullist one
abroad. That means healthy scepticism about undemocratic centralism in Europe
but, just as importantly, equal scepticism about American actions, interests and
motives. It would be right, it would be popular - and it would be in Tory
tradition.

Geoffrey Wheatcroft's book The Strange Death of Tory England is published by
Penguin in the new year

wheaty@compuserve.com


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: DAVIS WARNS UKIP VOTE COULD COST 50 SEATS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 239 words


THE SURGE in support for the UK Independence Party could cost the Conservatives
up to 50 seats at the next election, David Davis, the shadow Home Secretary,
warned yesterday.

He said the hardline anti- European party, which forced the Tories into fourth
at last week's Hartlepool by-election, could emulate the performance in 1997 of
its forerunner, the Referendum Party. He told a fringe meeting: "It may be, like
the Referendum Party; they are going to take 30 to 50 seats from us."

Although he emphasised that he was not making a prediction, his comments laid
bare the Tory high command's jitters at the potential impact of UKIP. At
present, the Tories have 165 MPs. To lose a third of that number would take them
to an historic low and would be calamitous for the party's future.

Shadow ministers yesterday launched a series of attacks on UKIP, saying that a
vote for the anti-European Union party would help Labour in through the back
door.

John Redwood, the party's deregulation spokesman, ridiculed UKIP's Robert
Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, saying the ink was "scarcely dry on his
membership card and he is challenging as leader".

He said: "His objective isn't to rescue this country from Brussels; it isn't to
get our democracy. His objective is to kill the Tory Party.

"Once a Labour MP always a Labour MP." Mr Kilroy-Silk was "doing Blair's work,
the federalists' MP", Mr Redwood concluded.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              217 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: TORY MODERNISER WARNS RIGHT-WINGERS NOT TO DROWN
PARTY IN SEARCH FOR BLUE WATER'

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS AND MARIE WOOLF Sir Malcolm Rifkind, left, and John Redwood
at the fringe meeting Tom Pilston

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words


TENSIONS BETWEEN Tory modernisers and traditionalists over election strategy
boiled over yesterday as they agonised about how to respond to the threat from
the United Kingdom Independence Party.

The right-wing shadow cabinet members John Redwood and Dr Liam Fox called for
Conservatives to focus on traditional issues, such as lower taxes, tackling
asylum and winning power back from Brussels.

But David Cameron, the party's head of policy, warned it would be drowned by a
search for "deeper blue water", calling for it to concentrate on the "things
people talk about in pubs and clubs".

The disastrous by-election performance in Hartlepool, where the Tories were
beaten into fourth place by UKIP, provided a gloomy backdrop to the first day of
the party's conference in Bournemouth.

At a fringe meeting, How Do the Conservatives Win This Time?, organised by The
Independent, Mr Redwood warned the party not to be "downcast", arguing that it
should campaign on a platform of "Conservative and proud of it". He said the
Tories should make clear that "we are again the tax- cutting party", pledge to
get a grip on the "complete shambles of our borders" and to wrest back power
from the European Union.

At the same meeting, Mr Cameron urged the party not to lose its sense of
compassion. He said: "If you don't understand the complexities and changing
nature of modern society you are irrelevant in politics, and if you don't
address the modern concerns of a modern country you are dead."

Arguing against "wild forays into other areas", he added: "If we search for
deeper blue water to drown ourselves, no one will be happier than Tony Blair and
the Labour Party."

He was echoed by the former cabinet minister Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who delivered
a bleak assessment of the party's health in the inner cities. "One of the great
problems of our party in the last 10 years is that, in the great urban cities of
Britain, we are hardly represented ... We have to build, rebuild roots in these
great urban metropolises, and that means we have to develop policies relevant to
those cities," he told the fringe meeting,

Dr Fox appealed for a return to core Tory values as he launched an attack on
high taxes and the Government's "soft touch" asylum policy.

The Conservative co-chairman invoked the memory of Margaret Thatcher with a
rallying cry to Tories to create a Britain marked by "more respect, more
discipline and decent values". Dr Fox vowed that a Tory government would stop
Britain being "a soft touch" on asylum. Its plans were not "a lurch to the
right" but an overdue response to the "real anxieties expressed by the British
people," he said.

But speakers all dismissed suggestions that the Party should make greater
efforts to promote Mr Howard as a "celebrity". Mr Redwood said: "People like a
celebrity but they know it can be all pretty shallow.  'They don't want to elect
someone off Pop Idol."

Sir Malcolm agreed, arguing that the Party should concentrate on Mr Howard's
record of getting things done while he was in office.

Mr Cameron won applause at the packed meeting when he said a Conservative
Government would as an early priority call a free vote in Parliament on
reversing any ban on hunting with hounds.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              218 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: DON'T LET THE PARTY DROWN IN BLUE WATER', TORY
MODERNISER WARNS RIGHT-WINGERS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS AND MARIE WOOLF Sir Malcolm Rifkind, left, and John Redwood
at the fringe meeting Tom Pilston

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


TENSIONS BETWEEN Tory modernisers and traditionalists over election strategy
boiled over yesterday as they agonised about how to respond to the threat from
the UK Independence Party.

The right-wing shadow cabinet members John Redwood and Liam Fox called for
Conservatives to focus on traditional issues, such as lower taxes, tackling
asylum and winning power back from Brussels.

But David Cameron, the party's head of policy, warned it would be drowned by a
search for "deeper blue water", calling for it to concentrate on the "things
people talk about in pubs and clubs".

The disastrous by-election performance in Hartlepool, where the Tories were
beaten into fourth place by UKIP, provided a gloomy backdrop to the first day of
the party's conference in Bournemouth.

At a fringe meeting, How Do the Conservatives Win This Time?, organised by The
Independent, Mr Redwood warned the party not to be "downcast", arguing that it
should campaign on a platform of "Conservative and proud of it". He said the
Tories should make clear that "we are again the tax- cutting party", and pledge
to get a grip on the "complete shambles of our borders" and wrest back power
from the European Union.

At the same meeting, Mr Cameron urged the party not to lose its sense of
compassion. He said: "If you don't understand the complexities and changing
nature of modern society you are irrelevant in politics, and if you don't
address the modern concerns of a modern country you are dead."

Arguing against "wild forays into other areas", he added: "If we search for
deeper blue water to drown ourselves, no one will be happier than Tony Blair and
the Labour Party."

He was echoed by the former cabinet minister Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who delivered
a bleak assessment of the party's health in the inner cities. "One of the great
problems of our party in the past 10 years is that, in the great urban cities of
Britain, we are hardly represented ... We have to build, rebuild roots in these
great urban metropolises, and that means we have to develop policies relevant to
those cities," he told the fringe meeting.

Dr Fox appealed for a return to core Tory values as he launched an attack on
high taxes and the Government's "soft-touch" asylum policy.

The Conservative co-chairman invoked the memory of Margaret Thatcher with a
rallying cry to Tories to create a Britain marked by "more respect, more
discipline and decent values". Dr Fox vowed that a Tory government would stop
Britain being "a soft touch" on asylum. Its plans were not "a lurch to the
right" but an overdue response to the "real anxieties expressed by the British
people", he said.

But speakers all dismissed suggestions that the party should make greater
efforts to promote Mr Howard as a "celebrity". Mr Redwood said: "People like a
celebrity but they know it can be all pretty shallow. They don't want to elect
someone off Pop Idol."

Sir Malcolm agreed, arguing that the party should concentrate on Mr Howard's
record of getting things done while he was in office.

Mr Cameron won applause at the packed meeting when he said that a Conservative
government would as an early priority call a free vote in Parliament on
reversing any ban on hunting with hounds.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

CONSERVATIVES IN BOURNEMOUTH: BLOW TO UKIP AS KEY BACKER WITHDRAWS SUPPORT

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 239 words


THE UK Independence Party suffered a major setback last night when its biggest
financial backer withdrew his support.

Paul Sykes, a Yorkshire businessman, said he was taking the step as a result of
the party's plans to stand against the Tories in every constituency at the next
election and its rejection of calls not to challenge Eurosceptic MPs.

Mr Sykes said that he opposed what he perceived as UKIP's attempts to "kill" the
Conservatives at the next election. He expressed support for Tory policies on
Europe.

Mr Sykes has spent nearly pounds 6m on campaigns and donated half of the party's
pounds 2m fighting fund for this year's European elections, which significantly
boosted the profile of the party with a four-fold increase in the number of its
MEPs.

Reports of his decision coincided yesterday with David Davis, the Shadow Home
Secretary, warning that the surge in support for UKIP could cost the
Conservatives up to 50 seats at the next election.

He said that the hardline anti-European party, which forced the Tories into
fourth place at last week's Hartlepool by-election, could emulate the
performance in 1997 of its forerunner, the Referendum Party.

His comments laid bare the Tory high command's jitters at the potential impact
of UKIP. At present the Tories have 165 MPs. To lose a third of that number
would take them to an historic low and would be calamitous for the party's
future.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              220 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words


Aitken is bookies' favourite to take on old chum Howard

On the day Michael Howard will address the Tory conference for his first - and
maybe last - time as leader, there are yet more worries about his slender
majority in Folkestone and Hythe.

Last week, Pandora noted that Howard, near right, had appointed a formidable new
campaign director, Christine Bedier, to protect his 6,000 majority over the Lib
Dems. She will work out of a "special campaigning centre", being set up in the
heart of Folkestone.

Now a threat emerges from the opposite end of the political spectrum. The UK
Independence Party, which had its own conference last weekend, has decided one
of its "big guns" will contest the Kentish seaside seat.

Although the candidate won't officially be announced until the last possible
moment, the bookies' favourite is Jonathan Aitken, above right, whose old
constituency of Thanet South is almost next door.

"We will put up a candidate who will either be famous, or a political
heavyweight, and Jonathan Aitken certainly fits that bill," said a party
spokesman yesterday.

"He's previously talked about standing in Thanet again, but may well also want
to repay Michael Howard for his recent loyalty."

Ominously for Howard, the last time a eurosceptic heavyweight contested
Folkestone was in 1997, when the casino owner John Aspinall polled 4,000 votes
for the Referendum Party. That level of support would virtually guarantee the
Tory leader's defeat.

Cockney horror

CHOPPY WATERS ahead for Martine McCutcheon, left. Her mother, Jenny Tomlin - a
real-life cockney barmaid - has signed what is described as a "six-figure" book
deal with HarperCollins.

Apparently, Mrs Tomlin has written a "warts-and-all memoir", that details
"horrendous abuse" during her childhood at the hands of her father. She was
later the victim of domestic violence, courtesy of McCutcheon's dad, Thomas.

"Jenny gave her story to be published to lay the past to rest and to help
thousands of other women and men come to terms with past physical and sexual
abuse," says her literary agent. "She not only survived, but made her life a
success. Her story will inspire those who read it."

Sienna gets her clause out for Kate

THE ACTRESS Sienna Guillory was on splendid form at the launch of the Raindance
film festival on Thursday.

Discussing her next film, Resident Evil 2, Guillory, left, complained: "In
Hollywood, women hate each other.

"Everyone is so bitchy, because it's all about looking pretty and they don't
want younger actresses coming in and taking their roles," she said.

"You only have to look at what it's done to Kate Beckinsale. She used to be
cool. Now I've heard she's got a clause in her contract saying that she can't be
filmed bending over at more than a 45-degree angle, because her boob implants
slide up onto her collar bone."

Feisty! Over to Beckinsale's agent, Jane Brand. "I do her contracts, and this is
absolutely untrue," she responds. "She has no such clause in her contracts, and
she has categorically not had breast implants."

I'll return to this tomorrow.

Peter's perks

PIDGIN FRENCH aside, Peter Mandelson negotiated yesterday's grilling by the
European Parliament's trade committee with customary smoothness. But before he
can officially become a Commissioner, he'll have to swear an oath known as the
"solemn declaration".

"I undertake solemnly to be completely independent," he will say. "To neither
seek nor take instructions from any government, and to behave with integrity and
discretion as regards the acceptance, after I have ceased office, of certain
appointments or benefits."

In plain English, this means that the (former) Prince of Darkness must promise
neither to have cosy chats with Tony Blair, nor to accept any improper perks.
What happened to the Mandy we know and love?

International Development secretary Hilary Benn rushed to London after his
speech at last week's Labour conference, to attend the launch of his father
Tony's memoir, Dare to be a Daniel.

Alas, when the speeches began, Benn (jnr) - a twinkling star of New Labour -
could have been forgiven for wishing he'd stayed behind.

"I was in Brighton, too, and it's great to be back," said Benn (snr). "A
delegate turned up at conference wearing a T-shirt saying I believe in peace',
and he was arrested by the police and interrogated for three hours. They said
you couldn't wear shirts with political slogans on."

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              221 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

I HAVE MOVED ON, CONFIDENT MANDELSON TELLS MEPS

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Peter Mandelson, European Commissioner for
Trade, in Brussels yesterday Thierry Monasse/AFP/Getty Images

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 620 words


PETER MANDELSON, the incoming European Commissioner for Trade, yesterday told
MEPs he had "moved on" from his life as a henchman to Tony Blair, in an assured
performance at a key confirmation hearing.

Billed as a grilling, the three-hour session often sounded more like a love-in,
as Mr Mandelson stressed his European ideals, commitment to Third World
development and independence from the Labour Government. "I continue to give my
friendship and my political support to the Prime Minister, Tony Blair," he said
before adding that he offered his main allegiance to the new European Commission
president, Jose Manuel Barroso.

Mr Mandelson said: "I have moved on from being a British parliamentarian, from
being a New Labour politician. I have moved on from being a supporter, in the
active day-to-day sense, of Tony Blair." The former Blairite cabinet minister
batted off a handful of hostile questions, and appeared at ease - apart from
when making a brief introductory remark in less-than-fluent French.

Although the Green MEP Caroline Lucas described his performance as "chameleon-
like", there was praise from socialist and Liberal Democrat MEPs, who can reject
the entire team, but not individual commissioners. But the former Labour spin
doctor's ability to rebut attacks from the right and soothe leftish MEPs'
sensitivities on trade, development and globalisation saw him through what could
have been a sticky afternoon.

The most direct challenge came from the UK Independence Party's Nigel Farage,
who said Mr Mandelson's nomination was "very good news for the no' campaign in
the European constitution". The incoming commissioner pledged to campaign for a
"yes" vote and responded with a taunt for Eurosceptics, reminding them that "the
definition of a sceptic is someone open to persuasion".

Most MEPs eschewed discussion of his colourful political past and the two
cabinet resignations were not raised. When the Tory MEP Nirj Deva remarked that
Mr Mandelson had a track record for modernising Labour and making it more like
the Conservative Party, he responded: "If the Conservative Party was rather more
like New Labour, it would be more electorally successful than it is at the
moment." There were few hostages to fortune as he ducked a question on the
British budget rebate, which the European Commission wants to share out among
more countries.

The proposal "would sharply reduce the UK rebate", Mr Mandelson said, adding
that it was important that "people in Britain feel that the financial deal that
is done is not only fair but is seen to be fair". On trade, social and economic
policy, the pitch was to the left. Quoting a Tony Blair soundbite, he declared:
"I believe in a market economy, I don't believe in a market society". He
continued the theme in relation to the Third World, arguing for "fair trade" and
"social justice".

Pressed by Ms Lucas, Mr Mandelson said he favoured giving poor countries the
right in World Trade Organisation negotiations to shield "sensitive and
economically vulnerable sectors". But he rowed back from sharp criticism of the
Common Agricultural Policy, which he argued recently was dumping food on the
Third World.

About to take up the post of the EU's chief trade negotiator, he was wary of yet
more farm reform and there was a firm defence of the WTO which, he said, ought
to be strengthened with a parliamentary assembly attached to it and be superior
to other multilateral institutions "that ride roughshod over the interests of
poorer countries".

He stressed his belief in the transatlantic partnership but warned Washington
that he would fight for European interests if the US took it to the WTO over
subsidies to Airbus.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              222 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

I AM NOW A EUROPEAN, PETER TELLS HIS NEW FRIENDS

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Peter Mandelson, European Commissioner for
Trade, in Brussels yesterday Thierry Monasse/AFP/Getty Images

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 632 words


PETER MANDELSON, the incoming European Commissioner for Trade, yesterday told
MEPs he had "moved on" from his life as a henchman to Tony Blair, in an assured
performance at a key confirmation hearing.

Billed as a grilling, the three-hour session often sounded more like a love-in,
as Mr Mandelson stressed his European ideals, commitment to Third World
development and independence from the Labour Government. "I continue to give my
friendship and my political support to the Prime Minister, Tony Blair," he said
before adding that he offered his main allegiance to the new European Commission
president, Jose Manuel Barroso.

Mr Mandelson said: "I have moved on from being a British parliamentarian, from
being a New Labour politician. I have moved on from being a supporter, in the
active day-to-day sense, of Tony Blair." He added: "I am a European Commission
man ... and I don't think I will be found wanting." The former Blairite cabinet
minister batted off a handful of hostile questions, and appeared at ease - apart
from when making a brief introductory remark in less-than-fluent French.

Although the Green MEP Caroline Lucas described his performance as chameleon-
like, there was praise from socialist and Liberal Democrat MEPs, who can reject
the entire team, but not individual commissioners. But the former Labour spin
doctor's ability to rebut attacks from the right and soothe leftish MEPs'
sensitivities on trade, development and globalisation saw him through what could
have been a sticky afternoon.

The most direct challenge came from the UK Independence Party's Nigel Farage,
who said Mr Mandelson's nomination was "very good news for the no' campaign in
the European constitution". The incoming commissioner pledged to actively
campaign for a "yes" vote and responded with a taunt for Eurosceptics, reminding
them that "the definition of a sceptic is someone open to persuasion".

Most MEPs eschewed discussion of his colourful political past and the two
cabinet resignations were not raised. When the Tory MEP Nirj Deva remarked that
Mr Mandelson had a track record for modernising Labour and making it more like
the Conservative Party, he responded: "If the Conservative Party was rather more
like New Labour, it would be more electorally successful."

There were few hostages to fortune as he ducked a question on the British budget
rebate, which the European Commission wants to share out among more countries.
The proposal "would sharply reduce the UK rebate", Mr Mandelson said, adding
that it was important that "people in Britain feel that the financial deal that
is done is not only fair but is seen to be fair".

On trade, social and economic policy, the pitch was to the left. Quoting a Tony
Blair soundbite, he declared: "I believe in a market economy, I don't believe in
a market society." He continued the theme in relation to the Third World,
arguing for fair trade and social justice.

Pressed by Ms Lucas, Mr Mandelson said he favoured giving poor countries the
right in World Trade Organisation negotiations to shield "sensitive and
economically vulnerable sectors". But he rowed back from sharp criticism of the
Common Agricultural Policy, which he argued recently was dumping food on the
Third World.

About to take up the post of the EU's chief trade negotiator, he was wary of yet
more farm reform and there was a firm defence of the WTO which, he said, ought
to be strengthened with a parliamentary assembly attached to it and be superior
to other multilateral institutions "that ride roughshod over the interests of
poorer countries".

He stressed his belief in the transatlantic partnership but warned Washington
that he would fight for European interests if the US took it to the WTO over
subsidies to Airbus.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              223 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY CONFERENCE: EVEN IN OPPOSITION, THE TORIES WIELD HUGE
INFLUENCE WITHIN THE LABOUR GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1192 words


Another Conservative conference has opened with the party languishing in the
polls, apparently further behind than under Iain Duncan Smith. Tony Blair has
now faced four Conservative leaders and it is quite possible he will face a
fifth. A talking point in Bournemouth is precisely when Michael Howard would
step down, immediately after an election defeat or following the referendum on
the European Constitution.

This is an astonishing reverse for a political party, so shocking it ceases to
shock. A party that won elections effortlessly in the 1980s now contemplates the
possibility of another leadership contest in the aftermath of a third calamitous
defeat. As far as the next general election is concerned, some of its extreme
pessimists assume they are in a battle with the Liberal Democrats for second
place, as Labour was when it faced the SDP/ Liberal Alliance in 1983 and 1987.
Some go further, arguing that we are witnessing the strange death of
Conservative England, similar to the disappearance of Liberal England in the
early decades of the 20th century.

These pessimists - or optimists depending on your point of view - ignore several
factors that will at some point bring about a recovery for the Conservatives.
Their theory underestimates the Conservatives' traditional ability to adapt to
changing circumstances. Even Thatcherism was partly a pragmatic response to the
failures of the 1970s. Nor do the Conservatives face an alternative party on the
right with a broad appeal. In the early decades of the 20th century, the
Liberals were almost wiped out by the Labour Party representing a growing
working class. The United Kingdom Independence Party is a single-issue party
that will fade away before long, as all single-issue parties do. Members of such
minority parties enjoy their brief moment in the sun when they seem more
significant than they really are. Soon they return to political obscurity. In
the 1980s, Labour faced a much more intimidating threat from the SDP/Liberal
Alliance, a political force that included formidable former Cabinet ministers.

The assertion that Conservative England is dying would be more potent if England
had become unrecognisable from the period when the Conservatives used to win
elections. Yet the most powerful newspapers are still on the right and some
national broadcasters are inadvertently influenced by their tone. A timid Labour
Government is frightened of raising taxes or adopting a more pro-European tone.
Even after seven years in power, New Labour insiders are under pressure to
devise "radical" policies for the next manifesto that do not have any cost
implications. On the international front, the Prime Minister formed a close
relationship with a Republican President partly to prove that no Conservative
would outdo his Atlanticist zeal.

As they flail around in opposition, the Conservatives still wield huge
influence. If they had opposed the war against Iraq, I suspect that Mr Blair
would have been much warier of supporting the conflict with such passionate
enthusiasm. Conversely, if the Conservatives had supported the Euro Mr Blair
might have dared to hold a referendum. Meanwhile, the tensions at the top of the
Government relate partly to the degree that ministers should pay homage to their
Thatcherite inheritance. The Tories should be preening themselves rather than
falling apart. Even in their decline they constrain and influence the actions of
a Prime Minister who was brought up politically in the late 1970s and 1980s when
he faced a triumphant Conservative Party.

That is part of the Conservatives' problem now. They are not very good at
opposition. Having spent 18 years in power they are not used to the techniques
of opposing a government. The reverse is also true. After 18 years in
opposition, the Labour Government is still learning how to rule. In the
Conservatives' case the scale of their two election defeats in 1997 and 2001
heightens their problems. Some of their big political personalities lost their
seats, while others gave up, exhausted and demoralised, all political ambition
spent.

Those that remain active fall for every political trick devised by Tony Blair.
In his recent book, the former adviser to Mr Blair, Derek Scott, confirms that
policies are devised in Government partly to wrong-foot the Conservatives,
pushing them further to the right. At some point Mr Blair's determined
triangulation, a superficial form of policy-making, will cause a crisis for the
centre left, but for now the Tories are the ones who are wrong-footed, moving
further to the right whenever the Prime Minister clicks his fingers.

After seven years of fruitless opposition they should realise that this does not
work, striding assertively to the margins. When he first became leader Mr Howard
worried ministers as he reached out to the broader electorate. Mr Blair relaxed
when the Conservative leader appeared to follow the same route as the one taken
by his predecessor but one, William Hague. It was Mr Hague who in his early days
donned a baseball cap and visited Notting Hill Carnival, symbols of a new
approach. When the polls did not move in his favour he panicked, got a crew-cut,
swung to the right and lost the election by a landslide.

Senior ministers and Liberal Democrats regard Mr Howard's recent reshuffle as a
defining moment. John Bercow, a leading moderniser, was sacked. John Redwood was
brought back. Mr Bercow made a fleeting appearance in Bournemouth yesterday,
speaking at a fringe meeting in which he argued that the Conservative Party
should at least match Labour's spending commitments on international
development. Mr Bercow is not in fashion in the Bournemouth conference, but his
views resonate elsewhere. Some senior Liberal Democrats and Labour politicians
have recently expressed their admiration for him.

Evidently, Conservative activists are more worried by the rise of UKIP than the
threat posed by Labour or the Liberal Democrats. At yesterday's packed
Independent fringe meeting the rise of UKIP was raised more than any other
issue. The newest recruit to the Shadow Cabinet, John Redwood, got the biggest
cheer by suggesting that Britain would be on the margins of the EU under a
Conservative government. The former foreign secretary Sir Malcolm Rifkind was
less evangelical, arguing it would take a "long time" for a Tory government to
renegotiate all the existing EU treaties. Europe is tormenting the Conservatives
once more, only this time it is a relatively new political party rather than
divisions within their ranks that is troubling them. Indeed, just as the
Conservatives more or less unite over their impractical European policies,
another party comes along threatening to split their vote.

The Conservatives still face a less daunting task than the one undertaken by
Neil Kinnock in the 1980s. British politics, or English politics, will never be
defined by a battle between Labour and the Liberal Democrats, two parties on the
centre left. Conservative England is alive and kicking. All it lacks is a
vibrant party to represent it.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              224 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

LETTER: PATRIOTIC POUND

BYLINE: JOHN WHEAVER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 75 words


Sir: Does UKIP think its "pounds " emblem is British? Did it become a symbol of
Britishness when the Italians gave it up for the euro, or 100 years earlier when
they decimalised their "pounds ,s,d" (lire, soldi and denari; 12 denari to the
soldo and 20 soldi to the lira)? But then some people even think inches and
ounces have become patriotically British embracing, it seems, the Italian
abbreviation "oz".

JOHN WHEAVER

Milton Keynes

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              225 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

LETWIN: WE WON'T WIN;
 HE BACKS BLAIR FOR THIRD TERM

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words

HIGHLIGHT: FLAT: Letwin at conference yesterday


BLUNDERING Tory Oliver Letwin yesterday scored a spectacular own goal by
admitting Labour would win the next election.

The Shadow Chancellor attacked the Government's economic record but kept
referring to "Labour's third term".

Mr Letwin hit out at Tony Blair's plans to cut civil service jobs and red tape
as a "sham" and said: "It means Labour's third term tax rises."

He delivered a bizarre, hand-wringing speech without notes at the start of the
Tory party conference in Bournemouth. And even his punchlines fell flat.

Mr Letwin said: "The Prime Minister hasn't a clue what's going on in the
Treasury. And taxpayers were not even getting value for money."

And he claimed there would be pounds 2.7billion to "save our regiments" but
failed to point out the Tories are already committed to pounds 20billion of
cuts.

Mr Letwin also said: "We are the Party of Margaret Thatcher, who gave people the
right to own their own homes, and gave Britain back her freedom and her
security."

And he hit out at Labour promises on tax but admitted the Tories had not stuck
to their own tax pledges.

He said: "There have been too many broken promises on tax from too many
politicians.

"When we were in office we made promises on tax we could not keep. And everybody
knows what happened when Tony Blair promised that he had no plans to increase
taxes at all - and then raised taxes 66 times by stealth. So no more broken
promises on tax."

Afterwards a senior Tory said: "He just doesn't do jokes well and he definitely
shouldn't be talking about a Labour third term as if it is in the bag."

Other top Tories admitted they faced a tough challenge from the Liberal
Democrats and the UK Independence Party at the next election.

Theresa May, Shadow Minister for the Family, said: "We must acknowledge that in
urban areas our position is but a shadow of our former strength.

"We still have much to do to make ourselves the first-choice opposition, let
alone win them."

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis believes they could lose 50 seats to the UKIP
in a repeat of the Referendum Party's wins in 1997.

Tory Party joint chairman Dr Liam Fox tried to rally support slamming Mr Blair a
"lame duck Prime Minister".

He added: "This is not the nanny state - that makes it sound too cuddly. This is
the intruder state, which is eroding our historic liberties, strangling our
self-reliance and suffocating our freedoms." But he admitted voters had
forgotten what the Tories stood for because, "we have stopped telling them".

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              226 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP DROPPED BY PAUL SYKES

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


THE millionaire backer of UKIP dropped the party last night.

Property Tycoon Paul Sykes, who has donated more than pounds 1.4million, said
the anti-Europe party had "blown it" after Robert Kilroy-Silk said he wanted to
lead it and "kill" the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              227 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 5, 2004

UKIP BACKER PULLS CASH PLUG

BYLINE: David Wooding

LENGTH: 228 words


THE millionaire backer of anti-EU party UKIP last night pulled the plug on
future funding.

Paul Sykes, 61, who has pumped Pounds 1.4million into the party, did his U turn
after secret talks with Tory high command.

The move is a potentially fatal blow to UKIP, which pushed the Conservatives
into fourth place in last week's Hartlepool by-election. Mr Sykes, who is worth
an estimated Pounds 54million, backed UKIP after vowing to spend "every last
penny I have got" to stop Britain being swallowed up by Europe.

His cash support helped the party win 12 seats in the Euro Parliament last June.

But last night a source close to the retail parks boss said: "He's come to the
conclusion his money is paying to let the Euro federalists in by the back door.

"His support for UKIP is

splitting the Tory vote and letting Labour, the Lib Dems and other federalists
win vital seats."

The tycoon was delighted at the return to the shadow cabinet of John Redwood.
The Tory red tape terminator welcomed Mr Sykes's decision after announcing plans
to cut Labour and EU regulations.

He said the party would pass a "great deregulation bill". He added: "It is
Gordon Brown's Pounds 30,000million of regulations that have strangled 700,000
jobs."

He also blasted speed cameras and pension and fishing policies.

Tory Conference - Pages 8 and 9


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              228 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 5, 2004

MEDICINE MAN

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 274 words


A TOUCH of sun and some bracing sea air and the sick patient perks up a bit.

The Tories certainly look as if they've had a tonic.

It's far too soon to predict a recovery, but the outlook is hopeful.

All the right buttons were pressed in Bournemouth, led by a stirring speech from
Liam Fox.

He promised the Tories would never surrender their red, white and blue colours
to what he called "the dangerous fringe" of politics.

Does he mean the obvious targets of UKIP and the BNP - or closer to home, the
Lib Dems?

Fox hammered home the messages The Sun has wanted to hear on filthy hospitals,
NHS bureaucracy, education, soft sentences, speed cameras, asylum and defence
cuts.

His attack on the intrusion of the State on individual freedom was back to solid
Tory principles.

Oliver Letwin showed welcome passion when he made the moral case for lower
taxation.

He highlighted areas key to Sun readers, like council tax, stamp duty, income
tax thresholds, savings, pensions and inheritance tax.

But still we wait for details. There is no flesh on the Tory bones yet.

We heartily agree with him that the country wants no more broken promises on
tax.

But the way to achieve that is not to refuse to make promises at all.

Why wait another two weeks before the first pledge of a tax cut?

At this rate, the election will be over - and lost - before the Tory manifesto
is finished.

Today Michael Howard will try to answer our readers' demands for the Tories to
offer them a credible alternative to Labour or the extremist Lib Dems.

We need strong medicine from him. Or the patient could flatline.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              229 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 5, 2004

TRUST ME

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: POORLY TORIES START WARMING UP; TORIES AT BRIGHTON

LENGTH: 584 words


Howard pledges a pact with the people: NO spin, NO lies and NO broken promises

TOUGH-talking Michael Howard will today promise NEVER to lie to the nation - and
urge voters: "Trust me".

The Tory leader will pledge a new era of politics free from spin and fibs.

And he will promise to SACK any Tory minister who fails to deliver a pledge on
time.

Mr Howard will distance himself from Labour's culture of spin and deceit.

Today's address to the Tory conference in Bournemouth will be his first to the
party faithful since being crowned leader.

He will tell them: "We will only promise what we can deliver. What we start, we
will follow through.

"We will give people clear measures against which we can be judged. What we'll
do, when we'll do it. Specific times, specific dates.

"No wiggle room. Everyone will be able to hold us to account.

"No dodgy facts and figures. We'll have no place to hide.

"If my Cabinet doesn't deliver, I'll replace them with people who will. People
are fed up with talk. They want action." Mr Howard has already accused Tony
Blair of lies over the war in Iraq.

Today he will step up his attack by condemning Labour for shattering voters'
trust in politicians.

He will say: "People are fed up with politics because politicians have let them
down.

"In the real world, if you say you're going to do something, you do it.

"If you screw up, you can lose your job. It's called accountability. But
politicians seem to live in a different world. A world where promises are
dropped just as casually as they're made. A world where there are no penalties
for failure."

Mr Howard will admit the Tories are partly to blame for destroying trust thanks
to former Prime Minister John Major's tax rises in the 1990s.

He will say: "All politicians have made promises they have failed to keep. In
1992 we promised to cut taxes year on year.

"What happened? We put them up."

Mr Howard will slam Labour's failure to deliver their pledges on schools and
hospitals. The Tory supremo will also promise an all-out attack on hospital
superbugs, which killed his own mother-in-law.

And he will delight the party grassroots with a pledge to bring back classroom
discipline in schools.

Parents will get choice on health and education. And taxpayers will get value
for money for the billions they hand over to the Treasury, he will say.

Mr Howard will tell the conference: "Choice and competition raise standards in
every field of human activity. Schools and hospitals are no different."

The leader has deliberately ruled out concrete promises to cut taxes. But Shadow
Chancellor Oliver Letwin (left) yesterday vowed to slash EIGHT taxes - if
possible.

Death duty, council tax, national insurance and property levies will all be
lowered if the economy allows it.

The party's high command insists it would be wrong to make pledges they could
not deliver in government.

Cheer

Mr Letwin told the conference: "People think it would be courageous if I
promised to cut taxes.

"It wouldn't be courageous, it would be very easy.

"I'd say it. You'd cheer. We'd all leave and no one would believe us at all.

Because there have been too many broken promises on tax from too many
politicians.

"No more broken promises on tax. Instead of promises - actions."

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis warned a fringe meeting that the UK
Independence Party challenge could cost the Tories up to 50 seats in the House
of Commons.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              230 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

The rebel yell: if you wont feel my pain, I'll inflict some hurt until you do

BYLINE: Michael Gove

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1017 words


IN 1979 the public agreed with the Tories that Labour wasn't working. The
problem, for both Labour and the Conservatives, in 2004, is that the public
believe that politics isn't working.

For several elections now, turnout has been depressed, at a level well below
that which prevailed in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. When people do vote there is
a growing tendency to support single-issue parties whose principal appeal lies
in rejection of the Westminster system. In the recent Birmingham Hodge Hill and
Leicester South by-elections, Respect, the Trotskyist anti-war party, mounted an
impressive showing. In the European elections and, of course, in the Hartlepool
by-election, the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) proved to be an
effective vehicle for popular anger with the major parties and their record in
office of collusion with, or acquiescence towards, European integration. Neither
Respect nor UKIP can form the next government. But that is part of their appeal.

By voting for them, you signal your disgust with the type of compromises that
power inevitably forces on those who wield it.

Of course, the best performers in recent contests are the Liberal Democrats.

Their successes have brought greater scrutiny of their policy platform and with
it exposure of their inherent contradictions. Their Treasury team try to act as
economic liberals, emphasising the case for free markets and competition in
healthcare, while the Lib Dem environment spokesman proposes new regulations and
restrictions on individual choice, proposing taxes on everything from 4x4s to
budget flights. But for many voters this incoherence doesn't matter, because
their support for the Liberal Democrats isn't an endorsement of specific
policies but the assertion of an attitude, a rebel yell in the face of the
political establishment.

The Lib Dems' success in attracting votes from both former Labour and potential
Tory supporters defies the established political wisdom that a party cannot
simultaneously outflank the Government to the Left and remain a possible home
for discontented voters on the Right. But many of those voting for the Lib Dems
aren't thinking in terms of Left or Right, they are simply rejecting Labour and
Tory because they see them as the representatives of the new and old
Establishment.

Sadly, for an increasing number of British voters, a rejection of established
politics goes beyond a refusal to vote for the major parties. A variety of
groups now clearly feel that since Westminster isn't listening to their cries of
pain, it's time to inflict a little hurt themselves. Whether it's
Fathers4Justice, the Ledbury Hunt or anti-war radicals, a willingness to engage
in direct action unites individuals who, at other times, would be candidates
only for a quiet life.

Given the comprehensively low opinion in which I fear politics is now held, my
own decision to forsake journalism to try win election as a Conservative MP
might strike the reader as about as sensible now as dressing up in a Batman
costume and scaling the exterior of Buckingham Palace. Both now involve putting
yourself directly in the firing line.

It is, however, precisely because politics is held in such low esteem that I
want to stand for election. Not because I'm determined to get my hands on power.
But because I want to give it away.

The sense of disconnection that many people feel towards the political
establishment is a direct consequence of the lack of control voters now have
over the areas for which politicians are supposed to be responsible. In those
spheres of life in which politicians have got out of the way, from budget
flights to commercial television, control lies in our hands, with a simple click
giving instant effect to our various wishes. But in those huge areas in which
governments take responsibility on themselves, and increasing sums out of our
pockets, such as policing, schools and hospitals, our wishes are treated as just
one factor among many which may, just may, be given due consideration.

And the closer one gets to the political ground, the more profound is the sense
of powerlessness. As a parliamentary candidate in Surrey, I've been trying to
help people whose quality of life has been blighted by traveller encampments
established in defiance of the planning laws, who have been campaigning against
inappropriately sited mobile phone masts and whose public space is being
encroached on by insensitive development. In every case the people elected to
give effect to local wishes, the councillors, have been rendered increasingly
powerless. The Human Rights Act has given judges the power to overrule local
authorities trying to uphold the rights of established residents, and the new
Compulsory Purchase and Planning Act has given central government's agencies the
power to countermand local councils' decisions.

Democracy cannot function when votes are divorced from power. Accountability is
the protein of politics; the more you have, the stronger your system gets. But
we have just been through seven lean years, during which power has become ever
less accountable, and the result has been a profound loss of trust in politics.

The only answer is a fundamental change in how politics is delivered, with a
devolution of power downwards. Power can be exercised by us directly through the
ballot box, by giving elected councillors, mayors, police chiefs and judges
power to give effect to local communities' wishes. Or power can be dispersed
through a redistribution of economic muscle, with individuals enabled to choose
better healthcare or schools from competing suppliers. Power can even be
exercised regularly, and directly, through referendums or recall votes for
failing public figures, as happened in California.

But, for democracy's sake, power cannot be kept any longer within the hands of
our rulers. In the past seven years the Labour Party have done to our political
system what its forebears did to our economic health in the 1970s -it has been
pushed to breaking point.

michael.gove@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

You can trust me, says Tory leader

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 689 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will today pitch for the trust of the British people with a
promise to sack any minister who fails to meet the pledges made by an incoming
Tory government.

In his first conference speech as leader, Mr Howard will call for a new era of
accountability in politics. Conservative ministers would have a timetable for
action and no "wiggle room".

But the Tory leader's fightback is undermined today by a new poll suggesting
that only 12 per cent of the public believe he will become prime minister and a
ferocious attack on his 11-month stewardship of the Tory party from a senior
aide to Iain Duncan-Smith, his predecessor.

Paul Baverstock, the former Tory director of strategic communications, says in
an article in The Times that although Mr Howard was initially successful in
"motivating his sales force" he has signally failed to win any new customers,
and in fact has lost some.

Nearly a year after the departure of Mr Duncan Smith, "it all seems to have gone
terribly wrong", he says. He points to "disastrous" by-election results, the
"much ridiculed flip-flop" by Mr Howard over Iraq and the July reshuffle in
which two figures with "moderate middle appeal", John Bercow and Damian Green,
were removed while John Redwood and Nicholas Soames, with as much "moderate
middle appeal as Wagner's Ring cycle", were promoted.

Mr Howard's party has gone backwards in the polls despite the loss of trust in
Labour and Tony Blair. Mr Howard, he says, will not make progress unless he
develops a cogent strat-egy to win the moderate middle and a compelling
narrative to persuade voters, and until he picks a fresh, young and moderate
team to sell it.

Mr Baverstock, now Euro-pean director of an international public relations
agency after being dismissed when Mr Howard took over, adds that "this summer's
barrage of seemingly unrelated tactical initiatives targeted at the political
junkies of the Westminster village and delivered in wonkish language simply
won't get the job done".

Mr Baverstock's call for Mr Howard to appeal to the moderate middle reflected
the differences evident at the conference between those politicians such as Tim
Yeo telling him to stick to the centre ground and others such as John Redwood
calling for the Tories to fight the election on tax, immigration and Europe.

Mr Howard will tell the conference that his promise on accountability "will be
to put us on the line in a way that no government has ever been before.Everyone
will be able to hold us to account."

He will add: "I'll choose my Cabinet because I expect them to deliver. And if
they don't I'll replace them with people who will." Mr Howard will say that
people are fed up with politicians. "In the real world if you say you're going
to do something you do it. And if you screw up you can lose your job. It's
called accountability.

"But politicians seem to live in a different world. A world where promises are
dropped just as casually as they are made. A world where there are no penalties
for failure."

He will say that his priority will be to get to grips with crime, the drugs
scourge and the immigration system.

An ICM poll for BBC Newsnight found that 78 per cent of all those asked and 65
per cent of Tory supporters believed that Mr Howard would never be prime
minister.

Shadow ministers will today set out their priorities for action in the first
weeks of a Tory government. Andrew Lansley, the Shadow Health Secretary, will
promise that he will abolish central targets imposed on hospitals, prepare plans
for patients to have access to information on performance and infection rates,
and introduce legislation to free the NHS from Whitehall controls.

Tim Collins, Shadow Education Secretary, will promise to give head teachers the
power to expel disruptive pupils, begin the abolition of restrictions which stop
good schools expanding and introduce a Bill for parents to choose the best
school for their children.

Tory conference, pages 6-8 UKIP cash blow, page 16 Leading article, page 19 Paul
Baverstock, page 20 Michael Gove, page 20 Anthony Howard, T2, page 2


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

Forecast is wet and dry over next four years

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 748 words


LESS than a year since Michael Howard took over as Tory leader from Iain Duncan
Smith there are already signs of fresh manoeuvring in the race to succeed him
after the next election.

Although this is one of the few party conferences in recent years that is not
being debilitated by speculation over the leadership, much of the conversation
in Bournemouth yesterday was about what will happen if or, as most MPs privately
admit, when the party suffers another defeat.

Yesterday's Times/Populus opinion poll showed that ratings for the party and Mr
Howard had slipped badly recently, undermining the leadership's pre-conference
boasts that they were on course to win more than 100 seats from Labour. But Mr
Howard is being urged by aides and several members of his Shadow Cabinet to stay
on after the next election, whatever the result, for at least two years. One
said: "We must break the cycle of losing an election, dumping our leader and
picking someone like IDS at the start of a parliament only to find out he is
crap."

They also fear that the different factions within the party, which now resembles
the old "wet" and "dry" groups of the 1980s, are working out ways of blaming the
other for a third successive Labour victory. "The danger is that a leadership
contest fought in the aftermath of another defeat will rip us apart," one Tory
figure said.

At the Times fringe meeting yesterday, David Davis, a likely right-wing
candidate for the succession, pointed out that he had stepped aside for Mr
Howard last year to preserve party unity. Although the Shadow Home Secretary
insisted that his leadership ambitions were "in the freezer", he hinted that
this could change after the next election, which "at the moment" was his sole
priority.

Mr Davis also emphasised the need to combat the rise of the UK Independence
Party which, he said, could cost the Conservatives up to 50 seats at the next
election.

He is among the leading lights of the "dry" faction, which also includes the
likes of John Redwood, who was recently brought back into the Shadow Cabinet,
much to the dismay of party modernisers.

The right-wing group wants hardline policies on Europe and immigration as well
as a firm promise of tax cuts.

The "wets" prefer to fight the next election from a more centrist platform,
improving public services, and are resisting making what they believe would be
irresponsible promises on tax.

Liam Fox, the party co-chairman, is probably Mr Davis's chief rival as the
standard bearer for the "dries" in any leadership contest. He used his
conference speech yesterday to evoke the spirit of Margaret Thatcher and set out
his own personal credo of conservatism.

Both Mr Davis and Dr Fox will have a high profile at the conference fringe this
week where each of them will be making three speeches. This level of activity is
dwarfed, however, by Andrew Lansley, the Shadow Health Secretary, who has in
recent years reinvented himself as a moderniser in the image of Michael
Portillo.

He is scheduled to make eight fringe speeches this week including no fewer than
five yesterday on the eve of his key-note conference address today.

Mr Lansley is swiftly becoming the most likely leadership candidate from the
left should Mr Howard quit after the next election. Yesterday his office
circulated an e-mail inviting political journalists to drinks after the party
conference, saying: "He is conscious that many of you have not met him and hopes
this will provide an ideal opportunity."

But for all his energy and charm, Mr Lansley could yet be overshadowed by Sir
Malcolm Rifkind, the former Foreign Secretary who is set to return to Parliament
after the next election as MP for Kensington and Chelsea, a seat being vacated
by Mr Portillo.

Sir Malcolm is also a highly visible presence on the conference fringe this year
with four major appearances scheduled including events for the left-leaning
conservative mainstream and Bow Group events.

At another meeting yesterday he condemned the party's dismal showing at last
weeks Hartlepool by-election. He said: "It was a lousy result, a disgraceful
result and one which should worry us considerably."

Alongside Sir Malcolm at yesterday's Independent newspaper fringe meeting was
David Cameron, who, together with George Osborne, is seen as a youthful
alternative leadership candidate should Mr Howard give them time to develop by
delaying his departure after the next election.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

UKIP protest vote 'counter-productive'

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 277 words


DAVID DAVIS, the Shadow Home Secretary, gave warning yesterday that voting for
the UK Independence Party would be counter-productive as it would damage the
Conservative Party.

Speaking at a fringe meeting held by The Times at the party's annual conference
in Bournemouth, Mr Davis sketched out his party's plans to win the general
election.

He said it would be "ludicrous" to vote for the UKIP's assault on the
Conservative vote, comparing it to the rise of Sir James Goldsmith's Referendum
Party in 1997.

Although the Referendum Party won no seats, some believed they damaged the
Conservatives enough to be responsible for some of Labour's landslide win.

"It's possible they could do what the Referendum Party did in 1997, and take 30
to 50 seats away from us," Mr Davis told the meeting. "That then allowed the
Labour party to go through and negotiate the Amsterdam treaty with very little
opposition, which is the exact opposite intention of the party; it's ludicrous,"
he said.

His comments were rejected by Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP, who argued that although
the Referendum Party mostly took votes from the Conservatives, the UKIP drew
from all parties. "The only people who are going to kill the Conservative Party
is the Conservative Party themselves," said Mr Farage.

Divisions have opened up within the Conservatives about whether they should
toughen up or soften their image in advance of the general election. Mr Davis
said that the Tories' recent focus on crime and immigration was a response to a
change in the public's priorities. "There is no lurch to the right in the Tory
party," he said.

Sykes threat, page 16


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

Kilroy's ego loses UKIP its £1 million sponsor

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow and Helen Nugent

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 353 words


THE UK Independence Party is losing its biggest financial backer.

Paul Sykes, a multi-millionaire Yorkshire businessman, is understood to be
withdrawing his support for UKIP after it announced plans to contest all Tory
held seats at the general election, whatever the MP's views on the European
Union. UKIP had "blown it", Mr Sykes said.

At the weekend Robert Kilroy-Silk, the party's East Midlands MEP, told its
conference that UKIP should "kill" the dying Tory party, not give it the kiss of
life. Mr Sykes felt that the broadcaster and former Labour MP had put ego before
the UKIP's aim of withdrawal from the EU.

UKIP relies heavily on Mr Sykes's support. The businessman contributed half of
its £2 million fighting fund for this year's European Parliament elections, in
which it strengthened its position as a political force.

He has spent nearly £6 million on campaigns backing Eurosceptic politicians over
the past decade. UKIP had been relying on Mr Sykes to help fund its general
election campaign next year. Now Michael Howard has said that the Conservatives
would block an EU constitution and seek to renegotiate Britain's role in the
Union.

Speaking on BBC Two's Newsnight last night Mr Sykes said: "There are better
policies coming out of the Conservative Party than I have heard for many years.

They are waking up to the idea that it's better to make your own laws than have
them coming out of Brussels."

Tory MPs with slim majorities fear that UKIP's decision to fight every
constituency could unseat dozens of them. David Davis, the Shadow Home
Secretary, said yesterday that a big vote for UKIP would be counterproductive as
it would damage the Conservative Party.

Nigel Farage, a UKIP MEP for Southeast England, said last night that Mr Sykes
had told him "that if the party presses ahead with these actions, he won't
support them". Mr Farage said: "I've worked closely with Paul for four years,
during which he's done a tremendous amount for UKIP. I'm very sad he was upset
by what was said on Saturday. I hope there is some reconsideration of the
position."


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

Mandelson: I'll put Europe first

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news; 29

LENGTH: 1045 words


PETER MANDELSON, Britain's most controversial politician and the architect of
new Labour, said yesterday that he had moved on from British politics and
pledged his allegiance to the European Union.

Mr Mandelson, who had to resign twice from the British Cabinet, used his first
public appearance in Brussels since being chosen as the next European Trade
Commissioner to emphasise that he was beginning a new chapter in his life.

Questioned by MEPs for three hours in a confirmation hearing, Mr Mandelson
delivered a performance that won him accolades even from political opponents,
who described him as a "class act".

Mr Mandelson's appointment to what is arguably the most powerful job in world
trade had caused concern in Brussels because of his controversial past, and his
close links to Tony Blair.

As a commissioner he will be obliged to consider only the interests of Europe.

Asked by David Martin, the Labour MEP, where his loyalties lay, Mr Mandelson
replied: "I continue to give my personal friendship and my political support to
the Prime Minister, Tony Blair. You would not expect me to say otherwise."

But he said that his allegiance now was to the president-designate of the
European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso. "I have moved on from being a British
parliamentarian. I have moved on from being a new Labour politician. I have
moved on from being the supporter in an active day-to-day sense of Tony Blair."

Just in case the MEPs, European diplomats and journalists gathered in the
auditorium to listen to him were left in any doubt, he reiterated the point a
few moments later.

"I have moved on. I am not a House of Commons man, I am a European Parliament
man.

I am not a British Labour government man, I am a European Commission man. I know
where my interests, loyalties, allegiances and energies will be devoted."

He signalled his new allegiance by giving only a half-hearted commitment to
defending Britain's budget rebate, which saves the UK about £4 billion a year on
EU contributions.

Before Mr Mandelson had finished speaking, Jonathan Evans, the leader of the
Conservative MEPs, issued a press release declaring: "Mr Mandelson has failed to
stand up for Britain and British taxpayers."

The only sour note from the floor came from Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK
Independence Party in the European Parliament, who said he hoped Mr Mandelson
would campaign for the European constitution in Britain's forthcoming
referendum, because it would be a gift to the "No" campaign.

Mr Mandelson confirmed he would get involved in Britain's referendum campaign,
declaring: "The definition of a sceptic is someone who is open to persuasion, so
let the process of persuasion start."

The auditorium of Eurocrats erupted in a table-thumping round of applause.

Mr Mandelson -the only new commissioner to speak just one language -began his
15-minute opening statement by reading two sentences of French in a painful
English accent, explaining he would prefer to speak in English.

Laying out his true European credentials, and paying tribute to the founders of
the EU, he declared: "I do not share the half-in, half-out attitude to the EU of
some in Britain. Britain's place is in Europe. To have a part in this European
construction I regard as a great privilege and public service."

He then faced a series of rapid-fire questions from MEPs, with one minute for
each question and two minutes for each answer, with two large digital timers
menacing the speakers.

Mr Mandelson offered something to everyone, stressing his belief in global free
trade and deregulation, but not at the expense of development in poorer
countries whoshould not be forced to open up their markets too fast.

"If I didn't believe open trade reduced poverty in the world, I wouldn't be an
advocate of it. I don't believe for developing countries that protection is the
way forward, but you have to be careful," he said.

He also criticised the EU's Common Agricultural Policy, saying he would help
push through reforms aimed at getting rid of subsidies within 15 years. But he
insisted that there was no point in lifting subsidies unilaterally.

Asked whether he was a "Briton who just looks across the Atlantic to the US", he
said that he was a "true European", but stressed the importance of the
transatlantic relationship.

"The biggest problems in the world -economic and security -rely on Europe and
the US working in partnership."

After three hours of questioning, he was asked if he wanted to make a final
comment. He let out a sigh, asking: "Is it always like this?" He then concluded:
"If I didn't realise before, I know now how big the job is; bigger than any
ministerial job I have had before."

*

..BUT HE KEEPS HIS FINANCES TO HIMSELF

LIKE every new commissioner, Peter Mandelson has had to provide details of his
outside and financial activities.

And like most of his colleagues, Mr Mandelson provided the minimum of
information on his financial situation in his two-page declaration.

However, Neelie Kroes, the Dutchwoman nominated for the competition portfolio,
tabled a 14-page document on her past activities and Margot Wallstrom, the
Swedish senior vice-president, gave the value not just of her three properties,
but also of her personal Volvo. Jacques Barrot, the French member, itemised the
value of his shares in Averne Developpement Holding as 3.5 million euro.

Mr Mandelson gave the following information:

Financial interests:

Shares: 2 per cent of shares in CHI Advertising Agency (value not disclosed)

Other stock: None

Real estate assets: House in Hartlepool. Flat in London (no values disclosed)
Posts in foundations or similar bodies held over the past ten years:

UK chairman, UK-Japan 21st century group

Member of the Independent media group international advisory board

Patron of UK Business Council for Sustainable Energy

Chairman of Hartlepool Community Partnership

Posts currently held:

Non-executive chairman, Policy Network

President of Hartlepool Football Club

Posts currently held in educational institutions:

President, Central School of Speech & Drama, London

Honorary Fellow, St Catherine's College, Oxford


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              236 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 4, 2004

Kilroy tries to grab leadership of UKIP

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 501 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk has launched a shameless bid for the leadership of the UK
Independence Party urging incumbent Roger Knapman to 'accept the inevitable' and
stand down.

The MEP and former TV presenter said yesterday that the 'vast majority' of the
party now want him as leader.

He claimed Mr Knapman had assured him he would stand down after the European
elections in June.

'But then of course he got a massive election result and probably he liked the
size of his new train set,' he said.

The bitter public battle between the two men is threatening to tear the
fledgling Rightwing party apart.

Since his election in June, Mr Kilroy- Silk has missed no opportunity to
establish himself as UKIP's most highprofile figure.

Under the party's rules, leaders are elected for a fixed four-year term, which
means no election can take place for another two years.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said it is up to party members to make their views known so that
he could be installed in time for the next General Election, expected next
spring.

'I owe it to the party and the party owes it to itself to make a choice of what
it wants to do,' he told BBC's Breakfast with Frost programme. 'What everybody
tells me they want is for the current leader to accept the inevitable and to
stand down. We have a very short period of time between now and the General
Election we need to start now.' Mr Kilroy-Silk said only he could build on
UKIP's success at last week's Hartlepool byelection, in which the party beat the
Tories into fourth place. 'I think I could turn it into a very effective
electoral fighting force,' he added.

Mr Knapman said later that he has no intention of resigning. 'I am here to
serve,' he added. 'I have done my best for the party and I am happy with my
record. We are on a high and have no problems.

Robert has so much to offer the party. I am sure he will see we have to pull
together.' Mr Knapman dismissed Mr Kilroy-Silk's suggestion of a deal over the
party leadership.

'There was no deal,' he said.

'Even if there was, there is no mechanism to change leader in the middle of a
term.

'We love media stars he is a great asset to us and will continue to be a great
asset.' Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, left the BBC in January after a row
over his views on Arabs detailed in a newspaper column.

His daytime talk show had been suspended for a week after publication of the
column, in which he called Arabs 'suicide bombers, limb amputators and women
repressors'.

Mr Kilroy-Silk claimed that his article was meant to attack Arab regimes rather
than smear all Arabs.

He agreed to resign despite claiming he had received a huge mailbag supporting
his right to express his views.

The 61-year-old was elected Labour MP for Ormskirk in 1974. In 1983, the seat
became Knowsley North, which he represented until 1986.

He was a shadow home affairs minister under Neil Kinnock and went on to present
his morning TV show Kilroy for 17 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              237 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 4, 2004

HOWARD'S Pounds 20BN TEMPTER ON TAX

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 4; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 955 words



MICHAEL Howard last night held out the prospect of a raft of tax cuts that could
hand up to Pounds 20billion back to voters if the Tories return to power.

The party began rolling out their tax-cutting plans as delegates gathered for
what looks certain to be the last party conference before the election.

A welter of opinion polls showed them trailing behind Labour but party
strategists were buoyed by private surveys showing that, in Labour's 130 most
marginal seats, the Conservatives are four points ahead.

That would be a big enough swing to sweep out more than 100 Labour MPs and
produce a hung Parliament.

Mr Howard is also convinced that voters will be alienated by the spectacle of
Labour Ministers jockeying for the leadership following Tony Blair's ill-judged
pledge to serve another term.

The conference will be told that work on reducing or even scrapping a panoply of
taxes will dominate the party's election planning.

Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin will set out the 'moral case' for low taxes by
announcing a review of eight major areas, including income tax, inheritance tax
and council tax.

He has been asked to produce options for using the estimated Pounds 20billion in
savings identified by the party's review of Government waste, being carried out
by top businessman James.

Mr Letwin will say: 'The public is awakening to the immorality of fat taxes to
pay for fat government. For us, thinning down fat government is not an option,
it is a matter of trust a moral necessity.

'On the first day of a Conservative government we will freeze Civil Service
recruitment. In the first week we will sweep away controls and give local
government the room to breathe again.

'In the first month, I will deliver a Budget which implements the James Review
to slim down bloated bureaucracy, a Budget which sets Britain on a path to a
lower tax economy.' Mr Howard remains wary of announcing any specific proposals
so far ahead of a General Election campaign for fear of giving Gordon Brown a
tactical advantage.

But he is desperate to counter accusations that the Tories are not being robust
enough on tax. They accuse the Chancellor of presiding over 66 stealth tax
increases, but have yet to say what they will do to reverse them.

The Shadow Cabinet is divided between those such as Lord Saatchi, the party
co-chairman, and John Redwood, the deregulation spokesman, who want to make
explicit tax cut commitments, and Mr Letwin and Mr Howard, who are arguing
caution.

Mr Letwin's unequivocal message in favour of a 'simpler and fairer' tax system,
combined with assurances that Mr Howard is 'deadly serious' about a tax-cutting
administration, are intended to burnish their tax-cutting credentials.

Mr Howard explained yesterday: 'We don't yet have a list of priorities because
we need to know exactly the position we're in at the time of the next election
before we say things about specifics.

'We are clear about the direction. We have to have a fairer and a simpler tax
system.

Speaking on ITV's Dimbleby Programme, Mr Howard insisted: 'I'm not going to make
specific promises about specific taxes until and unless I absolutely know I can
deliver them, and I won't do that because, you're right, there have been too
many broken promises on tax and I'm not going to make any others.' He admitted
that the last Tory government had misled the public on tax.

Mr Howard believes it could be fatal to repeat the mistake by making promises to
reduce taxes, only to find once he gets into office that he cannot afford to
keep them.

The Tories will also use the conference to stress their belief in
accountability.

They will set out an ambitious 'timetable for action' the conference slogan
explaining what the first weeks and months of a Howard government could
accomplish. Mr Howard said crime was his first priority. The problem was 'out of
control'.

He added: 'We are going to be setting out a timetable for action this week.

'We are not only going to tell people what we are going to do, but tell people
exactly when we are going to do it.

'We are going to make ourselves accountable to the British people in a way no
party has ever done before, and in particular people are looking to us for a
lead on crime.' Senior Tories tried to play down the significance of the party's
humiliating fourth place, behind the UK Independence Party, in last week's
Hartlepool by-election.

'I don't think we are anything like dead on our feet,' Mr Letwin said, while Mr
Howard insisted they did not need a miracle to win.

He challenged Mr Blair to a U.S.style televised debate once the General Election
is under way. 'I think the people of our country ought to see the leaders of the
major parties debating against each other in the way they do in America,' Mr
Howard said.

Comment Page 12 b.brogan@dailymail.co.uk

TONY Blair will never be able to take the country to war again because the
people will not trust him to be telling the truth, Michael Howard said
yesterday.

The Tory leader, who last week called the Prime Minister a 'liar' over Iraq,
said Mr Blair would face a credibility crisis.

He told the BBC's Sir David Frost it was not a charge he was making lightly 'but
if you look at the intelligence Tony Blair was given, and if you look at the way
in which he presented that intelligence to the country, how can there be any
doubt?' Mr Howard went on: 'We live in a very, very dangerous and uncertain
world, none of us knows what might lie around the corner and it's essential that
we have a Prime Minister who, if he is called upon once again to ask the nation
to make the sacrifices that come with war, is trusted.'

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DETERMINED: MICHAEL HOWARD AND HIS WIFE SANDRA ARRIVING IN BOURNEMOUTH
YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              238 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 4, 2004

Key policies could win them votes

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words


THERE was a boost for the Tories last night with a poll that showed floating
voters could be swayed by their key policies tax breaks and curbs on
immigration.

The YouGov survey asked people which policies were most likely to make them vote
Tory. Curbing immigration came top with 47 per cent, while 37 percent said they
want 'firm and unambiguous' promises to cut taxes.

Other priorities would be linking pension increases to earnings, not prices;
raising the threshold for inheritance tax to Pounds 1million; and putting 40,000
more police on the beat.

But the survey, for the Daily Telegraph, showed that overturning a foxhunting
ban would not be a vote winner. Only 3 per cent of the floating voters said it
would encourage them to back Mr Howard.

While the poll suggested that the Tories could have the right policies, it also
emphasised the size of the task ahead of Mr Howard.

Only 11 per cent said they thought he was providing strong and effective
leadership-while 65 per cent said his party was not ready for government.

Another poll put the Tories at their lowest point since Mr Howard took over
nearly a year ago.

According to the Populus survey for the Times, Labour is on 35 per cent, with
the Tories on 28 per cent, the LibDems on 25 per cent and UKIP on 5 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              239 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 4, 2004

Last chance for Tories to tell us what they're for!

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 842 words



DESPITE all the bad times the Conservative Party has had in the last decade or
so, it has never been in such despair as it is today.

Its fourth place in Hartlepool last Thursday the party's worst by-election
result since 1918 is but one of the symptoms of its seemingly incurable malaise.

Just under a year ago the party thought that changing its leader would improve
its standing with the electorate. It now stands lower in the polls and is facing
a threat to its core support from the buoyant United Kingdom Independence Party
(UKIP).

Its challenge this week is not to convince anyone that it can win the next
election for that is a pipe-dream but to convince the millions fed up with Tony
Blair and Labour that the Tory Party can, at last, be an effective opposition.

To this end the Shadow Chancellor, Oliver Letwin, will make what he calls the
'moral case' for low taxation in a speech today.

He will outline specific areas such as the council tax, stamp duty, inheritance
tax and the taxation of pensions where he believes the current system is unfair.

There will, however, be no promise to cut these or any other taxes. The word is
that the Tories will wait until Gordon Brown delivers his pre-election Budget
next March before coming up with specific proposals.

Yet even before Mr Letwin's speech, his critics are (with some justification)
saying that the strategy is wrong, and typical of the timidity with which the
Tories embark on their battle for power.

Since the Hartlepool result, all the party's leading lights have, for once, been
agreed on one thing: that the party has no 'message'.

The public simply don't know what the Tories stand for. With a general election
campaign perhaps due to get under way in six months' time, that is staggering.

Yesterday, political commentators were briefed that the ' message' of the day
was about the need for lower taxation. However, on his arrival at the
conference, Michael Howard told waiting journalists that the 'message' was, in
fact, the fight against crime.

Nothing could have exemplified more perfectly the confusion and dislocation that
are ravaging what used to be the party organisation.

The prevailing view among his Shadow Cabinet colleagues is that Dr Liam Fox, the
party's joint chairman and front man, has been a disaster, and is going further
and further out of his depth. Mr Howard needs to take a grip and follow his own
instincts rather than those of a clique of outoftouch, predominantly young and
metropolitan advisers.

These people have advised him to ignore the party's core vote and appeal to
middle-of-the road voters. As a result, the core vote now votes UKIP, if it
votes at all.

The party's flawed strategy of avoiding issues such as immigration that might
make it appear 'nasty' or uncaring has shut it off from the mainstream concerns
of most of the electorate.If the Tories are to achieve anything this week, they
must make the public believe they have a coherent plan.

There certainly is a moral case for tax cuts and voters want to know how they
will be freed to keep more of what they earn and spend it, or save it, as they
wish.

Mr Howard's big problem, however, is Europe. His party is reluctant to talk
about it, recognising that its obsession with the issue made it seem irrelevant
in 2001.

However, the next election is not the last one: and in 2001, UKIP were not a
factor. Next time, many Tories will have a UKIP candidate up against them,
advocating withdrawal from the EU. If the Tories believe in staying in the EU
they had better start saying why, and on what terms.

The present refusal to engage in the debate is making the party look absurd.

UKIP probably can't win a single seat in a general election, but they could take
enough votes off sitting Tory MPs and give their seats to a Liberal Democrat.

THE Tories ought also to use their conference the last showcase for their
policies before the election to spell out compelling ideas on the immigration
crisis, reform of the public services, and where exactly they stand on Iraq.

Unlike last year there are, at least, no calls to find a new leader.

However, the problem persists of a party that refuses to be led, that is
terrified of spelling out its convictions, and that is still divided and
obsessed with what focus groups think of it.

Although the Government is hated, and the question of trustworthiness
surrounding the Prime Minister is significant, there is still no public mood to
remove Labour from office.

This is mainly because people still feel affluent although rising mortgage rates
and a housing slump may soon change that. If the economy starts to falter, that
will provide the Tories with a chance to claw back some ground.

They will do so, though, only if they can be seen to stand for clear principles.
If they cannot at least make a start on that this week, then those who wish to
attend the next party conference of the official opposition may well have to
join the LibDems.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              240 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 4, 2004

KILROY MAKES HIS MOVE

BYLINE: by GAVIN GORDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 156 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk yesterday urged the UK Independence Party members to
overthrow leader Roger Knapman - and install him instead.

The UKIP MEP and former daytime TV presenter said the "vast majority" of the
party now wanted him as their leader.

He accused Dr Knapman of reneging on private assurances he would stand aside
after the Euro elections in June.

But, with no leadership election for two years, he said it was up to members to
make it clear if they wanted to see him as leader for the General Election,
expected in May.

He said: "Everybody tells me they want the current leader to accept the
inevitable and to stand down.

That is the only way it can happen.

"Indeed, during last June's elections, the leader told me and others that he
would step down after the election. But then, of course, he got a massive result
and probably liked the sight of his new train set.

Now he has changed his mind."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              241 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 4, 2004

HOWARD'S EVEN MORE UNPOPULAR THAN IDS!; HEADS MUST ROLL

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 256 words


MICHAEL HOWARD is even more unpopular than former Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith.

On the eve of the party conference, the Conservative leader was dealt a massive
blow by opinion polls after the Hartlepool by-election humiliation.

But Mr Howard hopes to rally the doomladen Tories by making a war on thugs the
centre of his offensive on Labour.

He will promise a double-edged attack on crime and taxation in a desperate
attempt to lift the spirits of the faithful.

The Tories will pledge to scrap "unfair taxes" to try to win back voters.
Arriving in Bournemouth for the conference, Mr Howard said: "People are looking
to us for a lead on taxes and on crime, which is out of control."

But party strategists fear many fed-up Tory voters are turning to Robert
KilroySilk's UK Independence Party.

They are desperate to raise morale after the Tories came fourth behind UKIP in
last week's Hartlepool by-election, their worst result since World War Two.

Now under the conference slogan A Timetable for Action they plan to show how and
when a future Tory Government could achieve its policies.

Mr Howard wants to contrast his party with Prime Minister Tony Blair who he has
accused of "lying".

Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin will kick off the conference today.

He will pledge a massive shake up of council tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty,
income tax, National Insurance and pensions and savings taxes.

He will promise taxpayers "something they have not had for the last seven years
- value for money."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              242 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 4, 2004

LEADERS OF A RAT PACK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 186 words


WHO'D lead a political party?

The Prime Minister had one bout of surgery last week and now it looks like he'll
need another.

To remove all the knives sticking out of his back.

Tony Blair's announcement he'll step down during the next Parliament has brought
the wannabes into the open.

There's power-obsessed Gordon Brown. There's Alan Milburn, who feels he's spent
more than enough time with his family.

P eter Hain, Hilary Benn and David Miliband are all possibles, too.

The knives are also out for Tory leader Michael Howard. He's suffered a "f***ing
awful" by-election drubbing and is now less popular than charisma-free Iain
Duncan-Smith.

Even leading the tiny UK Independence Party - triumphant over the Tories in
Hartlepool - is dangerous.

Yesterday their most famous member, Robert Kilroy-Silk, demanded leader Roger
Knapman be replaced by a true man of vision.

Namely, Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy has had to face an even tougher opponent - he's
had to quit booze and fags.

They should try a more popular job.

Like being traffic wardens.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              243 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

'Cut taxes and we'll vote Tory' YouGov poll: Floating voters send clear message
to Howard at start of make or break week for the party

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 786 words

FIRM election pledges to cut taxes and control the number of immigrants would
help the Conservatives to win the backing of floating voters, a YouGov poll for
The Daily Telegraph says today.

The poll, on the opening day of the Tory party conference in Bournemouth,
suggests that the battle for swing voters, who will decide the outcome of the
election expected next May, is wide open.

It will provide reassurance for Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, who
said yesterday that his party could win the election despite coming fourth after
the UK Independence Party in last Thursday's Hartlepool by-election.

YouGov asked floating voters which policies were most likely to persuade them to
vote Tory. Curbing immigration came first with 47 per cent; 37 per cent said
they wanted a "firm and unambiguous" promise to cut taxes.

Other attractions would be linking future increases in the state pension to
earnings, not prices; raising the threshold for inheritance tax to pounds 1
million; and putting 40,000 more police on the beat.

But promising to reverse Labour's ban on foxhunting is unlikely to be a big
electoral asset for the Tories. Only three per cent of floating voters said it
would encourage them to back Mr Howard.

The survey underlines the uphill task that Mr Howard faces in persuading voters
that the Tories can win. Only 11 per cent think he is providing strong and
effective leadership, while 65 per cent say the Conservatives are not ready for
government.

Even in his Folkestone and Hythe constituency only 53 per cent of the voters
think he is doing a good job, an ICM poll for the Daily Mirror says. Almost a
third, 31 per cent, say they are dissatisfied.

The poll findings are likely to intensify a fierce debate among Tories over
whether they should fight the election in the centre or concentrate on shoring
up their core vote with stronger policies on tax, Europe and law and order.

Mr Howard, who will make his first conference speech as leader tomorrow, denied
that he was shifting the party to the Right to try to outflank UKIP. He also
rejected suggestions that it would take a "miracle" for the Tories to win.
Interviewed on BBC Television's Breakfast with Frost, he said polls showed that
90 per cent of people thought immigration and asylum were out of control.

He said his party was committed to imposing an annual limit on the number of
immigrants and asylum seekers, with a points system for people who wanted to
come to work here.

In a speech to party agents last night, Mr Howard said there had been a 20,000
increase in membership in the past year and a good performance in June's local
elections, with 300 new councillors and control of 14 additional councils.

"We have every reason to be confident about the future," he said. "We have
everything to play for.

"The choice before the British people is a clear one: there is the Labour way -
more talk, more division and a lame duck Prime Minister; or there is the
Conservative way - accountable government, policies to make Britain more free
and more secure and strong leadership united behind a noble task, to make
Britain a better place for all its citizens."

Oliver Letwin, the shadow Chancellor, will portray the Tories today as a low tax
party by outlining five "unfair" taxes that he would like to cut or reform:
council tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty, income tax and National Insurance
thresholds, as well as the taxation of savings and pensions.

Firm pledges will not be made until close to the election when more is known
about the state of the nation's finances.

Mr Letwin will tell the conference that there have been "too many broken
promises on tax from too many politicians". The Conservatives would make
"thinning down fat government" and avoiding further tax rises planned by Labour
a "moral necessity".

Liam Fox, the co-chairman of the party, will tell the conference that the Tories
will "get a grip" on asylum and stop the country being regarded as a soft touch.

"It is not a lurch to the Right but an overdue response to the real anxieties
expressed by the British people," he will say.

Labour claimed that Mr Howard, like his predecessors William Hague and Iain
Duncan Smith, was being "driven by desperation to retreat ever further to the
Right". But there were signs that the Conservatives' decision to highlight what
they said were 66 tax rises since Labour came to power had struck a raw nerve
with Gordon Brown.

Breaking away from a meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington,
the Chancellor attacked "irresponsible" Conservative economic policies.

He said that, as had been proved in the early 1990s, "the Tories cannot be
trusted on tax and public services".

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              244 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

'Tories need to recapture their self-belief'

BYLINE: BY ALICE THOMSON

SECTION: News Pg. 05

LENGTH: 1652 words

WHENEVER the Tory strategists feel down, they concentrate on the door of No 10.
Lord Saatchi, the Conservative Party chairman, encourages them to think about
walking through it at the beginning of a new Tory government. "It always makes
us feel better," he says.

After talking to 50 Tories, from elder statesmen to secretaries, MPs to
speechwriters, to ask how they can regain power they are still unsure why they
are not surging ahead in the polls.

It is nearly a year since Michael Howard became Tony Blair's fourth challenger,
and for the first time in years they thought they had picked the right man.
Something of the night had turned into something for the Right. The donors
backed him, the backbenchers respected him and the bright young things wanted to
work for him.

Everything seemed stacked against the Government. The war in Iraq, the death of
David Kelly, the Hutton report, tuition fees, council tax hikes and Labour
in-fighting.

Yet in the 12 months since the last Tory conference the polls have barely moved
while the Liberal Democrats are making gains. "It's not a case of whether we can
win the next election or the one after that, it's whether we'll ever make a
credible party again," says one former shadow cabinet minister.

The Tories have tried everything. They have gone from big tent to small sleeping
bag, kicked out the old guard, brought back John Redwood. They have concentrated
on health and education, only to switch to immigration and Europe when the UK
Independence Party threatened. Some MPs have taken umbrage at being called
"bedblockers"; the young Turks say, "Stop calling us the Notting Hill set".

"At least with Iain Duncan Smith we were all united in wanting to get rid of
him," says one backbencher.

The Tories made 74 announcements in August on everything from speed humps to
fishing licences - no one could accuse them of laziness. Instead they were told
they were too pushy.

Their big idea - choice - was nicked by an ungrateful Prime Minister so they
turned to their next trump card, cutting inheritance tax and stamp duty.

Only they couldn't firm it up. They kept searching for the big one while coming
fourth in the Hartlepool by-election. A former minister said: "Michael Howard is
a very nice man but he's a lawyer not a leader, he prefers briefs to ideas."

Maurice Saatchi, the Tory co-chairman, has heard the complaints and is still
calm and upbeat. He may yet be their trump card.

"The polls are actually very good. We know that we need to win 164 target seats
to get a majority of one. Our polls show us that we already have 113 of our 130
target Labour seats so we are on track," he says. "Hartlepool is irrelevant."

But nationwide the Tories are not making headway. "Both Michael Howard and I
know why, so we are not fretting," he says. "The country is disillusioned with
Tony Blair but they've become very cynical. They've decided we are all as bad as
each other so there's no point in voting."

His answer is the conference which starts today. "This is our big idea, we're
going to try to prove that when Michael says something he means it, that
politicians are not all liars. We've had a leader who promised the end of the
rainbow, Michael will be the opposite. He's not a dreamer, he's a doer."

David Cameron, the shadow cabinet minister in charge of the manifesto, says:
"People are fed up with politicians saying they have a big idea when they
haven't. Instead of talking about a better transport system for the 21st
century, we are going to say, 'These are the 10 roads that need help'."

They need some themes. "People fell in love with Tony Blair, now he's chucked
them and it's going to take them a bit of time to trust any politician again,"
he says. "So we've got to take it slowly and mean what we say."

The leadership is determined it is not going to be drawn into a battle between
the Left and the Right, tax cuts, Europe or the war. But it has its work cut
out.

"Tax cuts is how to win the election," says Ruth Lea, the director for the
Centre for Policy Studies. "They have got to appear brave not frightened. People
really resent their money being badly spent and they are not capitalising on
it."

And what about Europe? According to one of Mr Howard's advisers Europe is not
the big issue. "Michael Howard has used the word re-negotiation, John Redwood is
in the shadow cabinet, there's not much more we can do about UKIP," she says.

But potential defectors to UKIP disagree. Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who resigned
the Tory whip recently, says: "Mr Howard calls us cranks and I wish we were, but
at least if we lose them the next election they will take us seriously the time
after that."

Jonathan Aitken, the former minister, was at the UKIP conference this week, and
is considering standing for the party. "UKIP now has more members in South
Thanet than the Tories," he says. "We have a message, they don't. They are still
an inward-looking club, not an outward-looking party."

The grandees are remaining loyal. "Howard is not a lightweight like IDS," says
one of Margaret Thatcher's cabinet ministers. "We are winning back more local
government seats but it would have been much easier if we had opposed the war.
Now we just look flakey on it."

Even Mr Howard's inner team are divided on this issue. "Every time Howard
mentions the war it gets us into trouble," says one. "But we can't shut him up
on it."

Tom Strathclyde, the leader of the House of Lords, sums it up. "Labour keeps
shooting itself in the foot over Iraq, we don't need to too." Nor does he think
the Tories need to say much on hunting. "Hunting rarely comes up on the
doorsteps," he said. "Anyone who believes in it passionately knows who to vote
for."

After Europe and the war, the other potential split in the Tories appears to be
between the young advisers and the older backbenchers. Younger Tories have
accused their elders of not pulling their weight. "Bloody cheek if you ask me,"
says one long-timer.

Rachel Whetstone is Mr Howard's political secretary and leader of what the old
guard calls the Notting Hill set. She makes it clear that no one is being frozen
out.

"The next election isn't rocket science," she says. "Only promise what you can
deliver, focus on what is bothering people: schools, hospitals, bad value taxes,
crime and immigration. I think the whole party agrees on that. We've just got to
stick together and work hard."

Leticia Cash is the new breed of Tory. A working single mother, she has invested
huge amounts of time in the party as a councillor. "I still get depressed
sometimes that we do all this door-knocking and the high command mess it up,"
she says. "We need more ideas that appeal to young people."

Ed Vaizey, a candidate and speechwriter for Mr Howard, agrees. "After Hartlepool
it is important that we don't suddenly lurch to the Right. Voters might support
our policies but they don't want us to look opportunistic," he says. "We don't
want to scare people - we want to show them how we can make their lives better
with firm but fair policies, more officers on the beat, less paperwork, fewer
queues in the health service."

So what do the other camps think? Frances Maude once made no secret of the fact
that he would have preferred Michael Portillo as party leader. He still believes
the Tories can win only by re-gaining the middle ground. "We must stop trying to
differentiate ourselves from Labour and start talking calmly and coolly about
what sort of country we want," he says.

Nick Wood, as head of media for Mr Duncan Smith, has seen it all before. "It's
almost impossible to balance the Left and the Right of the party but they have
got to kill off UKIP," he says.

"The best chance is to run a Right of centre campaign talking about immigration,
Europe and tax but also broaden their appeal by talking about social problems.
And they have to win over pensioners. They are the most disillusioned group of
voters and the most likely to vote."

Iain Duncan Smith's leadership was finally scuppered not by his ideas but by the
donors.

One donor now regrets embracing Mr Howard. "I thought he would be different but,
like William Hague and IDS, as soon as the going gets tough he runs back to his
core voters and starts talking about invading hordes," he says. "So I've closed
my wallet again."

But Jonathan Marland, the chief executive in charge of fund-raising, says: "We
have a surplus in our coffers at the moment, all made up of donations of less
than pounds 50,000. We are on target to raise pounds 19.5 million for the
election." The constituency chairmen, who this time last year were having
serious qualms about IDS, are still backing Mr Howard.

Margot James, prospective candidate for Holborn and St Pancras, sums up their
views. "We don't want another bloody battle or we could be out of the fight
altogether," she says. "So let's stop talking about the election and start
thinking of long-term strategy that keeps Michael as leader for the next few
years."

Dominic Cummings, the former Tory strategist, who once called the Tory party
less popular than the euro, is the most pessimistic. "The heart of the problem
is the nature of the people in the party. They just aren't good enough," he
says. "They are in the shallow end of the talent pool."

George Osborne, the youngest shadow cabinet member, as shadow chief secretary,
is the most upbeat. "I had to speak at the Labour conference last week and it
was amazing. Labour was so divided, there were huge rows, huge tensions. It
reminded me of all the worst Tory conferences when we were in power," he says.

"We've just lost our will power and self-belief. Of course we can win the next
election. In fact now is our best chance. Labour think they are invincible,
which makes them vulnerable. We don't need to change our name, our party or our
torch. If we just have more self-confidence we can reach No 10."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              245 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

Kilroy-Silk demands UKIP leadership

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 165 words

The UK Independence Party's internal strife yesterday burst into the open after
Robert Kilroy-Silk announced his bid to become leader.

The former Labour MP, who this weekend called on the UKIP to "kill" the Tories
after forcing them into fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election, broke cover
to urge Roger Knapman, the present leader, to give way.

"The time is now," said Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former daytime television presenter
who joined the UKIP this year and has rapidly become its highest-profile figure.

The Daily Telegraph last month disclosed that Paul Sykes, the millionaire
businessman and party donor, has effectively told the UKIP to put Mr Kilroy-Silk
in charge or forfeit further donations.

Mr Kilroy-Silk yesterday claimed that funds promised by Mr Sykes for a UKIP
campaign at the next General Election would be frozen if he were not made
leader.

Giving him the leadership in two years' time - when Mr Knapman's four-year term
ends - would be "too late", he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              246 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

Knives are out for Mandelson as new job begins

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 460 words

PETER Mandelson comes under close scrutiny from Euro-MPs of all political shades
today as he seeks to be confirmed in the role of European trade commissioner.

No other commissioner-designate evokes such a mix of hostility and suspicion in
Brussels as New Labour's propagandist, the twice-disgraced Cabinet minister seen
as the spearhead of free-market reform in the 25-strong team of Jose Manuel
Barroso, the European Commission president.

The job will give Mr Mandelson power over sectors and industries, allowing him
to shape the European Union's economic structure.

The Tories and the UK Independence Party are sharpening their knives for today's
three-hour session. So is Paul van Buitenen MEP, a Dutch reformer who has
deployed staff to research the two scandals that drove Mr Mandelson from the
Cabinet.

Pressure is also expected from the French Left, keen to put the
"Blairo-Thatcherite" on trial for alleged crimes against socialism.

Harlem Desir, a French MEP, said: "Peter Mandelson does not speak to our
concerns at all so we cannot support him. We are totally at odds over the
direction of world trade at this critical juncture."

The fear is that global free trade will force privatisation of the French
state-run sector by opening services to unbridled competition.

Le Nouvel Observateur described the Barroso team as a "capitalist putsch",
singling out Mr Mandelson for criticism. "This Labourite wants to turn the EU
into a vast transatlantic free-trade zone, against all our ideals," it said.

The continental media has made much of Mr Mandelson's role in privatising Wessex
Water to the bankrupt American firm Enron while Trade and Industry Secretary.

Questions have also been raised over his meetings with American officials and
business leaders at the Ditchley Foundation, a transatlantic brain-storming
group based in Oxfordshire.

But Mr Mandelson has allies, too, including charities such as Oxfam that see
genuine free trade as the best way to raise living standards in the developing
world. He has vowed to fight for an end to the trade barriers that hurt poor
countries.

In written answers to MEPs, Mr Mandelson said he had always been a passionate
fan of the European project. "It was not easy to be a pro-European in the Labour
Party of the late 1970s and early 1980s, when I was first trying to make my way.
But from my first political engagement as a student, I can honestly say I have
never wavered in this commitment."

He pledged to work for the EU's collective interest rather as an envoy for
Britain. "I want to assure you that I am crystal clear where my obligations now
lie," he said.

Promising to refrain from spin, he hinted at a future role in helping to promote
the European constitution at a referendum.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              247 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

Howard is doomed unless he sticks to the centre ground

BYLINE: By RACHEL SYLVESTER

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1012 words

'At least the monkey didn't stand," said one senior Tory at the end of last
week. The Hartlepool by-election could have been worse for Michael Howard. The
Conservatives could have been relegated to fifth place behind Peter Mandelson's
favourite primate, the local mayor H'Angus.

To be beaten into fourth place (by the UK Independence Party) for the first time
since the Second World War, on the eve of their party conference, was, however,
humiliating enough.

Loyal frontbenchers stopped parroting the line that Hartlepool was "not natural
Tory territory" - they had only one word for the result: "Disaster". Nicholas
Soames called it "f------ awful". The polls, meanwhile, continue to flatline,
giving the Tories little more than a third of the national vote.

It was a by-election defeat in Brent East that precipitated the leadership
crisis for Iain Duncan Smith which came to a head at the Conservative Party
conference precisely a year ago. There is no chance of a challenge to Mr Howard
in Bournemouth this week, of course.

But the Conservative leader is, in fact, in just as great a danger from the
Hartlepool defeat as his predecessor was from the loss in Brent East. This time,
the damage would be self-inflicted. Squeezed between the Liberal Democrats, who
are scooping up the anti-war vote, and UKIP, which is tapping into anti-Europe
feeling, Mr Howard is being tempted to take the worst possible route and tack to
the Right in order to shore up his core support.

It is easy to see why. Voters are, as our poll today shows, concerned about
traditional Tory issues such as tax, immigration and Europe. They believe the
Conservatives would deal with them well.

But if the Tory leader concentrates solely on these subjects, his political
death will be as certain as his predecessor's. Mr Howard's primary task is to
persuade the voters that they want his party to win power. At the moment, most
people believe the Conservatives are way to the Right of them - they put
themselves in the middle of the political spectrum, slightly to the Left of Tony
Blair.

The Conservative leader must therefore concentrate all his efforts on persuading
them that he is, like them, on the centre ground rather than reinforcing the
impression that he is something of the Right.

When he announced that he was putting his name forward to lead the Conservative
Party, Mr Howard seemed to understand this. He promised, in his speech at the
Saatchi Gallery, to make his party "broad in appeal and generous in outlook". He
would, he said, "lead this party from its centre" and "look forward not back".
Although he is a lawyer, he would not, he said, "argue a lawyer's case" or
oppose for opposition's sake.

Since then, however, he has sent increasingly mixed messages about the direction
in which he wants the party to go. Having concentrated to begin with on
centre-ground proposals for reforming the public services, he has now started
concentrating on tax cuts, asylum and Europe. He has sacked the moderates John
Bercow and Damian Green and promoted a Right-winger, John Redwood, instead. His
flip-flop over the war in Iraq was precisely the sort of lawyerly answer that he
admitted the public hates.

And, far from avoiding oppositionalism, he has become increasingly shrill in his
criticism of Tony Blair, culminating in his accusation last week that the Prime
Minister lied in the run-up to military action. "Michael was intellectually
persuaded of the case for modernisation," says one frontbencher, "but he doesn't
really believe it in his heart."

Over the summer, the Conservatives published dozens of populist policy ideas,
but there was no over-arching theme to convey the impression that the party
understood the voters.

Rory Bremner last week portrayed Mr Howard as one of the BBC's Grumpy Old Men,
who are angry about every aspect of modern life, from wind farms and
mobile-phone masts to speed humps. "It's hard to see what Michael's strategy
is," one member of the shadow cabinet complained to me recently. "He seems to
think that the only thing we need to do is to work harder and publish more and
more press releases and then we will win power."

Hard work might help, but it is not enough. The Tories need a consistent message
that puts them firmly in the political centre. They should, as one of Mr
Howard's aides admitted to me, be known for "Four policies, not four hundred" on
subjects which demonstrate that they are moderate - health, education,
transport, childcare.

They must learn from the Liberal Democrats' successful championing of civil
liberties and they should adopt a more measured tone towards Mr Blair. Perhaps
most importantly, they have to start giving the impression that they like the
country they live in now, although believing it could be better - rather than
behaving as if everything around them is falling apart. People want their
politicians to be optimists, not grumpy old men.

The real problem for the Conservative leader, as his advisers are candid enough
to admit in private, is that nobody really thinks that he is going to be prime
minister after the next general election. The timetable for a Tory government,
to be published this week, will look faintly absurd, because the electorate does
not believe the party is going to get into power.

As a result, Mr Howard is, in the minds of the voters, in the same position as
Charles Kennedy and Robert Kilroy-Silk. Voters who want to express their
opposition to the Labour Government feel able to choose between any of the other
parties because there is no clear and credible alternative to Mr Blair. Her
Majesty's Opposition is no longer the natural recipient of protest votes. "It's
grim," said one Conservative MP. "Conference will go well and, by the end of the
week, we'll think everything is fine, but it won't be."

The Tories will find it difficult to win the next general election. But Mr
Howard needs to hold his nerve and stay in the centre in order to make sure they
are in a position to capitalise on discontent with Labour at the one after that.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              248 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

Tories must abandon prevarication and renew their principles

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 149 words

SIR - The near-hysteria over the Hartlepool result is entirely predictable and
equally misplaced. The true story of by-elections post-2001 has been one of five
huge Labour majorities systematically destroyed, one after another. There is a
sea-change going on all right, but it is from Labour to Lib Dem.

This is completely natural, because the Lib Dems are now well to the Left of the
Blair Cabinet and a natural refuge for centre-Left voters who can stand this
Government no longer. The Tories' much smaller nightmare is UKIP, but there is a
difference. The Lib Dems are a fully fledged party with a comprehensive
manifesto; UKIP is a one-issue protest movement. Many Labour voters now
switching to Lib Dem will stay switched next May; but voters are far too smart
not to realise that, in May, a vote for UKIP is a vote for Blair and for
Brussels.

Frederick Forsyth

Hertford, Herts

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              249 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2004, Monday

Tories must win back the right to be believed

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 846 words

As the Tories gather in Bournemouth, the air is thick with advice. Every
know-it-all thinks he has some quick fix to their problems. Some want a change
in policies, others in personnel, others in presentation. Even the Left-wing
newspapers are joining in, having evidently decided that the Tories are more to
be pitied than feared. Little of this counsel is disinterested. By and large, it
tends to reflect the assumptions of the person proffering it. Thus, opponents of
the Iraq war generally want Michael Howard to "stand up to Blair" over the
issue, while supporters feel he is straying too far the other way. Euro-sceptics
urge him to win votes back from UKIP, while Euro-enthusiasts argue that the Lib
Dems are the bigger threat.

Let us try to clear all such prejudices from our minds, and focus instead on the
empirical data, such as those contained in successive YouGov polls in this
newspaper. Fact number one: there is little evidence that the electorate has
shifted to the Left. All the polls suggest that people want a tougher line on
Europe, crime and immigration, that they believe the Government is spending
resources badly on public services, and - increasingly - that they hanker after
tax cuts. Fact number two: swing voters feel every bit as strongly about these
things as declared Tories. Fact number three: the Tories are not associated with
such policies. Voters do not resile from them because they dislike their
manifesto. Rather, the single biggest reason given for not supporting the Tories
is that "it is hard to know what the Conservatives stand for at the moment".

This may be unfair. Under Michael Howard - and, it must be said, under his
predecessor, Iain Duncan Smith - the Conservatives have put together a fine
fisftul of policies, most of which should have huge popular appeal: cutting
bureaucracy, funding more front-line police, setting a ceiling for immigrant
numbers, scrapping inheritance tax, repatriating power from Brussels, helping
people to build up their own retirement funds. The trouble seems to be that
voters don't believe that a Conservative government would do these things.

To a degree, Mr Howard is still paying for John Major's mistakes. The Tories'
reputation for unreliability stems, in large measure, from the 1992-97
parliament when, having narrowly won the election on the basis of two specific
pledges - that the recession would end and that there would be tax cuts - they
spectacularly broke them both. Since then, successive Tory leaders have
struggled to establish their credibility. When they say something popular,
people assume that they are saying it only because there is an election coming.

That is why it is so vital that Mr Howard establish his trustworthiness,
eschewing anything that smacks of opportunism. Four times - on foundation
hospitals, on university tuition fees, on Hutton and on Iraq - he has given the
impression of being more interested in scoring points than in doing the right
thing. This impression was not always fair. On both tuition fees and foundation
hospitals, the legislation eventually put before Parliament was so encrusted
with

Left-wing amendments that there was a strong free-market case for voting against
it. But many voters assumed that the Tories were, once again, playing games. For
the hard truth is that the Conservative Party has lost the benefit of the doubt.
When UKIP says that it is against the EU Constitution, people believe it; when
the Tories do, they are assumed to be electioneering. This is especially true
when they add lawyerly caveats of their own - refusing, for example, to say what
they will do if Brussels refuses to repatriate powers, or claiming that their
commitment on inheritance tax is just an aspiration.

In fact, Mr Howard has an honourable record of doing what he has pledged. He was
the only Home Secretary to tackle the consensus on rising crime, not just in his
rhetoric, but in his actions. He was the one member of Mr Major's cabinet
actually to table policies for the repatriation of power from Brussels, rather
than simply talking about it. Like Margaret Thatcher, he may be that rarest of
politicians: one who delivers more in government than he promises in opposition.

The voters, though, do not see any of this. Instead, they are projecting on to
Mr Howard all the bad impressions formed in their minds by previous Tory
ministries. That is not something that he, or anyone, can turn around overnight.
What is needed is a medium-term strategy aimed at re-establishing the
Conservative Party's plausibility. Activists and candidates, fretful about the
coming general election, understandably want a quick fix. But there isn't one.
If there were, the Tories would have found it by now. The best Mr Howard can do
is patiently to convince the electorate that he and his party mean what they
say: that they have a genuine vision of how Britain ought to be, and carefully
measured policies to get us there. If anyone else approaches Mr Howard with some
snake-oil formula for overnight success, he should be shown the door.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              250 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2004

COMMENTARY; ONLY WAY THEY CAN TRIUMPH

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 328 words


THERE is no point denying it - the Conservatives are in a hole, writes Patrick
O'Flynn.

The fact that Tony Blair is also up to his neck in the political messy stuff
only serves to highlight how poorly the Tories are doing.

As yet the electorate has heard no compelling arguments for replacing a failing
Government with a party which gives every impression of failing even to
competently perform the far less testing task of opposition.

It may be too late for Michael Howard to build sufficient support to win the
next election. But he could maximise support. He should explain why a
Conservative programme for government is fair. In the past few days I have asked
five people whether they could even imagine an argument for voting Tory based on
fairness. Not one could do so.

He must develop the theme that the Tories stand for the overlooked people in the
middle. Tony Blair knows this is his weak spot, hence all his talk last week
about being on the side of hard-working families, but the Tories have yet to
exploit it.

Mr Howard should firm up his aspirations to cut tax on the basis of fairness.
The fact that stamp duty starts at just GBP 60,000 and the three per cent
threshold at GBP 250,000 are sore points. The 40 per cent income tax threshold
at GBP 35,000 is another. Also crazy council tax rises. Let's see a few more
"normal" people as Tory MPs. Too many hail from privileged backgrounds. Don't
panic about Ukip.

Lurching to the Right is what William Hague did.

A disaster. Fight Ukip seat by seat by making the point that in most marginals a
Ukip vote will guarantee a federalist wins. Don't be scared of talking about
immigration. Most voters believe excessive immigration is a key political issue.

Steal Blair's soundbite on crime - but mean it. Tough on crime, tough on the
causes of crime. The public know Blair hasn't fulfilled the first half of the
promise and suspect he probably hasn't done enough on the second.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              251 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2004

KILROY-SILK: MAKE ME LEADER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 180 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk said yesterday that he wants to overthrow the current leader
of the UK Independence Party.

The newly-elected MEP said the time had come for him to take over the reins of
the party from Roger Knapman and that the "vast majority" of Ukip members wanted
him to do so.

In a blunt interview, the former TV presenter insisted he would make a better
job of running the anti-EU party.

He accused Mr Knapman of reneging on a deal to step aside and told him to accept
the "inevitable".

He went on: "I owe it to the party and the party owes it to itself to make a
choice of what it wants to do.

"Everybody tells me they want the current leader to stand down. That is the only
way it can happen.

"We have a very short period between now and the general election - we need to
start now.

"If we can't start now then we have missed that window of opportunity."

But Mr Knapman said he had no intention of stepping down and warned Mr
KilroySilk not to split the party.

He added: "I fully anticipate serving a full four-year term as leader."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              252 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2004

LEADER COLUMN; HOWARD HAS TO SHARPEN UP

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 166 words


IN BOURNEMOUTH this week, the Tories ought to be giving this unpopular
Government a very difficult time. But disappointingly, not only have they so far
failed to steal Labour's clothes but have also failed to remind the electorate
that these are not the only clothes worth wearing. At its heart, Labour is all
about authoritarianism and control, whether through tax credits and
means-testing or through its fondness for banning anything it dislikes.

Conservatism is about personal freedom and aspiration. These are big ideas but
Michael Howard must spell out how he will apply them through real policies.

It is fashionable to say that now all political parties are the same. But this
is not true. It is also fashionable to say that Conservatives have no room for
manoeuvre, squeezed as they are by Ukip, the Lib Dems and Labour's
carefully-crafted centrist image. It is imperative that this week the Tories
find their space. It's a tough job but, as they say, somebody has to do it.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              253 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2004

LEADER COLUMN - THE MONDAY ESSAY; WHY TORIES ARE BEING TOO NICE FOR THEIR OWN
GOOD

BYLINE: By Virginia Blackburn

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 762 words


Since they were swept from office by Blair s landslide in 1997, the Tories have
done nothing, other than try to convince the electorate that they are no longer
the nasty party. With the country in a mess under Blair, the Tories have one
last chance to sort themselves out at their conference this week and offer
voters a viable alternative to Labour

THEY owe him a vote of thanks - the Tories, that is, to the Prime Minister.

For as the brouhaha surrounding the state of Mr Blair's health and the
leadership succession shows no sign of dying down, it is distracting attention
away from the fact that the Conservatives are in a dire position.

As their annual conference kicks off, the fact is that last week in the
Hartlepool by-election they came fourth, pushed into that position by UKIP - an
organisation that until recently had no credible political standing at all. And
what are they doing about this unbelievably awful state of affairs? Threatening
yet another lurch to the Right - and that despite the fact that William Hague
and Iain Duncan Smith did exactly the same when they were leading the party.
Where did it get them? Nowhere.

It is more than seven years since the Tories lost the 1997 election in a Labour
landslide and yet their position is now worse than at any time since then. Seven
years is long enough to forget the embarrassments of the John Major leadership
and start on a new beginning and yet this lot have done nothing at all other
than try to convince the electorate that they are the nice party really, not the
nasty.

In fact, this obsession with niceness is damaging them: like wee timorous
beasties no one dare come up with any real initiatives in case they be accused
of cutting back on public services, despite the fact that some of us would be
delighted if they did - ridding the NHS of bureaucrats rather than doctors.

Nor do they seem to realise that niceness is not important to the electorate.
The Tories have never been seen as a nice party but what is holding them back is
not a public perception of nastiness but one of incompetence and elitism. Tackle
that and they might just start making up some ground.

As to how they go about that - well, that's a matter for the Tories themselves.
The fact that the party of Disraeli, Churchill and Thatcher has not come up with
one vote-grabbing idea in the best part of a decade out of office speaks for
itself.

And on the elitism front, there may be some in the party who think it a good
idea to promote the so-called "Notting Hill" set of Tories, a small and smug
group based in one of the richest and most exclusive areas in the country - but
they certainly aren't the people who are going to get the party elected in the
future.

Thinking back to the Thatcher era, what is often forgotten is how well she
managed to communicate to ordinary people. She tackled issues that meant
something to them: not just quelling the power of the unions but in, for
example, allowing the less well off to become home owners via the sales of
council housing and shareholders via the great privatisation programmes.

When Michael Howard took over the Tory leadership last year there was such high
hope for what was to come. Here, it seemed at last, was a man capable of scaling
similar heights, of reconnecting the Tories with their natural constituency, of
rising above recent setbacks and making his party great again.

And look what has happened since. Many of us are now looking at the annual
conference with foreboding: those early hopes have failed quite spectacularly to
materialise.

They say that oppositions do not win elections: rather, governments lose them.
Look at the state of this Government today.

We are embroiled in a hellish situation in the Middle East with no chance of
getting out in the immediate future, which we are only in because we were misled
from the top.

The chief misleader has a heart problem, possibly more serious than we've been
told, while an unseemly scrabble has already broken out to get his job.

PUBLIC services are in a shambles, education standards are collapsing and the
country is in a mess. And how are the Tories capitalising on all this? They
aren't.

This will probably be the last Conservative Party conference before an election
- one which, on current showing, the party is as likely to lose as the last. But
there's more at stake than simply trying to win, which they won't, in 2005. What
is at stake is the very future of the party, itself.

Is it too much to ask that they tackle that issue now?

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              254 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Be sure to watch your own back: The lesson of Labour's
renaissance seems lost on Michael Howard

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 936 words


The book to read between dozes in the Tory back stalls at Bournemouth this week
is, curiously, a Labour one. Giles Radice started a diary in the dreadful
aftermath of 1979 and toiled away at it zealously, in party sickness and party
health, as shadow frontbencher, backbencher and peer. From disaster to triumph
in 22 years, the longest of marches. And the Conservatives haven't even put
their boots on yet.

Diaries 1980-2001* is full of anger and despair, the pure politics of a
politician who has only one life to live and one career to make. He reels at the
"catastrophe" of 1983. He asks himself the bitterest question after 1987: "Will
Labour ever be in government again?" He is utterly cast down by 1992.

There's a wonderful entry for May 5 1992, when he dines at the Ivy with Peter
Jenkins (long of the Guardian, then of the Independent, and one of the great
political sages). Giles has bet on a Labour victory, and lost: he's paying the
bill. "Peter says that Labour will never win and that the Tories will always be
in power. He also says that I should leave politics and try to get a job in the
European commission."

Yet, of course, only one parliament later the Blair hegemony begins, the legacy
of Thatcher (if not the Ivy's fishcakes) slides down the pan of history, and the
world is utterly, utterly changed. Did anyone, 15 years ago, see PM Tony buying
a £3.6m pound pad in Connaught Square and pronouncing himself fit for another
full term at the top? Did anyone see the ex-natural party of government winding
up as also-also-also rans in Hartlepool?

One virtue of reading Radice is that it is a tale of the totally unexpected. But
it is also a tale of hard work and hard slog: that long march again. Time after
time, confronting its own demons, Labour did what was necessary on policy and
constitution and organisation. From Neil Kinnock on, it earned its return to
power. John Smith brought new credibility. Tony Blair made his own luck. Even in
defeat, there was progress. But the Tories, two elections later, have made no
progress and earned nothing. Nobody will be staking an Ivy bread roll on them
next May.

Of course, some of the direr prognoses of doom in yesterday's heavy Sundays may
be overdone. Of course, Robert Kilroy-Silk spins a tatty yarn when he asks his
Ukip conference why anyone should wish to give the Conservative party the kiss
of life. "What we have to do is kill it off and replace it. That is our destiny,
that is our opportunity." Nevertheless, it is time to carve a few notches in the
greasiest of poles.

Michael Howard, surveying episode 97 of Blair v Brown the other day, prophesied
years of infighting over the leadership. Perhaps. But he needs to watch his own
back. So far the Tory idea of renewal is simply to swap messiahs, from Major to
Hague to Duncan Smith to Howard in four easy stumbles, rather as though you were
choosing a new manager for West Bromwich Albion or a new editor for the Daily
Express. What, then, becomes of him and his leadership after the next defeat?

Next May, Howard will be only a few weeks from his 64th birthday. Four or five
years later - that full term Tony keeps talking about - he will be knocking at
No 70's door. He will, in short, be gone, a memory, another footnote to central
office history, replaced by a Rifkind, Cameron, Green, Fox or resurrected Hague.
Or maybe by two or three of them in hapless succession, as the vortex of
desperation deepens. After all, it's only 11 months since Howard took over. This
is his first conference as leader, and already the voices at the back of the
hall make it his last.

The point about reading Radice is that, from moment to moment, he and Peter
Jenkins could have been right. Labour could have subsided into wretched
oblivion. There was no God-given entitlement for pendulums to swing. Success had
to be grafted and fought for.

But where can you find such staunchness of purpose at Bournemouth? Howard has no
central policy thrusts to develop. Less taxes, more taxes or more of the same?
Less spending, more spending or matched spending, pound for pound? Less Iraq
involvement, more troop commitment or more of the same? Less Europe, more Europe
or something unbelievable in between?

It is a dismaying stew without definition or purpose - as contradictory as
oozing care and consensus from one side of the mouth and snarling about
immigration from the other, as inertly hopeless as losing Damian Green from your
shadow team and returning John Redwood to glory.

Howard arrives at the seaside as the only Tory leader since records began who
isn't welcome to a Republican White House - but one who nevertheless preaches a
kind of half-baked Bush conservatism learned from Conrad Black's Telegraph.
Friendless and rootless, ideologically adrift - will he get the support of the
Murdoch papers? Don't ask. They only back winners.

Nothing is for ever, to be sure; 2009 could be a totally different fishcake.
Ukip could have gone the self-destruct way of all prancing extremist groups. The
Liberal Democrat challenge could have collapsed (as it did for Radice in 1987).
G Brown could have taken a meat cleaver to his neighbour. But unless there is a
course, set and steady, then there will be no tide to ride. Unless there's a
fundamental choice on Europe - properly in or properly out, not temporising like
John Kerry on Iraq - then Ukip is a rocky, wrecking headland. Welcome to
Bournemouth: clouds heavy, sky grey going on black. And bring a good book.

*Giles Radice's Diaries: 1980-2001, Weidenfeld & Nicolson

p.preston@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004

Comment & Analysis: No more new Jerusalems: We Conservatives have won the battle
of ideas on choice, tax and waste. Now is the time for action

BYLINE: George Osborne

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 874 words


If Tony Robinson is short of ideas for his new TV series The Worst Jobs in
History, can I suggest the job I had to do 10 years ago? Official Tory observer
at the Labour party conference. For a whole week in Blackpool, I walked around
wearing the equivalent of a leper's bell - a pass that said I was from the
Conservative party.

It wasn't just any conference either. This was Tony Blair's first conference as
Labour leader, the one where he ditched Clause 4 and where "New Labour" made its
first appearance. Here was a party bristling with self-confidence, disciplined,
energetic, full of ideas, with a young leader who promised a new kind of
politics and a new political era; while there was I, a junior researcher,
representing a tired and divided government that had been in office since I was
seven years old and had run out of things to say.

Last week I went back to the Labour conference, this time to give a speech as an
opposition spokesman at a fringe meeting. Brighton town centre looked a bit like
a provincial North Korean city, with colourful posters on every lamppost
proclaiming "A better life for all". But no one believed it.

The Labour party I found there was unrecognisable to the one I encountered 10
years ago. Exhausted, uncertain of its legacy, unsure of its future direction,
bitterly divided - one could feel the passing of a political era even before
Blair fired the starting gun on the race for his successor. As I travelled back
to London on the train I thought, for the first time in my short political
lifetime: "We can win this, we really can."

Yet as we Conservatives gather here in Bournemouth, I still find an air of
self-doubt. Hartlepool hasn't helped, of course. If there are two words that can
unnerve the Tory heartlands, they're "LibDems" and "Ukip" - but I am not sure
they should. The big question for the Liberals is not why are they doing well
but why aren't they doing much better. If ever a third party was going to make a
breakthrough, it would have been over the past five years. Instead, they hover
in the low 20s in the opinion polls, came fourth in the European elections and
face a looming chasm between the traditional sandal brigade and the neo-liberals
who want to dismantle the NHS.

As for Ukip, for all the Kilroy-Silk inspired hype, they have no prospect of
winning a single parliamentary seat. I believe we can persuade these voters in a
well-targeted cam paign that the next Conservative government would bring powers
back from Brussels without letting the European issue dominate our main election
message.

What should that message be? We certainly don't lack ideas. In fact, quite
unusually for an opposition, we've been setting the philosophical agenda for
some time. Take choice in the public services. Patient and parental power as a
mechanism for improving standards was once derided by Labour ministers, but no
prime ministerial speech is now complete without the buzzword of "choice". Or
take waste and inefficiency in Whitehall. When we started talking about it,
Gordon Brown accused us of talking down the public sector. Now he tries to
outbid us with claims about the number of civil servants he's going to sack. Or
even take tax. We've been saying taxes are too high and should be reduced. Who
noticed tucked away in Blair's speech last week the promise of "tax relief for
the millions of hard-working families"? Get ready for a tax-cutting gimmick in
the pre-election budget.

Conservatives have been winning the battle of ideas but, partly because of
Blair's chameleon qualities, we've struggled to create a distinctive identity
for ourselves. The public look at us and asks: "Are you any different from the
other lot?" And because they're so disillusioned with Labour, we've got to
persuade them that we are different if we want to win their votes. To do that we
certainly mustn't abandon the centre ground in the search for mythical clear
blue water - we've already got the right ideas on pensions, crime, education,
childcare, health, tax and all the other areas that top most people's list of
concerns.

Nor do we need some new-fangled packaging to set us apart. A succession of Tory
leaders have tried to find a rhetorical answer to Blair and failed. Indeed, the
one thing the public has had enough of from this government is talk. What they
want to see is action. We should recognise that and respond. We should do what
political parties almost never do. We should avoid the overblown statements and
tub-thumping oratory. We should downplay our rhetoric and cut the talk about
building a new Jerusalem.

Instead, let's set out clearly and simply what we want to achieve. Michael
Howard should tell people exactly how we could help them on day one, week one
and year one of a Conservative government. He should be positive, practical and
realistic about what we can and cannot do. He shouldn't promise the earth, just
what he can deliver and be held accountable for. This week in Bournemouth,
Michael should play to his strengths and be the antidote to the Blair era I saw
emerge in Blackpool 10 years ago.

George Osborne is Conservative MP for Tatton and shadow chief secretary to the
Treasury

contact@georgeosborne.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004

Howard hopes tax pledge will lift gloom

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words


Michael Howard will today attempt to breathe new life into a despondent
Conservative party by turning the clock back to the glory days of the 1980s with
a pledge to match Margaret Thatcher's tax cutting commitments.

As gloomy Tories gathered in Bournemouth for their last conference before the
general election, the scale of the challenge facing Mr Howard was underlined by
a poll which showed that he is even less popular than Iain Duncan Smith.

The findings of the Populus poll could not have come at a worse time for Mr
Howard as he struggles to convince voters that he is a credible alternative to
Tony Blair after a series of blows. The latest came last Thursday when the
Tories were beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence party in the
Hartlepool byelection.

The Conservative leadership will try to show that it will not be blown off
course by such setbacks when Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, sets out a
series of steps leading to tax cuts. Haunted by memories of the 2001 general
election, when his incautious talk of £20bn tax cuts was pounced on by Labour,
Mr Letwin will not offer specific commitments.

But Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, did his best to show the Tories are serious
about tax cuts when he declared that the party's plans were modelled on Lady
Thatcher's commitments in the 1979 election campaign. "Mrs Thatcher didn't go
into that election with any specific pledges on how much she'd reduce tax by.
But there was a very clear direction that the government intended to reduce tax.
. ." he said.

The leadership's decision to burnish its Thatcherite credentials will revive
memories of William Hague's performance in the run-up to the last general
election. Facing a dire position in the polls, Mr Hague embarked on a "core
votes strategy", which was dismissed by opponents as a lurch to the right but
delighted the Tory grassroots. However, their support at the general election
added only one Tory MP to the party's tally at Westminster.

In Bournemouth, shadow cabinet ministers on the centre ground will resist
pressure to meet the Ukip threat by what is already being dismissed as "core
votes lite". But Tim Collins, the shadow education secretary, who was one of the
authors of the Hague strategy, showed that the right believe they have the upper
hand.

"The evidence is that the electorate is moving to the right not the left," Mr
Collins told the BBC as he reeled off a list of core policies such as opposition
to the euro and plans for tighter immigration. "The challenge for the
Conservatives is to show that we're the rightwing alternative."

However, other members of the shadow cabinet believe it would be political
suicide to rise to the bait after Robert Kilroy-Silk, Ukip's most formidable
figure, pledged to "kill" the Tory party.

Against this backdrop, Mr Letwin will attempt to show that the Tories can offer
a credible alternative to Labour by creating the conditions for tax cuts. He
will identify five areas of tax that are "manifestly unfair" and three of which
are "over complicated".

The five are: the council tax; inheritance tax; stamp duty; income tax and
national insurance thresholds: and taxation of savings and pensions. The final
three are capital gains tax, taxation of small businesses and environmental
taxes.

Mr Letwin will go on the offensive again on Wednesday when he declares in a
speech on the moral case for low taxation: "We cannot stand by and watch
harmfully high taxes feeding needlessly fat government."

The Tories hope such commitments will give the party momentum ahead of the
election widely expected next May. But Dr Fox gave a taste of the gloom at the
higher reaches of the Tory party when he admitted that the electorate had yet to
embrace Mr Howard.

"People have fallen out of love with Tony Blair but have not yet fallen in love
with the Conservatives," he said. "When people are disillusioned with Tony Blair
their conclusion is not let's jump to an alternative but why should we vote?"

Politics, pages 8-9

Peter Preston, page 17

George Osborne, page 18

Leader comment, page 19

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004
                              Correction Appended

Policy & Politics: Cheers greet Kilroy, the man who would be Ukip king

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1013 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk placed himself at the head of the militant grassroots wing of
the UK Independence party this weekend by backing calls to reject any general
election pact with Michael Howard, in favour of a strategy for "killing off" the
Tories and taking their place.

Though the former daytime TV star had ruled out a direct challenge for the Ukip
leadership when it swept to a spectacular tally of 11 MEPs, one himself, in the
European elections, he is openly impatient to get control once the present
leader, Roger Knapman MEP, steps down.

Two days after pushing the Tories into fourth place at Hartlepool, Mr
Kilroy-Silk showed his vote-winning potential at Ukip's "celebratory" annual
conference in Bristol when, to 1,100 cheering party supporters, he made an angry
but polished attack on the "lies of the metropolitan political elite" on Europe
and much else.

The conference, in a fading hall, was a throwback to an innocent era, free of
security, lobbyists and expensive stalls. The faithful representing Ukip's
26,000 members were predominantly former Tories, mainly middle class,
non-metropolitian, and overwhelmingly white. A lot wore ties.

But there were a smattering of black faces and of peers - as well as the fallen
cabinet minister, Jonathan Aitken, who is considering standing for Ukip in his
old seat in Kent.

Except when those on the platform (festooned with huge gold sterling signs) were
suspected of manipulating the agenda, the mood was genial. Delegates revelled in
reminders that senior Conservatives dismissed them as gadflies, extremists and
cranks.

"Good morning, gadflies," said Nigel Farage from the podium. Mr Farage, an MEP
since 2000, is one of those resisting a rush to anoint the party's new star
until he has shown more willingness to do the spadework to restructure Ukip. The
tension is palpable.

Mr Kilroy-Silk clearly believes he cannot be simply the election front man -
what his allies call Ukip's "tart who goes out and gets the vote" - unless he
has more control.

He makes no secret of his hostility to the US pollster, Dick Morris ("if he's
good enough for Putin and Clinton, he's good enough for us," says Mr Knapman)
who told the conference that "the centrality of sovereignty" is the hub of the
wheel - linking loss of control to the EU with pressing domestic issues.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is a former Labour MP, Mr Knapman is a former Tory MP. In a
wittily dry speech, albeit no match for his heir-very-apparent, Mr Knapman won
laughs for saying his public recognition rate in two years as leader had risen
from 0.008% to 0.009%. But, he added, amid cheers, the number of voters who knew
what Ukip was had shot up from 20% to 75% over the same period. He did not
credit RKS.

But there was no disguising the conference's simmering anger at its sense of
betrayal (betrayal on everything, from EU fishing policy to asylum and excesses
of the Human Rights Act), and its exclusion by the three main parties,
"indistinguishable from each other" in their lies and evasions.

In a speech shown on Sky News inter-active, the 62-year-old Mr Kilroy-Silk
pumped up that anger. Handsome, highly-articulate and beautifully dressed, he
deployed the made-for-TV skills he has honed for 18 years. His rhetoric,
scarcely more populist than at rival conferences but better delivered, fell
safely short of demagogy. A former lecturer in political science, he does not
need reminding who Oswald Mosley was.

Conscious Ukip is accused of being a one-issue party, the East Midlands MEP
(looking for a local Westminster seat), broadened his attack to dirty hospitals,
child poverty, malnourished pensioners, shops boarded up because of ram-raiding,
and people afraid to go out at night for fear of "drunk-fuelled yobs beating
them up".

"We have got to change this. This is unnecessary . . . we are the fourth largest
economy in the world." But the passage that will most alarm senior Tories as
their conference opens in Bournemouth today, saw him pre-empt Ukip's debate on
deals with anti-EU MPs in other parties - even before the debate had begun.

The Ukip leadership of Mr Knapman, a government whip under John Major, has been
seeking to soften its intolerant one-issue image among wavering voters from all
the main parties by not running against MPs deemed as anti-Europeans. They
include Labour's Austin Mitchell, and the Tories' Richard Shepherd and Angela
Browning. Mr Kilroy-Silk, backed by grassroots speakers later on Saturday, would
have none of it.

"You have just established yourselves as being new, fresh, honest, open and
decent. Why do you want to start wheeler-dealing like they do, that is what they
(voters) despise . . .the Conservative party is dying, why would you want to
give it the kiss of life? What we want to do is kill and replace it. That is our
destiny."

The moderates stress deals would only be done with MPs, not parties. On a show
of hands, they were swept aside by a rank and file who believe Ukip is poised
for the kind of breakthrough Charles Kennedy believes is coming the Lib Dems'
way (Ukip having pushed the Lib Dems into fourth at the European poll). In
effect the debate saw the realists defeated by the fundamentalists, or, to put
the battle into Green party lingo, realos vs fundies.

Yet the conference listened in attentive silence as Alan Eastwood, a former head
of the Police Federation, de fended legalisation of drugs as the best means to
regulate and decriminalise the epidemic.

There were frequent warnings against "factionalism and the temptations of
disunity". Mr Knapman told delegates it was their message, and "not any
messianic leadership", which got results.

For his part, Mr Kilroy-Silk told them they must be "ruth

less and determined" if they were to harness the "mood for change" and restore
to the UK its sovereignty from Brussels.

He mocked Mr Howard for stealing his ideas. "Fine, Michael, you can have my old
suits, because I've got lots of them. I used to be Kilroy, you know."

guardian.co.uk/politics/otherparties


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2004

CORRECTION:  Nigel Farage, mentioned in a report headed Cheers greet Kilroy etc,
page 8, October 4, has been an MEP since the elections of 1999, not 2000.

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004

Tories in Bournemouth: A liberal who knows only way back is to recapture the
centre: Jackie Ashley meets David Cameron , the moderate who will pull the
manifesto together: Jackie Ashley meets David Cameron , the moderate who will
pull the manifesto together

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1481 words


If the Conservatives have a future, a question some now are now asking
seriously, it surely lies in the sturdy, well-heeled and cheerful figure of
David Cameron.

At 38, Cameron has been promoted to the shadow cabinet and is routinely spoken
of as a future leader. He is all too well aware of the dangers of that, showing
irritation at the suggestion that he and his friend George Osborne are the Blair
and Brown of the Tories.

"Thus ending both our careers prematurely," he interrupts. "It's a silly, crazy
notion. Unlike Blair and Brown, we actually get on with each other, we're very
good friends; that is as far as I am prepared to take the analogy."

Even so, the one universally praised aspect of Michael Howard's reshuffle was
the pair's arrival on the front bench. Cameron has control of bringing together
the manifesto, the Tories' Alan Milburn, perhaps.

As he reflected on the party's dreadful performance at Hartlepool ("very
disappointing, but we just have to take it on the chin"), the vital questions
for Cameron are: does he think the Conservatives should swing to the right to
see off the UK Independence party; and if not, what alternative theme does he
want the Tories to rally around?

On the argument for a harder line on immigration and Europe, Cameron is
unequivocal.

"That is absolute rubbish. The whole thing about clear blue water is ridiculous.
There is enough clear blue water to drown in." The Tories had to respond to Ukip
by emphasising that the real choice was between Tony Blair and Michael Howard,
with the latter's aversion to the euro and the European constitution. "Voting
for a fringe party doesn't make any sense. The more that we can show that we
have a credible plan that will make a difference to this country, with an
alternative prime minister who is self-evidently experienced and intellectually
up to the job, then that is the way to convince people that there is a point to
politics."

He agrees with Howard that firm but fair control of immigration is essential to
good race relations, and that people want "order, control and fairness in place
of disorder, lack of control, and unfairness".

But Conservatives would offer, he said, "a credible, decent, tolerant, sensible,
moderate opposition, with a really good plan for this country - that is the
key".

We will come back to the plan later. But keeping with the temptation to lurch
rightwards, what about tax? Michael Howard is promising targeted tax cuts.
Cameron is very cautious. The priority, he says, is to give value for money for
today's taxes.

"People feel heavily overtaxed; but it's not the time to come out and say here
are some specific tax reductions, because they think politicians have just told
them lies about tax for 20 years. We told them we would try and cut tax year
after year after year, and we had to put tax up - as I know to my cost, I was in
the Treasury - and Labour said they had no plans to increase tax at all, and
they increased tax 66 times. So people simply don't want to hear more promises.

"We want to show over time that we want to move towards a lower tax economy, but
we mustn't make promises that we can't keep." There was a path towards lower
taxes but "we will not make specific promises at this stage".

So what about the Tories' positive plan? They have begun to look like a party
without a theme. Cameron's answer is not to lurch rightwards, but to offer a
moderate, modest package of changes. His big idea is deliberately not to promise
much, but to offer a detailed timetable.

"What we're going to do is the opposite of what Labour has just done. They've
made a huge mistake, because the big problem in politics at the moment is
disillusion, cynicism and apathy. People don't think we're going to achieve
anything. They feel so let down by a government that promised the earth -
wonderful phrases, and grandiloquent language.

"We're going to do the opposite of that. We're going to be very clear and
precise about what we're going to do."

This means, he says, "a timetable for action that's going to show what we are
going to do in the first day, in the first week, in the first month. If anybody
says I will promise you a transport system for the 21st century, they will be
taken out and shot.

"It will be: 'These are the road schemes I will start, these are the regulations
I will get rid of.' Precise, clear, trying to restore some accountability. And
I'm very excited about it."

To me, it seems well-meaning and thoughtful rather than exciting - particularly
since Cameron's suggested slogan is indeed merely "a timetable for action". But
he seems genuinely worked up: "If I hear David Blunkett announce weekend prisons
one more time, I'll apply to go to one. People have had it. They don't believe
that they're going to do anything.

"That's a problem for us, because we've got to convince them that we will do
things."

Rather than banging on about Europe, Cameron promises that the Tories will be
very focused on health, education, crime, and the economy. By the end of the
conference, he hopes everyone on the doorstep will know about the Conservative
plans in these core areas.

They include getting rid "of all Whitehall targets for hospitals, so that
hospital managers can concentrate on a clean environment and treating patients;
we will allow good schools to expand by getting rid of the surplus places rule,
so there will be more choice for parents to pick a good school for their
children; the home secretary will immediately get rid of the early-release
scheme so that we don't have 3,000 extra crimes a year from people let out of
prison early."

Some of the actions the Tories would announce "may seem quite small in
themselves, but that's credible and believable and understandable. Add them all
up and they'll make a difference to people's lives".

If this sounds moderate, that is the way he wants it. On the social agenda, he
comes across as liberal, insisting politicians should not "twitch at the net
curtains" and tell people what to do. "The Conservative party has got to be for
everyone: old, young, black, white, straight, gay, urban, rural. We are a
national party, we're a party for everybody; and it's important that we show
that in the way we talk and the way we behave.

"I just don't think that the Conservative party is anti-gay, anti-immigrant."

All this is fine, but does not Cameron accept the obvious, that the Tories have
no chance of winning the election?

He does not, arguing that with both parties in the 32-34% range, anything can
happen. People were angry with Blair, he noted, "but that begs the question, why
are we still stuck on this level of polling?"

People now trusted the Tories more, and did not think they would lurch this way
or that. They just were not sure they would make any difference.

"If you ask people, does Blair deserve a third term, they don't just say no -
they shout it. So I think it's all open."

Despite his optimism, many Tories of his generation have simply abandoned
politics, unwilling to put up with years in opposition. What makes him
different?

"I was always interested in issues rather than politics," he says, and lists his
day's diary in his Oxfordshire constituency, meeting business people, farmers
and campaigners. "What a wonderful day, what a great way to spend your life."

But life is not all easy. He has two small children, one seriously disabled, and
has probably spent more time in NHS hospitals than anyone else in politics. He
raves about the quality of care, though he finds getting both in and out of
hospital difficult: "We've had some awful six and seven hour waits in casualty.
And then, when it's time to come out, you can never find anyone to discharge
you."

With his wit and plummy voice, Cameron comes over as a milder version of Boris
Johnson: less wild self-parody and playing it for laughs; more evidence of a
social conscience. He has, he admits, a "terribly corny" CV: Eton and Oxford,
"though I got a first, that's something not everyone does". Clever, ambitious
and moderate as he is, I do not for a moment think he expects his party to win
the election. But I do think he is thinking long-term, and is clear in his mind
that the Tories can only win in the centre ground; and that therefore he is
indeed a man to watch.

Put your questions to David Cameron guardian.co.uk/liveonline

The CV

David Cameron

Born October 9 1966

Education Eton; Oxford University

Family Married, two children

Career Conservative research department, 1988-92; special adviser HM Treasury,
Home Office, 1992-94; head of corporate affairs, Carlton Communications
1994-2001; Member of Parliament for Witney, Oxfordshire, since 2001; deputy
chairman, Conservative party, 2003-04; head of policy coordination and member of
shadow cabinet, 2004-


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 4, 2004

Tories in Bournemouth: Nervous party hopes for a little more action: Leadership
sees kiss-and-tell Soames as its human face

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 763 words


The sex life of Nicholas Soames has been a source of fascination since an
ex-girlfriend likened his lovemaking technique to a wardrobe falling over with
its key sticking out. So Tories will no doubt be delighted this week when the
rotund grandson of Winston Churchill sheds light on his first kiss, as part on
an attempt by Central Office to make the party leadership appear more human.

"I remember making a frightful hash of it," Mr Soames says in a video which will
be beamed to party members in the Bournemouth conference hall. "It may have
scarred me for life."

Political parties have long resorted to eye-catching gimmicks to attract the
attention of voters at their annual seaside gatherings. Weary Tory MPs, who
gathered in a gloomy rain-soaked Bournemouth last night, may be left wondering
whether the kiss video will symbolise the party's desperate, but ultimately
futile, attempts to reach out.

Behind the smiles as Michael Howard and the Tory leadership descended on the
Dorset resort is a sinking real isation that for all the professionalism of the
new regime, the party is on course for another drubbing in next year's general
election.

"Things are simply terrible," one disgruntled MP said after the Tories sank to
fourth place, behind the UK Independence party, in last week's Hartlepool
byelection.

Mr Howard needs no reminding of such private thoughts. But knowing that he has
only one shot at the premiership, he and his inner circle have worked hard to
ensure that this year's conference will be a slick affair that will - in public
at least - present a more united party than Labour.

Under the guidance of the advertising guru Maurice Saatchi, who shares the party
chairmanship with Liam Fox, the leadership has transformed the public face of
the party. The famous Tory torch, which Thatcherite supporters held aloft as she
scored three successive election victories, has been updated.

Under the headline Timetable for Action, a beefy arm holds the torch up to
symbolise the Tories' promise to deliver on their commitments by set dates if
they win power. Speakers on the space age conference set will stand under three
large plasma screens carrying the logo, which wags have likened to a
Soviet-style poster from the Stalin era.

No detail has been left to chance. Speakers will take to the conference platform
to the sound of the remixed Elvis Presley song, "A little less conversation, a
little more action please", to show people outside the political world that the
Tories are determined to deliver. "Did you get the lyrics, they're politically
significant," one official said with great pride.

The Tories will hope to live up to Elvis's grainy appeal later in the song for
"a little less fight and a little more spark". All sides of the party have
painful memories of last year's conference in Blackpool, another slick affair in
technical terms, which descended into farce as the party delivered the last
rites to the leadership of Iain Duncan Smith.

Shadow ministers will try to show spark by delivering speeches on easily
digested themes, rather than under dreary policy headings.

Health and education will be debated tomorrow under the heading of "right to
choose", which Lord Saatchi believes is the elusive "big idea" which sets the
Tories apart from Labour's centralising tendencies.

"Welcome to our conference without walls," Dr Fox said yesterday as he
introduced the bare metal set which he hopes will reach out to middle ground
voters but which will probably be remembered for looking like a left over from
the set of Star Trek. "This set is our studio to the world which has a more
intimate feel."

The Tory leadership has toiled for months laying the political ground for the
conference. Today's setpiece speech by the shadow chancellor, Oliver Letwin, in
which he will lay the ground for tax cuts, is only possible after the party
spent the summer outlining how it will cut billions of pounds from Labour's
spending plans.

While the likes of Mr Letwin will no doubt be cheered from the rafters, the real
business will take place in the bars and restaurants of Bournemouth as nervous
Tories grapple with the threat posed by Ukip.

"The mood is apprehensive," said one loyal frontbencher who rarely voices gloomy
thoughts even in private.

Perhaps David Cameron's choice of music in the Soames video is the most telling
sign. "The more depressing the better, I find it strangely uplifting," the
party's chief policy coordinator says as he explains his love of the Smiths and
Radiohead.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: THE SLOW, STRANGE DEATH OF THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY;
  MICHAEL BROWN, WHO WAS A TORY MP FOR 18 YEARS, GOES AROUND THE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN Conservative Party leader Michael Howard in Bournemouth
yesterday Tom Pilston Michael Brown as a Conservative MP in 1993

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE

LENGTH: 1633 words


"THE CONSERVATIVE Party is dying. Why would you want to give it the kiss of
life? What we have to do is to kill it and replace it." Those words, used by
Robert Kilroy-Silk at this weekend's UK Independence Party conference, will
reverberate around the hall in Bournemouth as Michael Howard prepares for his
first - and maybe his last - conference as party leader.

The day after the next election, Mr Kilroy-Silk will probably find that the
Tories, in Parliament, will still be alive although severely wounded. What we
may be witnessing is the slow, strange death of the Conservative Party. This has
nothing to do with UKIP, the Liberal Democrats, leadership, policies, or rows
about Europe, but much more to do with the death of the party's infrastructure
in those constituencies which once returned Tory MPs, but which by the
subsequent election in 2009, will have had no party representation in Parliament
for more than 12 years. There is a feeling that this is a party rotting from the
roots.

The evidence is patchy and anecdotal but is powerful nevertheless. Take
Cleethorpes, which I represented until 1997. Where once I had a full- time paid
party agent and constituency office, the current candidate, Rachael Lake, must
make do by sharing facilities with nearby Grimsby, five miles away. This means
that there is no listing, from directory inquiries, for a Conservative Party in
Cleethorpes and a number from the party's official website proved unobtainable.
No one was returning calls and anyone seeking to join the party in Cleethorpes
would have required patience and considerable powers of investigation. All of
this may account for the fact that Mrs Lake, excellent candidate though she is,
has yet to get more publicity in the local daily evening paper. So far, she has
had four hits in the local press since her selection, six months ago. Shona
McIsaac, the current Labour MP who had a two-year run-in before she defeated me,
was in the paper three times a week and was as well known as me by polling day,
thereby eliminating any advantage of my incumbency. The only time I make visits
to the constituency these days is to attend funerals or memorial services. In
the true sense of the word, party members and activists are dying and the party
finds it difficult to replace them with new foot soldiers. When reporting the
constituency at the 2001 general election, I noted that all the party workers I
met were working for me in the 1983 election. By 2009 far too many of them will
be selling raffle and Tombola tickets for that great Tory cheese and wine party
in the sky. Nearly every village once boasted a local branch where members
"would get a car for old Mrs Jones who is house bound". Now the rural villages
and towns, which make up the bulk of the Tory vote, have to cluster around a
single branch centred on Barton-upon-Humber. In Cleethorpes 20 years ago, every
ward would have had a nominal branch - although I freely concede some were very
inactive between elections, but they could be cranked up quickly to rake in
last-minute postal votes and provide polling-day tellers and a smattering of
canvassing. Even if it was just a husband-and-wife show in a solid Labour area,
it provided an address for the candidate to visit and meet the neighbours. As an
MP I could maintain the foot soldiers' morale by invitations to Westminster. All
would get the prized parliamentary Christmas card and some might even get a box
of House of Commons mints. Four out of the five of my constituency chairmen
during my 18 years were included in the Queen's honours lists - encouraging
contenders actually to want the thankless task.

But with no prospect of personal recognition, today's party workers in Labour
seats have only the incentive of trying to get their candidate elected.

In the bell-wether constituency of Basildon, a similar story seems to be
unfolding. This has long been regarded as a barometer seat, where "Essex Man"
delivered his fatal blow to Neil Kinnock in 1992. Boundary changes altered the
seat and David Amess, the former MP, decamped to Southend West, but Basildon and
East Thurrock remains a good indicator of the Tory Party's overall performance.

Angela Smith, who was the Labour winner in 1997, is defending a 7,738 majority
and at the next election she will be challenged by Aaron Powell, a councillor
for the London Borough of Redbridge, who was selected in

November 2003 and moved to Basildon in February. Despite his attempts to make
himself well known in the community, a council employee said that the name "does
not ring any bells" and Tony Archer, councillor for Billericay, said he did not
know the new candidate. But Mr Powell is feeling guardedly optimistic about the
seat and points out that the European elections were won by the Tories with a
3,500 majority. But less than a fortnight ago, a by-election for a district seat
and for an Essex county council seat, following a Tory councillor's death,
resulted in Labour gaining the district seat and the Liberal Democrats gaining
the county ward.

Martin McNeil, the editor of the Basildon Evening Echo, said: "I think they the
Tories were surprised to lose ... the Labour MP is fairly well entrenched,
though she works with a predominantly Conservative council. Who will win the
seat in the general election is not easy to predict." The by-election loss is an
indication of the rusting away of the local party infrastructure.

In Margaret Thatcher's old seat of Finchley, boundary changes and Tory
unpopularity in 1997 combined to give Labour a 15 per cent swing. Rudi Vis, the
current Labour MP, still managed to get re-elected in 2001 with a majority of
3,716.

Here there is a sparky new Tory candidate, Andrew Mennear, a member of Camden
council who has already built a high profile and has the incentive of good
results in the Greater London Assembly elections. But if he loses, by the
following election the local infrastructure is unlikely to undergo renewal.

Party bosses play down old-fashioned campaign methods of foot-slogging and
cheese and wine parties, pointing to the voters' disengagement with politics
between elections and their indifference to irritating door-knocking by
canvassers - who hate the job anyway.

They point to new technology, mail shots and telephone canvassing as more
effective. But unless a local organisation is maintained, a party can rarely
win. In any event, money is required. Here further evidence suggests that, after
next year's general election the Tory Party will be nearly bankrupt. Already the
donations, which revived momentarily after Mr Howard took over, appear to be
drying up as donors wonder whether they are simply blowing their money to the
wind. The Tories will beg or borrow enough to run the forthcoming campaign but
they will be in dire financial straits thereafter.

If there is no perception of any long-term progress, both moneymaking activities
and political activity at local level go into a tailspin. After an initial blip
in the polls - coinciding with Labour woes surrounding top-up fees and the
fall-out from the Hutton report, the Tories have gone backwards.

On the face of it, the fourth place at last Thursday's Hartlepool suggests that
Mr Howard is doing worse than Iain Duncan Smith. Certainly it seems impossible
for them to win the next general election and the mood of despair among Tory MPs
is as bad as last year. It was assumed that a change of leader would safeguard
all the 166 seats currently held and that the party could only win seats.

But the UKIP factor suggests that a number of incumbent Tory MPs, already
worried about the Liberal Democrats in second place, are also in danger of
losing. The same risk from UKIP in marginal Labour seats threatens to prevent
Tories from making some gains. But it is not all gloom. The very advance of the
Liberal Democrats against Labour, demonstrated at all the recent by-elections is
a secret weapon for the Tories in a number of constituencies.

Take Hove or Hastings & Rye, in East Sussex. These were safe Tory seats lost in
1997 to Labour, where the present Tory candidates, Nicholas Boles and Mark
Coote, believe that Labour switchers - because of disillusion over Tony Blair's
leadership and the war in Iraq - can, by voting Liberal Democrat, help the
Tories win. These Tories could therefore get elected without necessarily gaining
a single Tory vote - provided, of course there is no nibbling effect from UKIP.

Professor John Curtice of Strathclyde University supports their claim. "Even if
the Tories are going nowhere, merely by standing still in some constituencies,
this will be good enough to gain some seats under the capriciousness of the
first-past-the-post electoral system," he said.

So there is some evidence to suggest that while some sitting Tory MPs may lose
to Liberal Democrats - also thanks to switchers from Labour to Liberal Democrat
where Labour are placed third, more tactical voting - in seats represented by
the likes of Oliver Letwin, Theresa May or David Davis, all members of the
Shadow Cabinet, this can be compensated for by gains in Labour marginals.

The Tories claim that a poll in the crucial 130 top target seats puts them ahead
although this does not seem to square with other polls. But there is enough
evidence to show that the Tories will still be the largest opposition party
after the next election and an arguable case can still be made that they will
end up with more seats - I'll stick my neck out and go for 50 - than they do
now.

But that would still leave them with less seats than Michael Foot's Labour Party
won at the 1983 general election - so thereafter it may well struggle to
survive. If it does die, it will be slow, painful and lingering death.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              261 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: CONSERVATIVE SPLITS EXPOSED AS WILLETTS URGES TAX CUTS
FOR POOR

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF AND COLIN BROWN Liam Fox: Asylum policy - no lurch to the
right'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 708 words


ONE OF Michael Howard's Shadow Cabinet members last night appealed to him not to
introduce tax cuts for the rich but to focus them on "people with modest
incomes" and "those families finding it hard to make ends meet".

In a clear message to Mr Howard to avoid trying to win back the Tory core vote
by a shift to the right, David Willetts challenged the Conservative leader to
"go with the grain of human nature" and "help families that are under stress" by
cutting their taxes rather than the tax of the wealthiest.

Oliver Letwin will today promise to cut five taxes that he will list as unfair:
council tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty, income tax and national insurance, and
tax on pensions. The shadow Chancellor will avoid spelling out details, pending
a review of waste on public spending, but senior party officials confirmed that
tax cuts would be at the centre of the Tory election campaign.

In an interview with The Independent, Mr Willetts, the shadow Work and Pensions
Secretary, whose Havant constituency includes one of the most deprived council
estates in England, said he wanted to see the Tories "do things that help
low-income families".

He added: "I think a Conservative debate over the next few months about which
taxes we are able to reduce over time is the right way to go. I very much hope
and believe that those tax reductions will lift the burden on the people I
represent here. It's very important that we do that. What I am interested in is
the burden of taxes on people with modest incomes," he said. "It would be good
to ease the burden of tax on those families finding it hard to make ends meet. I
hope and believe there will be room to cut particular taxes."

Mr Willetts said the poorest 20 per cent of the population, including many
pensioners, were paying the highest proportion of tax under Labour. "Pensioners
pay almost as much council tax as they pay income tax. If there are ways of
alleviating the burden of council tax on poorer people I think that would be a
great thing to do."

Mr Willett's shot across the bows on the first day of the Conservative
conference in Bourne-mouth follows fears that the Tories may retreat behind
their core vote after their disastrous showing in the Hartlepool by-election,
where they came fourth behind the United Kingdom Independence Party.

He joined several Tory front- bench spokesmen, including Andrew Lansley, calling
on Mr Howard to show the Conservatives' softer side and avoid a lurch to the
right to counter the threat from UKIP. Mr Willetts said the Hartlepool result
was "very frustrating" and showed the Tories "had not yet convinced people",
adding: "We have to do more to show we have a practical set of policies that
will make Britain a better place. We still need to do more just to show that we
are comfortable with British society as it is and tackle the problems in Britain
today."

He urged Mr Howard to return to his first aspiration to lead a party "broad in
appeal and generous in outlook" representing all Britain and all Britons. "That
is still the lode-stone that has to guide us," Mr Willetts said. "We have to be
remorselessly focused, starting with this conference, on making mainstream
British life better."

This week, Mr Willetts will announce plans to privatise job centres to allow
commercial companies, such as Manpower, and charities to compete with state
providers. "We are looking radically at ways in which we can replace Job Centre
Plus and the New Deal," he said. "Job Centre plus is not working."

Liam Fox, the Conservative joint chairman, will deny in his conference speech
today that stopping Britain being a soft touch for asylum-seekers amounted to "a
lurch to the right but an overdue response to the real anxieties expressed by
the British people".

Gordon Brown yesterday interrupted his G7 meeting to attack the Tories for
offering "unbelievable promises" on taxes. In Washington, he said: "We must
persuade the country to reject the increasingly right- wing ConservativeParty
which would divide the country and expose the threat of their policies of
economic irresponsibility, privatisation and cuts will pose to our stability,
prosperity and public services."

Interview, page 29

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              262 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: WILLETTS AND LETWIN EXPOSE RIFT OVER PLAN TO AIM TAX CUTS
AT RICH

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF AND COLIN BROWN Oliver Letwin: Promises to cut five taxes

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words


ONE OF Michael Howard's Shadow Cabinet members last night appealed to him to
focus tax cuts on "those ... finding it hard to make ends meet".

In a clear message to Mr Howard to avoid trying to win back the Tory core vote
with a shift to the right, David Willetts challenged the Conservative leader to
"go with the grain of human nature" and "help families that are under stress" by
cutting their taxes rather than the taxes of the wealthiest.

Oliver Letwin will today promise to cut five taxes that he will list as unfair:
council tax, inheritance tax, income tax and national insurance, stamp duty and
tax on pensions. The shadow Chancellor will avoid spelling out details, pending
a review of waste on public spending, but senior party officials confirmed that
tax cuts would be at the centre of the Tory election campaign.

In an interview with The Independent, Mr Willetts, the shadow Work and Pensions
Secretary, whose Havant constituency includes one of the most deprived council
estates in England, said he wanted to see the Tories "do things that help
low-income families".

He added: "A Conservative debate over the next few months about which taxes we
are able to reduce over time is the right way to go. I very much hope and
believe that those tax reductions will lift the burden on the people I represent
here. It's very important that we do that," he said. "It would be good to ease
the burden of tax on those families finding it hard to make ends meet."

Mr Willetts said the poorest 20 per cent of the population, including many
pensioners, were paying the highest proportion of tax under Labour. "Pensioners
pay almost as much council tax as they pay income tax. If there are ways of
alleviating the burden of council tax on poorer people, I think that would be a
great thing to do."

Mr Willetts' shot across the bows on the first day of the Tory conference in
Bournemouth follows fears that the Tories may retreat behind their core vote
after their disastrous showing in the Hartlepool by-election, where they came
fourth behind the UK Independence Party.

He joined several Tory front- bench spokesmen, including Andrew Lansley, calling
on Mr Howard to show the Conservatives' softer side and avoid a lurch to the
right to counter the threat from UKIP. Mr Willetts said the Hartlepool result
showed the Tories "had not yet convinced people", adding: "We have to do more to
show we have a practical set of policies that will make Britain a better place.
We still need to do more just to show that we are comfortable with British
society as it is and tackle the problems in Britain today."

In a further blow to Mr Howard, a poll for The Times by Populus gave Labour a
7-point lead over the Tories: Labour 35 per cent; Tories 28 per cent; and the
Liberal Democrats 25 per cent. The poll suggests that the Conservatives are now
even less popular than a year ago, when Iain Duncan Smith was leader. Mr Howard
said he would set out a timetable for action under a Tory government to overcome
scepticism of all politicians by the electorate.

Mr Willetts urged Mr Howard to return to his first aspiration to lead a party
"broad in appeal and generous in outlook" representing all of Britain. "That is
still the lodestone that has to guide us," Mr Willetts said. "We have to be
remorselessly focused, starting with this conference, on making mainstream
British life better."

This week, Mr Willetts will announce plans to privatise job centres. "We are
looking radically at ways in which we can replace Job Centre Plus and the New
Deal," he said.

Liam Fox, the Conservative joint chairman, will deny in his conference speech
today that stopping Britain being a soft touch for asylum-seekers amounted to "a
lurch to the right but an overdue response to the real anxieties expressed by
the British people".

In Washington, Gordon Brown interrupted his G7 meeting to attack the Tories for
offering "unbelievable promises" on taxes. He said: "We must persuade the
country to reject the increasingly right-wing Conservative Party, which would
divide the country, and expose the threat of their policies of economic
irresponsibility, privatisation and cuts will pose to our stability, prosperity
and public services."

Interview, page 29

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              263 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: KILROY-SILK LAYS CLAIM TO THE LEADERSHIP OF UKIP

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR A Labour Party poster shows Michael
Howard as the Dandy' cartoon character Desperate Dan Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 446 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK yesterday made a blatant grab for the leadership of the UK
Independence Party by urging its lacklustre current leader, Roger Knapman, to
quit before the general election

The former chat-show host said a majority of UKIP members wanted him to lead the
party into the next general election. But last night, party supporters at their
conference in Bristol rallied behind Mr Knapman.

Mr Kilroy-Silk eclipsed Mr Knapman on Saturday by calling on UKIP to "kill off"
the dying Tory Party. He used a television interview to undermine Mr Knapman as
he was celebrating his party's success in beating the Tories into fourth place
in the Hartlepool by-election.

"I would like to be leader of UKIP. I think I could turn it into a very
effective, electoral fighting force," Mr Kilroy-Silk said on the BBC's Breakfast
with Frost show. "What everybody tells me they want is for the current leader to
accept the inevitable and to stand down. That's the only way it can happen."

He added: "I'm told there's a vast majority of the party who would like that to
happen, and indeed during the last June elections, the current leader told me
and others that he would step down after the election - but then of course he
got a massive election result and probably liked the size of his new train set
and now he's changed his mind - that's fine."

Asked whether he thought he would make a better leader, Mr Kilroy-Silk said:
"Well I wouldn't be wanting to be the leader if I didn't think that, would I?
Now you will think that's arrogant and presumptuous and I'll get accused of all
those things but of course I think it would be better, otherwise I wouldn't want
to stand."

Paul Sykes, the multimillionaire Eurosceptic, made it clear at the weekend he
wanted Mr Kilroy-Silk to be the leader before guaranteeing more funding for the
party. Mr Kilroy-Silk said he would be standing for the Westminster Parliament
at the next election, and is expected to stand against Geoff Hoon, the Defence
Secretary.

Last night Mr Knapman hit back, denying he had offered to stand down, saying he
was "happy" with his record as leader and had no intention of resigning to let
Mr Kilroy-Silk lead the party into the general election. "If I ever felt it was
in the party's interests for me to stand down I would certainly consider it," he
said. "I am here to serve. I have done my best for the party and I am happy with
my record, the party is still growing. I fully anticipate serving a full
four-year term as leader."

UKIP also revealed yesterday the former TV chef, Rusty Lee, is the latest
celebrity to join their parliamentary candidates for the next election.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              264 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

MONDAY INTERVIEW: DAVID WILLETTS CONSERVATIVE MP FOR HAVANT AND SPOKESMAN ON
WORK AND PENSIONS - WE HAVE NOT CONVERTED DEEP DISILLUSION WITH LABOUR INTO
ACTIVE SUPPORT FOR THE TORIES'

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT David Willetts says the
Conservatives have to do more to show they have a practical set of policies to
make Britain a better place Allan Hutchings/Solent News

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1542 words


DAVID WILLETTS is driving through his constituency in his battered, blue Volvo.
"This is the Tampax factory," he says. "We used to be Britain's biggest supplier
of Tampax. If you looked closely at a Tampax packet it said Made in Havant'. Now
it says Made in Romania'."

The collapse of the feminine-hygiene industry in Havant is of considerable
concern to Mr Willetts, whose urban sprawl of a constituency has a disquieting
level of unemployment. Luckily, for the people of Havant, their MP is an
employment expert, brimming with ideas on how to find them jobs. Indeed, he is
so dedicated to improving their prospects he donated his shirts to an employment
centre so youngsters from the local council estate could look presentable when
they went to interviews.

People did not have smart clothes for interviews so I contributed these shirts,"
he says. "They were normal shirts. I don't wear Jermyn Street. The problem was
my bloody neck has thickened."

At the Wheatsheaf Trust job centre on the Leigh Park estate, where, it seems, Mr
Willetts' smart Tory shirts have been quietly disposed of, they are pleased to
see their local MP. The shadow Work and Pensions Secretary is immediately
accosted by several job-seekers, one of whom saw him on television at 2.30am
commenting on the Hartlepool by-election.

Mr Willetts had the unenviable task of explaining why the Conservatives came
fourth behind UKIP and the Liberal Democrats. "It was a blow," he says. "I
wouldn't disguise it. "The fact that the Lib Dems almost took Hartlepool is very
frustrating. It is disappointing and the frustration is that we have not yet
convinced people. We have to do more to show that we have a practical set of
politics that will make Britain a better place."

Mr Willetts believes this week's conference must be used to show the
Conservatives have answers "for making mainstream British life better". But he
suggests the task will be an uphill struggle.

"We have not succeeded in converting this deep disillusionment with Labour into
the active support for us I would like to see," he says. "We still need to do
more just to show we are comfortable with British society as it is, and tackling
the problems in Britain today."

As one of the few caring Conservatives left in Michael Howard's senior team, Mr
Willetts thinks the party must do more to demonstrate it is "rooted in everyday
Britain". He adds: "There are still people who think Tories are people in
three-piece suits being served dry sherries by their butlers. You would be
amazed the number of people who think that is what we are like."

Mr Willetts, who slows his car down to point out a building destroyed by
arsonists, says for the Tories to have any hope of regaining power it must win
urban constituencies much like his own. "One of the problems is that we have
been driven back to our rural heartland. It is very important that we make
progress in urban Britain."

Mr Howard, in his call to arms before becoming party leader, said Conservatives
must be "broad in appeal and generous in outlook" and "capable of representing
all Britain and all Britons". Mr Willetts, one of the original Tory "mods" who
backed Michael Portillo against Iain Duncan Smith, warns Mr Howard not to stray
from the laudable aspirations he set out in the Saatchi Gallery last year.

"It was a very powerful speech. It was a great speech. That is still the
lodestar that has to guide us," he says pointedly.

But it appears Mr Willetts' pleas to stay on course could be ignored. In the
recent reshuffle, he was moved from his role overseeing the party's election
manifesto. He was not the only moderniser to be shifted aside. Damian Green and
John Bercow left the Shadow Cabinet with Julie Kirkbride, one of the few women
on the front bench.

"I am sorry to see Damian leave the front bench," Mr Willetts says, almost
wistfully. "I was sorry to see Julie go; I was sorry to see John Bercow go."

Mr Willetts continues to hold the torch for caring Conservatism in the Shadow
Cabinet. He says any tax cuts promised by the Tories at the next election should
be for the poorest "who pay the highest proportion of their income in tax" and
those struggling to save for their retirement.

But his altruistic view that the Tories should look at where "the shoe is
pinching" first could put him at loggerheads with neo-Conservatives who want tax
cuts for the rich. "I very much hope and believe that those tax reductions will
be lifting the burden on the people I represent here. It's very important we do
that. It would be good to ease the burden of tax on those families finding it
hard to make ends meet."

Mr Willetts says that over the "next few months" there will be "a Conservative
debate about which taxes we are able to reduce over time". He adds: "What I am
interested in is the burden of taxes on people with modest incomes. Pensioners
pay almost as much council tax as they pay income tax. If there are ways of
alleviating the burden of council tax on poorer people I think that would be a
great thing to do."

Mr Willetts is examining ways to help reduce council tax bills for pensioners.
He is also looking at reform of the child tax credit for low-income families and
an overhaul of the national insurance system, which penalises women pensioners
who have not had a consistent employment history.

"The national insurance contribution rules rest on assumptions about the way
women conduct their lives which just no longer apply, which are not 21st-century
Britain," he says.

One idea he is looking at is reform of the rule requiring a minimum 10 years of
contributions before people qualify for a pension. At times, Mr Willetts he
looks as if he would burst with enthusiasm, like an ultra- brainy sixth former
who has done his physics homework before everyone else. With his long neck and
natural egg-headedness, he retains the air of scholarship boy even at age 48.
Change jangles in his blazer pocket as he walks, and he listens to bands that
include Keane and Coldplay on the quiet.

Mr Willetts' latest brainy wheeze is to privatise job centres and let charities
and commercial firms compete. "One of the problems with the New Deal is that so
much of the money ends up going into conventional job centres and there should
be more going into outside providers, charitable, voluntary sector, independent
sector even commercial," he says.

Recently, Mr Willetts, who served in Margaret Thatcher's policy unit in the
1980s, came up with one of the Tories' most successful, if counterintuitive
policies: he persuaded the party to restore the link between pensions and
earnings which Mrs Thatcher broke soon after she took power. "With the earnings
link, I was conscious that part of the subtext of it was showing that the
Conservative Party is changing," he says. "It does show that we know why people
kicked us out in 1997, we understand what they thought about us and we are
trying to respond to that." At the party's annual conference two years ago, Mr
Willetts declared historically that "the war with lone parents is over". But
questions remain whether this is true. Part of the cash to restore the link
between pensions and earnings will come from savings accrued from forcing lone
parents with children over the age of 11 to get a job.

"Research shows the outcomes for the children of lone parents, especially the
daughters, is much better if the mother is in employment," he says. "We have to
look people in the eye and say this makes society a better place, this tackles a
social problem." Prophetically, Mr Willetts has warned that Britain is heading
for a "baby bust" when so few women are having children there will not be enough
people to support pensioners.

But although he wants bigger families, the Tory MP studiously avoids encouraging
teenage mothers or women living on benefits to procreate more profusely. "I am
not going to pick on some groups and say have children and other groups not. I
am not getting into all this class stuff. By and large, teenage parents do not
provide good outcomes for their children so that is not something I want to
encourage."

Mr Willetts blames high house prices for depressing the birth rate, saying they
are "a form of contraceptive". He also believes "feminism is the new natalism"
and if women are given more help to combine work and family life they will
increase the size of their families.

But he draws the line at offering state cash to women as an incentive to breed.
"The French have strong fiscal incentives," he says. "Here's a bribe for having
a kid; out pops the baby and here's pounds 1,000." Then he pauses, adding with
wonkish enthusiasm: "They are experimenting with this in Estonia where they have
incredibly low birth rates."

THE CV

Born: 9 March 1956

Education King Edward's school, Birmingham;

Christ Church, Oxford (PPE)

2001 Shadow spokesman for work and pensions

1998 Shadow spokesman for education and employment

1996 Paymaster General, Office of Public Service

1995 Parliamentary Secretary, Office of Public Service

1995 Government whip

1992 Elected MP for Havant

1987 Director of Studies, Centre for Policy Studies

1978 HM Treasury

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR HOWARD'S MOST URGENT TASK IS TO SHAPE A CONVINCING
ALTERNATIVE TO NEW LABOUR

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 678 words


MICHAEL HOWARD was looking surprisingly cheerful in his public appearances
yesterday. From his interview on Breakfast with Frost to his arrival at his
Bournemouth conference hotel, the Conservative Party leader appeared determined
to prove the doom-watchers wrong. Which was a brave, if not foolhardy, approach
to take.

For even by its own recent dismal standards, the Conservative Party has not been
doing well. Mr Howard's elevation to the leadership may have livened up Prime
Minister's Questions, but it has not livened up the party or significantly
improved its electoral showing. The party's fourth place in last week's
Hartlepool by-election was its worst performance for years. Even friendly
pundits are now asking whether the party has any sort of a future in the 21st
century. And when the Prime Minister said in his conference speech last week
that his government was "lucky in our Opposition", he was not exaggerating. In
terms of the lack of serious competition in Parliament, Mr Blair has been very
fortunate indeed.

The central question this week is what Mr Howard can do to revive his party's
prospects. The UK Independence Party is a threat that Mr Howard will have to
confront head on. As Hartlepool showed, UKIP is taking most of its votes from
the Tories, but this may be less because it is anti- Europe than because it is
seen as putting British interests first and offering a single, nationalistic
idea with verve and style. Mr Howard has a chance of overcoming UKIP, not by
lurching to the right, but by showing that UKIP's single-issue obsession is not
a desirable or viable platform for a serious party.

Mr Howard will also have to address the vexed question of the Iraq war and his
party's support for it. If only, some must lament, the party had listened to the
likes of Kenneth Clarke and Lord Hurd and opposed the war - where would it be
now in the polls? It is too late for regret, but Mr Howard could do worse than
borrow a point or two from John Kerry's US debate stance last week if he wants
to support the principle of the war, while denouncing the outcome.

The greatest problem for the Tories, though, is the extent to which Mr Blair's
New Labour project has occupied the broad centre and some traditionally
centre-right ground (law and order, immigration) as well. It was noteworthy how,
in his early months as leader, Mr Howard seemed intent on contesting precisely
those areas where the Government was perceived to have tried and failed. He
challenged Labour on school standards and hospitals, on conditions on council
estates, on race relations and on law and order. This was a bold approach, but
it was bungled.

Proposals for school and health vouchers, dubbed "passports", were poorly
presented. Such policies, if properly thought out, however, could still have
mileage. So could Tory considerations on law and order and immigration, but only
if Mr Howard can resist the temptation to attack from the perspective of the
crude, xenophobic right. As shadow Home Secretary, Oliver Letwin showed how to
score points against David Blunkett with arguments that rested on a strict
interpretation of the law, coupled with humanitarian considerations. Mr Howard's
decision to replace Mr Letwin with David Davis and, recently, to bring John
Redwood into the Shadow Cabinet smacked of nostalgia, not a quest for more
modern policies.

Taxation and pensions are also areas where the Tories could appeal to old and
new constituencies, including those sections of the middle classes disillusioned
with New Labour. They resent the erosion of their pensions, have borne the brunt
of "stealth" taxes, and are looking for someone to represent their interests.

The single most disappointing aspect of Mr Howard's leadership to date has not
been his party's failure at the ballot box so much as his failure to shape the
party into a convincing alternative government. It is in the interests of
everyone in this country, the Prime Minister included, for there to be a
thriving Opposition. It is still sorely missed.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

THE TORIES CAN STILL WIN THE GENERAL ELECTION, BUT ONLY IF THEY REMEMBER TO KEEP
IT SIMPLE

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1188 words


As Peter Mandelson spent many years trying to discomfit the Conservative Party,
it is appropriate that his departure from the Commons should have led to one of
the Tories' worst ever by-election results. They did have a solitary piece of
luck. Tony Blair's heart problem kept Hartlepool out of the headlines. But on
Friday, the Tory party's need for defibrillation was at least as great as the
Prime Minister's.

Not that Tory strategists are in despair, yet. They argue that, although the two
leading parties are both stuck at around 32 per cent in the polls, there is a
difference. Given the depth of resentment among those who have turned against Mr
Blair, Labour will find it hard to climb back to the low 40s. The Tories face
lesser obstacles. They are not contending with anger and a sense of betrayal,
merely with a generalised disenchantment along the lines of: "You politicians
are all the same. Why should we trust any of you?"

It will not be easy to induce the large number of voters who talk in that way to
renounce their sullen scepticism. But the Tories' opinion- poll analysts are
certain that they have at least identified the wrong solution to their electoral
problem. They are convinced that the answer does not lie in big ideas or exalted
language. They were surprised that Labour chose "A Better Life For All" as the
party conference slogan. In the Tories' view, that is just the sort of verbiage
which creates electoral cynicism.

"If you are trying to come up with a new roads policy," said one of Michael
Howard's closer advisors, "it's no use talking about a transport system worthy
of the 21st century. That just switches the voters straight off. Instead, say
that these are the 10 roads which we will build, right away. Then people can
look at a map. They'll see something realistic and believable."

Believability is the key. To paraphrase St Paul: "Though I speak with the
tongues of men, and of angels, and have not credibility, I am become as sounding
brass or a tinkling cymbal."

Convinced that this now describes Tony Blair's problem with large numbers of
voters, the Tories have been searching for credibility. This has both shaped and
limited their pre-manifesto document, to be published at the end of the
conference. It will only be three or four pages long, which might seem curious
given that it has been so much discussed and drafted over. But the restrictions
on space and content are deliberate.

Is is not meant to offer sunlit uplands, rainbow promises, or agendas for a
radical decade. Instead, the tone will be terse, practical, step- by-step. It
will start by describing the immediate action which a Tory government would take
on its first day in office. It will move on to the next tasks, to be
accomplished within the first week. Then, there will be an account of what a
Tory government would have achieved after a mere month in power. The working
title should have been "Measure By Measure".

The Tories believe that all this has a further advantage in that it plays to
Michael Howard's strengths. He is a realist, not a rhetorician; a doer, not a
philosopher. If he assures the public, and regularly repeats the assurance, that
he will proceed on the basis of practical policies which have been worked out in
detail, he is more likely to catch their attention. It is much better for him to
contrast himself with Blairite afflatus than to try to imitate it.

The Tories also console themselves with focus-group material which seems to
point to a susceptibility to the Tory case. Most voters believe that there is
too much central-government control over schools and hospitals. They think that
policemen spend far too much time on paperwork, and far too little time out on
the streets, catching criminals. They are convinced that the asylum system is
out of control, that the Government wastes vast amounts of money and that a
third-term Labour government would have to raise taxes.

The Tories are certain that, if they were to offer a pledge to cut taxes they
would not be believed, but that there is enough mileage in promising to
eliminate sufficient waste to make the Labour tax rise unnecessary.

Above all, the Tories believe that au fond, most voters' values are still
conservative, and that they are open to persuasion by a phrase which Chris
Patten wrote for Margaret Thatcher back in the Seventies. "The facts of life are
Tory." So not all senior Tories are as despondent as one might have thought they
would be, post-Hartlepool. By the end of the week, that could change.

This is the most important Tory party conference for 41 years, since Blackpool
in 1963, when the resignation of Harold Macmillan unleashed seven species of
chaos, as the candidates for the succession tried to turn the proceedings into a
beauty contest, with limited success. Bournemouth is unlikely to see such drama,
but the Tories are in desperate need of a bounce. Mr Howard has to make an
outstanding speech, the mini-manifesto needs to be well received, and the entire
front bench must sing from the same hymn book.

Given a scintilla of a chance, much of the media will impose its own
interpretation on the Tories' proceedings: "Lurch to the right", "Sop to the
left", "Desperate attempt to appease UKIP voters" - et al. In order for the
Tories to avoid this and to ensure that their own spin prevails, leading party
figures will have to display more self-discipline than the Tories have proved
capable of since the late Eighties.

There ought to be one incentive to good discipline; the gallop towards the
election campaign has already begun, so time is desperately short. As another
leading Tory put it recently: "I wish we were back in the autumn of 2003, and
even if we were, I'd still be saying that we had a tremendous amount to do." The
Tories are now at time's mercy.

It is not inevitable that this will work to their disadvantage. When outlining
their plans, devout Christians used to add "d.v.": deo volente, God willing. The
Tory party now has its own d.v., standing for disillusion - with Mr Blair - and
volatility. Many millions of voters have still to make up their minds how they
will vote, or whether they will vote at all.

It is not certain that this will work in the Tories' favour. If they are to turn
volatile voters in their direction, they will have to be much more effective in
putting across their message than they have been for a dozen years. But there is
one point on which we can be certain. Mr Blair has a far greater task. Many of
his former voters are bruised, scarred and outraged. In previous elections, it
was assumed that Prime Ministers who had endured a difficult mid-term would
benefit from an almost automatic recovery as the general election approached.
That may no longer be valid. Up until recently, Mr Blair seemed immune from
mid-terms. His popularity was always high, like a triumphant souffle.

Now that the souffle is in trouble, it may be that no amount of tinkling can
make it rise again. The Tories may still have to find their orchestra, but these
days Mr Blair's merely produces cacophony.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              267 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

LETTER: NO NEED FOR THE TORIES

BYLINE: SAM BOOTE

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 88 words


Sir: After the Hartlepool by-election, voters may be entitled to ask what the
Tory party is for. A general right-wing agenda is provided by New Labour. Hard
right-wing euroscepticism and a hard line on immigration and asylum are the
attributes of UKIP. A general centre-left liberal agenda is available from the
Liberal Democrats. New Labour and UKIP have stolen the Tories' clothes. Michael
Howard is now an ineffective and irrelevant sideshow. There is no longer any
need for a Tory party.

SAM BOOTE

Nottingham

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              268 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

KILROY BID TO CONTROL UKIP

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk made his move for the leadership of the UK Independence Party
yesterday, urging members to tell present chief Roger Knapman it was time to go.

The MEP, who joined UKIP five months ago, accused Mr Knapman of reneging on an
assurance he would step down after the June 10 Euro elections.

But he admitted that there was no mechanism for him to challenge Mr Knapman. The
ex-TV host told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost most members wanted him as leader
and he could turn the party into an "effective electoral fighting force".

But Mr Knapman hit back saying: "It is not within my grasp to come to such a
deal and indeed such a deal was never come to or even discussed."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              269 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH: WEEK OF THE LIVING DEAD: 51%' OF TORY VOTERS DO NOT TRUST
HOWARD'S TORIES

BYLINE: DAVID SEYMOUR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 431 words

HIGHLIGHT: FIGURE OF FUN: Labour poster mocks Howard in Bournemouth yesterday;
SMILE: Howard yesterday


MORE than half of Tory voters in Michael "Dracula" Howard's own constituency do
not trust the party to carry out its promises.

The blow comes as his party conference opens in turmoil today in Bournemouth.

Our exclusive Mirror poll was conducted in Mr Howard's Folkestone and Hythe
constituency - the first time his local voters have been tested like this.

The ICM survey shows Mr Howard should cling to his seat in Parliament but
indicates he has picked up a mere three per cent of voters since the Tories'
2001 disaster.

They need a swing of almost 11 per cent across the country to beat Tony Blair.

The survey also reveals nearly 50 per cent of voters in his constituency don't
think the Tory leader is doing a good job.

Nick Sparrow of ICM told the Mirror: "Since the last election their MP has
become party leader so you might think that would give him a boost."

Just 53 per cent of voters in Folkestone were satisfied with the job he is doing
- only a few points more than Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy on 45 per
cent.

The poll also reveals many Tory voters do not believe in their party's policies.

Only two out of three back their plans for the health service, education and
Europe, with the same number saying they are "in touch with issues that matter
to me".

Mr Sparrow said: "A party should have solid support on the key issues among
their own supporters. The Conservatives haven't in the constituency of their own
leader."

The poll's snapshot of voting intention shown gives a close-up of the mountain
the Tories must climb.

About 1,000 who went for Labour in 2001 will now vote for the Conservatives. But
some 700 Tory voters say they are switching to the UK Independence Party and
another 400 plan to change to the Liberal Democrats.

The poll was taken before the Hartlepool by-election where the Tories came
fourth behind UKIP.

ICM interviewed 500 people aged 18 plus in Folkestone and Hythe on Sept 25/26.

DO YOU THINK THE TORIES..

Can be trusted to keep their promises? ALLVOTERS . . . . .20% TORY VOTERS . . .
.49%

Have right ideas on EU? ALLVOTERS . . . . .32% TORY VOTERS . . . .65%

Are in touch with issues that matter? ALLVOTERS . . . . .33% TORY VOTERS . . .
.67%

-Will make right decisions on tax?

ALLVOTERS . . . . .38% TORY VOTERS . . . .71%

Have right ideas on education? ALLVOTERS . . . . .35% TORY VOTERS . . . .67%

Can be trusted to run the economy? ALLVOTERS . . . . .40% TORY VOTERS . . . .76%

Have right ideas on NHS? ALLVOTERS . . . . .33% TORY VOTERS . . . .63%

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              270 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH: WEEK OF THE LIVING DEAD: HOWARD IS TRAILING IDS

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 112 words


THE Conservatives are less popular now than they were at the same time last year
when Iain Duncan Smith was leader, a poll revealed last night.

Support for the party has slipped by two points to 28 per cent while Labour is
up three points to 35 per cent.

It is the Tories' lowest poll rating since Michael Howard took over. He also
recorded his lowest ever rating as leader.

On a 10-point scale he stands at 4.15 - lower than Tony Blair and Charles
Kennedy.

The Populus poll for The Times also indicated that more than two-thirds of Tory
supporters want the party to take a more Eurosceptic direction with some
defecting to the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              271 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: TORIES STILL NOT IN THE REAL WORLD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 329 words


WAS it only a year ago that the Tories were in despair because Iain Duncan Smith
was their leader?>

Amazingly, it was.

He received a hypocritical standing ovation when he told their conference: "The
quiet man is back."

Within weeks, the quiet man was gone. To be replaced by Michael Howard, hailed
as their saviour.

Now another Tory conference begins and he is in a worse mess than Mr Duncan
Smith was.

His party is lower in the polls, they have just had their worst ever beating in
a by-election and even Mr Howard's own Conservative voters don't trust him to
keep his promises.

What makes it even more extraordinary is that Tony Blair is hardly popular with
voters.

You might think they would go flooding to the Tories. Not at all. There is
barely a movement to them. The Liberal Democrats are picking up some as are the
fringe eccentrics of the UK Independence Party. The rest would prefer to forego
their democratic rights and stay at home rather than cast a vote for Michael
Howard's Conservatives.

Is that really so surprising, though? His big idea has been to bring back John
Redwood, who wants to slash pounds 18billion from public spending, destroying
the NHS, state education and the welfare system.

The Tory party is dying because it is almost entirely inhabited by people like
Mr Redwood and Peter Stringfellow - though at 63 he is young for a party member
- who are narrow-minded, unrepresentative and uncaring.

They haven't got a clue about solving the problems of Britain because they are
not interested in ordinary people and their problems.

They are bundles of hate - they loathe Tony Blair, Labour, the unions, workers,
the European Union, foreigners and people they call scroungers.

Their ambition is to slash taxes for the rich. The real scroungers.

This week in Bournemouth they will be navel-gazing while trying to work out
where they are going wrong.

If they lived in the real world, they would know.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              272 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 4, 2004

JUST BE BOLD

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 254 words


THE state of the Tory party today is like that classic scene from Monty Python.

After seven years out of power, voters ask:

What have the Tories ever done for us?

Apart from lowering taxes, curbing union abuses, creating a home-owning society
and standing up to Europe, that is.

The fact is, people forget. And young voters never even knew.

That is why the latest poll shows only 19 per cent of voters are satisfied with
Labour's record.

But only 29 per cent would vote Tory.

Does that mean the party is wasting its time in Bournemouth this week?

Not at all.

The Tories HAVE come up with good policies over the past few weeks -such as on
inheritance tax and immigration quotas.

The problem is there aren't enough policies that appear radically different from
those of Labour.

It is vital that the Tories hammer home the message that the Lib Dems and UKIP
are extremists.

UKIP's Robert Kilroy-Silk showed on TV yesterday what a wild-eyed, power hungry
peacock he is.

Sadly, too many in the Shadow Cabinet look sick just as we need a robustly
healthy Opposition...

Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin is belatedly talking about taxes, but says it's
too soon to make specific promises.

With the election probably seven months away, how much longer is he going to
wait?

NOW is the time for the Tories to do what they do best: Be Tories.

Michael Howard must be his old forthright self and his party must be bold.

If you're going to go down, at least go down fighting.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              273 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 4, 2004

SICK..AND TIRED

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

SECTION: SUN BULLETIN ON POORLY TORIES; TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH

LENGTH: 785 words


Howard fights to stir party

THE Tories start their conference today desperately sick -and tired.

Leading lights in the Party are crippled by life-threatening anaemia, loss of
appetite and delusions of grandeur.

Troops have been laid low by the UKIP superbug, which devastated the Hartlepool
by-election and threatens to spread its spores nationwide.

Leader Michael Howard -pictured right, arriving in Bournemouth yesterday with
wife Sandra -knows the few who might ride to the rescue are standing well clear
to avoid contamination. Their macabre plan, if they have one, seems to be to
wait and pick the pockets of the dead.

The rest seem to have given up the ghost while waiting for someone to switch out
the lights.

This is the alarming bulletin on a party that governed Britain for most of the
last century.

While Tony Blair bounces back from his heart scare, the Tory pulse is barely
detectable.

They ARE getting some things right. In recent weeks the Tories have come up with
good policies on illegal immigration, crime and political correctness.

But after we branded it a Dead Parrot in 1998, the party has done little more
than clamber on to a ventilator.

The party that picked Britain up by the scruff of its neck under Margaret
Thatcher is on its knees -just when the country needs a robust Opposition.

After taking on all-comers to deliver the spectacular economic legacy which has
buoyed Labour through seven years, they have spiralled into decline.

The Labour Party, despite its seven years of waste and extravagance, is feeling
confident.

That is while taxes are soaring, violent crime is up and just 19 per cent of
voters are happy with Labour's record.

Yet only 29 per cent tell an ICM poll they would prefer a Tory government.

Labour may be riven by jealousy and wide open to a well-aimed attack.

But the Tories are too weak to raise a glove.

The moment is long overdue for a healthy, robust Opposition.

The Sun today sends this message to the Tory Party: "Get Well Soon -Your Country
Needs You."

DR KAVANAGH'S DIAGNOSIS: IT'S THE SNOREY PARTY

THERESA MAY

SHE'S the Tory spokeswoman on families, but Theresa appears to be claiming the
Incapacity Allowance after losing the will to work.

The former chairman (pictured right) has not fully recovered since branding
Tories the "nasty party".

Her condition may be caused by stress, depression or a bad back -all
traditionally difficult to diagnose.

Staff are worried because she has rarely been seen in public for several months.

And they are combing the grounds for the woman who is famed for her leopard skin
pattern footwear -rather than her nimble footwork.

A return to full political health would help the Tory quest for women voters.

OLIVER LETWIN

THE insipid Shadow Chancellor has a dangerously low blood count and needs a
complete transfusion of healthy red cells.

His brain works brilliantly but his message is often lost in transmission,
thanks to a weak spinal column and tendency to whisper.

An off-colour liver is also blamed for his faltering first steps on tax and
spending.

Simple to diagnose, hard to cure.

WILLIAM HAGUE

WIDELY seen as the team's fittest and strongest non-player.

But he suffers a personality disorder that makes riches seem more vital than
political power.

He's been asked repeatedly to give Michael Howard the benefit of his talent. But
he thinks he did enough when leader and can wait until his 50s. Elderly fans
say: "We could be dead by then." And so could the Tories.

DAVID DAVIS

THIS agoraphobic is terrified of leaving his office -especially when his leader
needs support.

The condition, aggravated by chronic ambition, is worst from Friday to Monday
when the Shadow Home Secretary rarely ventures from his Yorkshire constituency.

Shock treatment -a giant boot in the backside -has been administered with little
effect.

NICHOLAS SOAMES

LIKE his grandfather Sir Winston Churchill, this larger-than-life character is
the darling of the armed forces.

But his wobbling jowls are an alarming spectacle to millions of undecided
voters.

This is one heavyweight who desperately needs to go on an eating regime. Will he
try a crash diet at a health farm?

In his own words: "Not effing likely."

BORIS JOHNSON

ONE of the party's best radio and TV performers, he suffers multiple personality
disorder.

One moment, the hyperactive MP for Henley is a national newspaper columnist.

The next he's a TV quiz show host or magazine editor.

He has been voted one of the "coolest" men in the country. But he is rarely to
be seen in his real job -as Shadow Arts Minister.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              274 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 4, 2004

KILROY IN INDY BUST-UP

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH

LENGTH: 240 words


TORY fortunes were boosted yesterday when rivals the UK Independence Party
tipped into a civil war.

TV star Robert Kilroy-Silk triggered a bitter split by calling on UKIP leader
Roger Knapman to quit.

Euro MP Kilroy-Silk claimed the bulk of the fledgling party wants HIM as leader
and ordered his rival to resign.

But Mr Knapman -a former Tory MP -refused point blank to budge.

Kilroy-Silk told BBC1's Breakfast With Frost: "I owe it to the party and the
party owes it to itself to make a choice of what it wants to do.

"What everybody tells me they want is for the current leader to accept the
inevitable and to stand down."

Deal

He added: "I have been told by every senior member of the party that they would
like me to be leader.

"I am told there is a vast majority of the party who would like that to happen."

Kilroy-Silk also claimed Mr Knapman had broken a private promise to quit after
June's Euro elections.

But Mr Knapman, who is half way through a four-year term as leader, said: "There
was no deal, no discussion.

"I am here to serve. I have done my best for the party and I am happy with my
record."

UKIP's leadership split was a huge boost to the Tories on the eve of their
conference in Bournemouth.

The Conservatives were hammered into fourth place by UKIP in the Hartlepool
by-election last week.

And UKIP remains one of the most potent threats in marginal Tory seats.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              275 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

Tories told they are in freefall in urban Britain

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 8

LENGTH: 637 words


Expert in local elections says that Liberal Democrats are main opposition force
in many areas, Tom Baldwin reports

FRESH doubt was cast last night over the Tories' claims that they remained a
credible force in urban areas and were set to win 130 seats from Labour at the
next election.

The Times has obtained a copy of a private presentation made to senior members
of the party's high command by Tony Travers, Britain's leading expert in local
politics.

He listed dozens of large towns and cities which have become "freefall zones"
for the Conservatives and suggested that the Liberal Democrats were now the main
opposition force to Labour in these areas.

The presentation contrasted the strong local support enjoyed by the party in
1978, the year before the Tories last won power from Labour at a general
election, with the stark electoral reality facing them today.

These included Manchester, where the number of Conservative councillors has
fallen from forty-six in 1978 to zero in this year's local elections. Other
examples lifted were Knowsley (18 to 0), Liverpool (24 to 0), Gateshead (14 to
0), Newcastle (33 to 0) and Sheffield (24 to 2).

Professor Travers highlighted Manchester Withington, a parliamentary seat held
by Fred Silvester, the former Tory MP, between 1974 and 1987 under the headline
of "not Conservative territory?"

He said that the party's share of the vote had declined from 36 per cent when
the seat was lost to Labour in 1987 to less than 8 per cent in this year's local
elections.

Significantly, the Liberal Democrats had moved to second place in the 2001
general election and this year won almost 50 per cent of the vote in the council
poll.

Other towns where Conservative support has all but been wiped out and the number
of councillors now total less than five include Cambridge, Norwich, Durham,
Oxford, Reading, York and Rochdale. Disclosure of his findings follow last
week's by-election in Hartlepool where the Tories had been in second place at
the 2001 general election but now trail Labour, the Lib Dems and even the UK
Independence Party.

Professor Travers also identified the party's third-place failure this summer in
the Birmingham Hodge Hill and Leicester South by-elections, which he said
confirmed previous votes in local councils.

Liam Fox, the Tory chairman, later dismissed these by-elections as having taken
place in places that were "not natural Tory territory" but has since visited
Birmingham to launch a "city-seats initiative" that he said was "proof that
there are no no-go areas for the Conservatives".

Professor Travers said that there were some areas where the party maintained a
strong local government base, such as Dudley, Solihull, Trafford, Walsall,
Coventry and Peterborough, as well as "Essex Man" zones such as Thurrock,
Basildon, Southend and Chelmsford. But he went on to identify more than a dozen
other cities, including Birmingham, Leeds and Bradford where there had been "a
serious erosion of support" compared with 1978.

In London there was a similar story with Tory votes disappearing in boroughs
such as Hackney, Haringey, Islington, Lambeth, Lewisham and Southwark.

Professor Travers told senior Tories, including Steve Hilton, a special adviser
to Lord Saatchi, Ed Vaizey, Michael Howard's speech writer, and Gavin Barwell,
the party's chief operating officer, that the Conservatives needed to look "less
alien to urban voters".

He said that the Tories had continued to decline in areas such as Liverpool,
Sheffield and London where they had previously won support in the 1970s when the
Labour Government was in trouble.

He suggested that the Liberal Democrats are "filling an opposition vacuum
(because) the Conservatives are not capable of shedding their image from the
1980s".


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

All the parties are losing

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 1027 words


Politicians are failing not only to enthuse voters, but they are silent on the
biggest challenge to Britain

IT IS not possible for every party to suffer complete disaster at the same
general election, but they are having a damn good try. I do not need to speak of
the Tories, who are visiting Bournemouth in a mood of black depression.

The Labour Party has been thrown into even greater confusion by Tony Blair's
decision to fight the coming election as a lame duck, and then remain as prime
minister for most of the next Parliament. If a four-year leadership contest does
not finish off the Labour Party, I suppose that nothing will. For the next
Parliament, the Labour Party will be closed for repairs.

The Liberal Democrats have been doing rather better, but they have their
problems.

Hardly anyone thinks that Charles Kennedy ought to be, or could be, prime
minister. In local government seats, the Lib Dems have been virtually flat
lining for ten years, while the Conservatives have doubled their number of
councillors.

In The Orange Book, the brightest and best of the young Lib Dems explain just
how silly many of the party's cherished policies are.

The United Kingdom Independence Party had a real chance after the June European
elections, in which they pushed the Lib Dems into fourth place. They have not
yet completely blown it, but they are doing their best to return to the status
of a barmy army.

The UKIP has a real function as a single-issue party, but it has decided to
become a multi-issue party. It wants to renationalise the railways; and at least
one of its members wishes to bring back capital punishment. Robert Kilroy-Silk
would like to become its leader, and talks about the party's "destiny". Heaven
save us from politicians who talk about destiny; it is the surest sign that they
are losing their marbles.

Meanwhile, political commentators have been analysing the Hartlepool by election
by comparison with the 2001 general election, when there was no UKIP candidate.
A more useful analysis compared it with the June European elections, when the
UKIP was at its height. In June, Labour polled 32.5 per cent of the vote, and
rose to 40.7 per cent in last week's by-election. Plainly that is a Labour
recovery.

The UKIP in June got 19.8 per cent -their best result in the North East -but
fell to 10.2 per cent in September, losing nearly half their vote. That was a
failure for the UKIP. The Conservatives won 17 per cent in June, and fell 9.7
per cent in September, a poor result, but similar to earlier byelections. The
Lib Dems in June were in fourth place with 13.6 per cent, and in September rose
to second place with 34.2 per cent. This result, though good, must have
disappointed them; they would have won the seat if the Labour vote had not
recovered between the two elections.

I doubt if the Hartlepool result will tell us much about the next general
election, except that half the UKIP vote exists only for European elections.

Incidentally, there was a small swing back from the UKIP to the Tories in
Hartlepool between June and September.

There are two bigger questions that I find puzzling. Why does a conservative
country remain so reluctant to vote Conservative? Why does anyone want to win
the next election, when the next Parliament is almost a predictable disaster?
The culture of the United Kingdom is very conservative. The young are, of
course, young, but in their twenties most of them acquire jobs, partners,
children, unaffordable houses, now known as "starter homes", mortgages and debt.

Human reality is often humdrum; too many of us are institutionalised by the
banks.

When their children grow up, and they have paid off their mortgages, they have a
little money until they retire. When they retire, they may do good works, play
golf and worry about their pensions.

This is far from a radical society. Sometimes radical events happen; divorces,
insolvencies and debts change people's expectations. But the life of society
continues; only a few people try to change the pattern. The Blairs themselves,
and it is part of their charm, belong to this conservative society. They are
wholly conservative, from Connaught Square, to their holidays, to the schools
they choose for their children. Yet this deeply conservative society at present
feels unsympathetic to the perfectly competent Conservative Opposition. The
Conservatives may be better off if they do not win the next election.

There is a new economic challenge in the world that is particularly difficult
for Britain and Europe. Pricing power has shifted from the Atlantic to the
Pacific; it now belongs to China. China can set the prices for manufacturers
below the level at which Europe, or Britain, can compete. European cars, for
instance, have many good qualities, but, like Fiat or Jaguar, they are surplus
to the world's requirements. China also sets prices for raw materials and oil.
If Chinese demand had not risen so fast in the past five years, oil would be $
20 a barrel, not $ 50.

This revolution in pricing power reflects the industrialisation of China,
drawing on the huge Chinese workforce. In the past 12 years 200 million people
from the west of China have moved to industrial areas within 100 miles of the
Pacific.

This transfer continues. They have acquired advanced technologies and high
skills.

It is the equivalent of adding another Germany, France and Britain to the
potential workforce of Europe, at less than 10 per cent of European labour
costs.

This is one of the largest human migrations in history. Britain has not begun to
adjust to its impact.

This has already turned the terms of trade against Europe; the process is global
and the rate is accelerating. In all probability it will destroy the ill
conceived euro before 2020, perhaps before 2010. In any case, Europe, like
Japan, has an ageing population that will progressively erode European
competitiveness. These economic problems the politicians, including Gordon
Brown, neither discuss nor seem to understand. A hurricane is coming; our
political leaders are ready to open their umbrellas.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              277 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

There's talk of war and a leadership battle. But this is UKIP, so it's the
Second World War. And speak up, please

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 22

LENGTH: 1017 words


THE seniority of the delegates at the UK Independence Party's annual conference
can be judged by the fact that their favourite theme is the war -against
Germany, not Iraq -and their most common heckle is "speak up!".

This means that the leadership of the gathering of the anti-European Union party
in Bristol faces different problems from Tony Blair in Brighton or Michael
Howard in Bournemouth.

When the UKIP's matinee idol, Robert Kilroy-Silk, said on Saturday that, if they
wanted to succeed, they had to be "ruthless" and make "unpopular decisions",
more than a thousand silver-haired delegates nodded but didn't quite seem to
hear. They were elated by the party's success in beating the Conservatives in
Hartlepool, and thrilled at seeing the former chat-show host in the flesh.

So, yesterday, Mr Kilroy-Silk had to say it again, spelling out his message on
BBC Television instead, as he had left the two-day party meeting after a few
hours, before its leader, Roger Knapman, had even begun his keynote address.

"I would like to be leader of UKIP," said Mr Kilroy-Silk, who joined the party
six weeks before the European elections in June, when he became an MEP. "I think
I could turn it into a very effective, electoral fighting force. I've been told
by every senior member of the party that they would like me to be leader," he
told the Breakfast With Frost programme.

"What everybody tells me they want is for the current leader to accept the
inevitable and to stand down," he said, giving warning that the party had a
"very short" timeframe to put him in power before the next general election.

Although Mr Knapman has stated publicly that he will not bow to Mr Kilroy Silk's
leadership campaign, Mr Kilroy-Silk said that Mr Knapman had reneged on a
private promise to hand him the leadership after the June elections.

Sound familiar? To UKIP connoisseurs, "Kilroy v Knapman" is the "Blair v Brown"
saga writ very small, but no less lacking in rancour.

Back in Bristol Mr Kilroy-Silk's comments that his leadership bid had the
support of every senior member of the UKIP were met with derison by most of its
11 MEPs.

Jeffrey Titford, former leader of the party and leader of the group in Brussels,
said: "It's a terrible thing, ego, isn't it? Why can't he understand that he has
to be invited to be leader?"

Mr Knapman denied making any kind of deal with Mr Kilroy-Silk, declaring himself
"surprised" by his comments and saying that he had no intention of standing down
before his tenure ended in two years' time.

Nigel Farage MEP went further, saying that a divisive leadership contest "would
set us back years", to the time when the UKIP was doomed by in-fighting.

Petrina Holdsworth, the chairwoman of a party that refers to her as "chairman",
said: "That's tough, if he wants to take over now."

Mr Kilroy-Silk is not completely isolated. It is believed that he has a
supporter in Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire business tycoon whose multimillion-pound
patronage of the party could pressure Mr Knapman into standing down. There is
also a UKIP meeting in March, when the party could back a vote of no-confidence
against Mr Knapman.

If Mr Kilroy-Silk had spent the day in the conference hall, he would have
noticed how different he was from his colleagues. Although his speech was full
of bombast, it contained no reference to the Second World War. a startling
omission by the UKIP standards, where the opposite wisdom of Fawlty Towers
prevails -do mention the war.

First, the party voted overwhelmingly to stand in every seat, dismissing a
previous idea that it would not contest seats where MPs, particularly
Conservatives, would sign a pledge to support withdrawal from the European
Union.

One of the most compelling arguments for this decision was that, "just like
Neville Chamberlain" before the war, they would not be able to trust the pieces
of paper on which MPs signed their pledge. Any MP signing it would be
"kamikaze".

Then Lindsay Jenkins, an anti-European Union writer, told the gathering that the
EU was "every bit as intent on destroying us as the axis powers in World War
Two".

When she mentioned Ken Livingstone, the Labour Mayor of London, the shout from
the back was "Gauleiter!" Mr Titford followed up with a plea for party
discipline (Mr Kilroy-Silk was outside doing television interviews at this
point), advising: "We have to watch what we say now, the walls have ears, as
they said in World War Two."

Mr Knapman then obliged with an extended metaphor about the UKIP's progress
being like that of the British against the Germans in the film Dambusters.

Finally Dick Morris, the former political adviser to Bill Clinton retained by
the UKIP at much expense, told them to avoid the two temptations as the general
election loomed, of becoming too fringe to matter, or too mainstream to seem
fresh. He then referred to his father's aid to the British in, yes, World War
Two: "I thank you for letting me re-trace my father's footsteps and fight
alongside the British for freedom."

The obsession was closely allied to the age range of the party's supporters,
said delegate, Doreen Shawyer, 82, from Salisbury, said. "The older people
fought in a war, we know what we're giving up," she said.

Her friend, Susan Shearn, 73, agreed: "We also know that we were lied to in the
1970s, when we first joined the EU."

It was hard to pick out more than a handful of delegates under the age of 40,
almost as few as black people, with the great majority aged over 60.

Emily Williams, a 25-year-old teacher from Devon, said that she had joined two
years ago because she did not trust the EU. "I'm now treasurer of two branches
and I'm the only one without white hair," Ms Williams said.

Her boyfriend, Alex Blatchford, also 25, said that the Conservatives had the
same difficulty appealing to the young, but were also more tired in spirit. "I
used to be a Conservative, and the look of the annual conference would be just
as old as this, but at UKIP it's different -there's more vibrancy, more life."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

Poll trouble for Tories as Blair bounces back

BYLINE: Peter Riddell and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 1026 words


MICHAEL HOWARD and the Conservatives start their conference today in a worse
position in the polls than a year ago, a month before Iain Duncan Smith was
forced out as leader.

A new Populus poll for The Times underlines how large a mountain the Tories
still have to climb to be credible challengers at the next election, even though
party activists will be told today that they are already set to win enough
target seats to deny Labour a majority.

The poll shows that more than two thirds of Tory supporters want the party to
shift in a more Eurosceptic direction.

Tony Blair and Labour have emerged stronger from a tumultuous week in politics.

The party held on in the Hartlepool by-election, in which the Tories came fourth
behind the UK Independence Party (UKIP), and Mr Blair suddenly announced that he
was having a heart operation. Mr Blair's personal rating is higher than at any
time since May last year.

A narrow majority of voters (51 to 42 per cent) say Mr Blair will not be a "lame
duck", despite his announcement that he wants to stay on as prime minister for a
full third term, but would not seek a fourth term.The Times reports today that
Mr Blair did not finally decide until July that he would not step down in the
autumn, and told Gordon Brown his decision at a dinner. Mr Brown and John
Prescott appealed yesterday for Labour unity amid signs of Downing Street
worries that Mr Blair's announcement had sparked claims that he had become a
lame-duck leader.

The poll finds that more than half the public thinks that Mr Blair should step
down either now or very soon (39 per cent) or shortly after the next election
(16 per cent). Fewer than two fifths (36 per cent) think he should step down at
the end of the next Parliament. However, more than three fifths of Labour voters
support Mr Blair's intention to stay on for a full third term.

Virtually all the interviews for the poll were undertaken after Mr Blair's
announcement and the result of the Hartlepool by-election.

Labour is now on 35 per cent, up three points on a month ago, while Mr Blair's
rating has risen to its highest level since May last year, after the end of
ground fighting in Iraq.

By contrast, the Tories have slipped two points to 28 per cent. This equals
their lowest rating under Mr Howard's leadership. In all published polls over
the six months, Tory support is fractionally lower than in the last six months
of Mr Duncan Smith's leadership. The Tories have lost support to the UKIP,
particularly among their bedrock vote of over-65s.

The Liberal Democrats have held on to most of their recent gains at 25 per cent
(minus one point over the month), while the UKIP has jumped three points to 5
per cent after its strong showing at Hartlepool.

Mr Howard's rating as a leader has dropped for the fourth month to by far the
lowest of his nearly year-long leadership, and fractionally lower than Mr Duncan
Smith's a year ago. On a ten-point scale, Mr Howard is now on 4.15 (down from
4.44 last month), compared with 5.31 for Mr Blair, and 4.98 for Charles Kennedy.

Mr Howard is doing badly among Tory voters, down from 6.68 to 6.03 over the past
month. This is less than either Mr Blair or Mr Kennedy among their party
supporters.

But the dismal message of the poll will be countered this morning by Lord
Saatchi, the Tory co-chairman, when he announces the results of the party's
private polling in the 130 Labour seats it needs to win to be on the way to
gaining office.

In a surprisingly upbeat analysis Lord Saatchi and Liam Fox, the other chairman,
will tell a private meeting of the National Convention that based on months of
research by the private pollsters, Opinion Research Business, the Tories are on
course to win 103 of those seats. The Conservatives must win 164 seats to win an
overall majority, 130 held by Labour. In those seats Labour scored 47 per cent
at the last election and the Tories 36 per cent. According to the polling,
Labour is on 35 per cent in those seats and the Tories on 39 per cent.

Mr Howard insisted that the Conservatives could still win the next election. In
an interview with the Breakfast with Frost programme on BBC One, he dismissed
suggestions that the best the party could hope for at was to finish second ahead
of the Liberal Democrats.

"Of course that is not true," he said. "The choice that people will have at the
next general election is between another Labour government, now thrown totally
into chaos as a consequence of Tony Blair's announcement, or a Conservative
government," he said. Mr Howard told Conservative agents last night that they
had "everything to play for."

He said: "The choice before the British people is a clear one. There is the
Labour way: more talk, more division, and a lame-duck prime minister. Or there
is the Conservative way: accountable government, policies to make Britain more
free and more secure, and strong leadership united behind a noble task. This
week we have an ambitious task. We are going to be the first political party
ever to make ourselves truly accountable to electors. By setting out a
'Timetable for Action' - with specific commitments for our first hour, day, week
and month in office we will be putting ourselves on the line in a way no
government ever has before."

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults by telephone between
September 30 and October 2.

* Labour now well in the lead on 35 per cent with Tony Blair's highest personal
rating since May 2003

* Half the public thinks he is not a lame-duck Prime Minister though fewer than
two-fifths say he should carry on for a full third term

* Tories, on 28 per cent, equal worst rating of Michael Howard's leadership

* Mr Howard's rating as leader down for fourth month running at lowest level of
his leadership and less than Iain Duncan Smith at the end

* Over two thirds of Tory voters want Mr Howard to be tougher in opposing an EU
constitution and to offer a referendum on EU membership.

Party conference, pages 6-8 Leading article, page 15 Tim Hames, page 16 Armando
Iannucci, page 16 William Rees-Mogg, page 17


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

Supporters say a tougher line on Europe will win more votes

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 681 words


Alliance with UKIP is favoured by a third of Tories.

THE Conservative leadership is urged by a big majority of its own supporters
this morning to take an even more sceptical approach towards Europe.

A Populus poll for The Times shows that nearly three quarters of Tory voters (71
per cent) think that the party would be more likely to increase its electoral
appeal by "being much tougher in opposing the EU constitution and offering a
referendum on whether Britain should remain in the EU". A mere 13 per cent
disagree. A smaller proportion of all voters (42 per cent) think a more
Eurosceptic line would benefit the party.

The poll, the final instalment of the conference series, also shows that a
sizeable minority of Conservative supporters (36 per cent) believe that the
party should form "an alliance at local level with the UK Independence Party in
order to avoid splitting the Eurosceptic vote". This was even before last week's
Hartlepool by-election, when the Tory candidate came fourth behind the UKIP.

Over the weekend Michael Howard sought to woo hardline sceptics and supporters
of the UKIP by promising that, if the Tories were to win an election next
spring, he would call a referendum in the autumn, urging a "no" vote as a basis
for negotiations on repatriating powers from Brussels.

The poll shows that, despite the unpopularity of Tony Blair and the Government,
the Tories still have a long way to go to win back the confidence of voters.
More than two thirds (70 per cent) believe that "the Conservatives just attack
the Government over whatever happens to be in the news, but never say anything
positive". Nearly two fifths of Tory voters agree, as do three quarters of swing
or floating voters, who may change their party preferences before the next
general election.

A separate Populus poll, largely taken between Friday morning and Saturday
night, shows that by a two-to-one margin, voters do not believe that the return
of John Redwood to the Tory Shadow Cabinet will help the party. Just 24 per cent
think that Mr Redwood's "combative style of politics will help to win new
supporters for the Conservatives", with 52 per cent disagreeing. Tory voters
agree, albeit by a small margin (42 to 37 per cent). Similarly, 57 per cent
think that his return is "a sign that the Conservatives lack fresh ideas and are
stuck in the past". 26 per cent disagree.

According to the main conference poll, a majority of voters (51 per cent)
believe that the Tories have not changed for the better since they were "kicked
out in 1997", while 38 per cent say they that have changed for the better. More
than half (53 per cent) say that the party does not seem to stand for anything.
Just two fifths (38 per cent) say that the Tories would do a good job of running
the country, a drop of 4 points on last year.

Two fifths of all voters, and three in ten Tories, say that British politics
would be better off if the present Conservative Party were to be replaced by a
new right-of-centre party.

Since Mr Howard became leader, however, the Tories have improved their image in
some ways. Nearly a third of voters (32 per cent, up 10 points in a year) now
believe that the party has a good team of leaders, while 41 per cent (up 9
points) think the party is competent and capable.

The party's strongest card remains crime. Nearly two thirds (64 per cent) think
that the Tories would deal effectively with crime and antisocial behaviour.

Moreover, 41 per cent of all voters, and 72 per cent of Tory supporters, think
that promising to expand the police force and build more prisons would make
people more likely to vote for the party.

A lower-tax economy, as proposed Lord Saatchi and Liam Fox, the party's joint
chairmen in their interview with The Times on Saturday, also has strong
electoral appeal. Some 43 per cent of all voters, and 71 per cent of Tories, say
that putting forward a clear promise to cut taxes would make people more likely
to vote Tory.

Populus interviewed 1,009 adults aged over 18 between September 3 and 5.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

Eurosceptic old efforts to rescue guard wants more forceful powers from Brussels

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 594 words


Grass roots plead for stronger opposition.

TORY Eurosceptics urged Michael Howard yesterday to develop a more robust case
for taking powers back to Britain from Brussels in the face of mounting pressure
from grassroots members.

Conservative MPs admitted that they faced demands from longstanding party
members to go further than offering to take back control of farm subsidies,
fisheries and overseas aid from Brussels, to see off the UK Independence Party.

Angela Browning, Tory MP for Tiverton and Honiton, called on Mr Howard to spell
out this week how repatriating these powers would change Britain's relationship
with the European Union.

"It is one thing saying we are opposed to it. We have to say what we would do in
practice," Mrs Browning told The Times. Her experience as Agriculture Minister
suggested that it would take at least three years to repatriate farming policy,
she said.

"We have to have a cordial but totally new relationship with the EU. If we go to
repatriate these other policies, where do we stand? If they take us to the
European Court and say we are in breach of treaty agreements for repatriation,
would we want to say, 'We don't recognise your court?' I think we would have to
say that. That would completely change the relationship that we have with the
European Union," she said Sir John Butterfill, another senior backbencher and a
former chairman of the Conservative Group for Europe, called the repatriation of
these policies only "a start", although he emphasised that he was happy with Mr
Howard's current position.

Sir John said: "Quite clearly, many of our supporters are worried about Europe.

They are worried about the constitution, they don't like it, they don't want it.

Indeed, many of them would go a lot further and say that there is quite a lot of
the existing arrangements that need repatriating."

But Stephen Dorrell, vice-chairman of the centre- grouping Mainstream, said that
Mr Howard had been talking to his core supporters and should turn his attention
to floating voters.

"Michael Howard has said that he would hold a referendum on the constitution.
That is fine. But I don't think that is going to win us votes unless we start
talking about the things people raise on the doorstep," Mr Dorrell said. "I
believe that Michael understands that. In recent weeks we have been talking more
to our own supporters. I don't have a problem with that.

"But in addition to that, not instead of, I would like to see a recognition that
we should be talking to the five million people whose votes we need to build a
majority. And all the evidence is that they are much more interested in health,
education, crime and transport and the domestic agenda than they are in Europe."

Robert Key. Tory MP for Salisbury, said: "Of course we need to encourage UKIP
supporters to stay with us and John Redwood is saying the right things. We all
have to recognise, including existing Tory voters, that we have to attract
people who are not as Eurosceptic as the people who have been loyal for 20, 30,
40 years.

It would be in my view a mistake to concentrate on the old core vote."

Liam Fox. the Conservative co-chairman, is expected to use his opening
conference speech today to dismiss claims of a "lurch to the right" on policy,
although he will ridicule those who claim that Tony Blair is a Conservative.
Asked about the UKIP threat yesterday, Mr Fox said: "The only vote Tony Blair is
afraid of is a Conservative vote. Any other vote is a vote to help him to stay
in office."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                October 3, 2004

WELCOME TO UK POLITICS, JAPANESE STYLE

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1655 words


Tony bLAIR has become the first British prime minister to stand for re-election
on a promise to resign, an unprecedented decision to hand the nation five years'
notice which has transformed the political landscape. His Chancellor, Gordon
Brown, who learnt of the news last Thursday as he arrived for the International
Montary Fund (IMF) summit in Washington, faces a choice: stay incarcerated in
the Treasury until 2009; or a start a putsch. Those who know the depth of the
Chancellor's ambition don't doubt which path he will take. Even amongst Mr
Blair's allies, the only question is when and how the Chancellor will make his
move.

Mr Blair, who is recovering this weekend from a medical procedure on his heart,
has his eye is on the history books. His seven years in office have so far left
only two signature actions: the Iraq war and unfinished public sector reform -
the so-called "choice agenda" involving the introduction of market mechanisms
into state-provided health and education. The prospects for a peaceful and
democratic Iraq are bleak, as our front page illustrates today; so Mr Blair's
hopes for legacy now rest on making his domestic reforms irreversible; that
requires keeping Mr Brown out of power.

Whatever else they may agree on, the divide between the two over public services
is fundamental. Mr Blair believes that competition and consumer choice drive
quality; he wants to replace state monopolies with plurality of providers, where
possible. His idea is laudable: introduce a transparent pricing system to the
National Health Service (NHS) so private clinics can compete on a level playing
field and the patient can decide which service they would prefer, all within a
system which would remain free at the point of use. But the prime minister has
been foiled, wherever possible, by Mr Brown, who considers such competition
deleterious to the "public sector ethic", which he praised at the Labour
conference in Brighton last week and which is at the centre of his romantic, if
outdated, ideas for Britain's future.

Make the economy grow, argues Mr Brown, then collect enough tax to shower cash
on public services and make them so good that "choice" won't be needed. He sees
an army of "public servants" as the foot soldiers of his Old Labour dream. Mr
Blair wishes to end this sectarian attitude, saying neither he nor the average
patient cares if treatment comes from private or public clinics, as long as it's
quick, efficient and provides value to the taxpayer. Mr Brown's mission, as he
said in his speech to the Labour conference last week, is for an "ethic of
public service so strong that public services can provide efficiently for all
without having to privatise." He would keep the two worlds separate.

Mr Brown believes in efficient state provision by enlightened politicians and
bureaucrats; Mr Blair believes in the market allocating state resources through
empowering patients and parents. Britain is now at a crossroads: depending on
who leads Labour, it could go either way because Mr Blair's reforms have not yet
taken root. Last April, for example, the NHS signed a deal with Nuffield
Hospitals and Capio Healthcare UK to provide 25,000 hip and knee operations at
NHS prices. A tiny number of procedures but a landmark deal. Last June, the NHS
set a new target: by 2008, some 15% of NHS operations will be carried out by the
private sector. Similarly, in education, Mr Blair proposes 200 inner-city
academies, state schools run by the private sector. So even by Mr Blair's mooted
departure date - Christmas 2008 - he will have liberalised only a sixth of
England's £94bn health budget and a twentieth of its £34bn education budget. The
progress is agonisingly slow.

Hence Mr Blair's frustration with his own programme. Having grasped the solution
- the introduction of choice into the public sector - the prime minister is
tinkering around the edges when root-and-branch reform is required. This makes
his reforms vulnerable. At the moment, there are only a dozen foundation
hospitals and fewer than 20 city academies, a tiny apparatus easily abolished by
a prime minister with a more collectivist agenda, like Mr Brown. So Mr Blair is
playing for the time he needs - and doing so with a ruthlessness which Mr Brown,
for all his ambition, has so far failed to match.

The anonymous Brownites camped in Washington with their man this weekend
complained he had fallen victim to "an African coup" ("they waited until he was
out of the country"). Mr Blair waited until the Labour Party conference was over
and his chancellor was abroad to announce he wanted to serve a full third term.
Labour plotters know it would be folly to mount a leadership challenge before
the next general election, probably in eight months time. Even after that, it
would be folly to act before the referendum on the doomed the European Union
(EU) constitution. When Mr Blair loses that vote (as he surely will) that will
be the ideal time for Mr Brown to strike, parading his limited credentials as a
Eurosceptic. But this means his earliest time for take-off is the summer of
2006.

With every passing month, the risks for Mr Brown's ambitions grow. The housing
bubble may collapse, consumer confidence may implode, the economy may start to
slide, his budget may start to unravel - shattering his halo in the process. By
2009, the Chancellor will be 58, which means age is not a problem - but
familiarity is: Mr Brown will, by then, have spent 11 years boring Britain with
his budget cliches. The prospect of a further five years of Brownisms does not
excite.

By 2009 Labour could easily skip a generation, perhaps past even 46-year-old
Alan Milburn, and on to the likes of David Miliband, 39, the schools minister
and former 10 Downing Street policy chief. Mr Milburn, the architect of NHS
reform and arch enemy of Mr Brown, is now back in the cabinet as election
supremo - a post the Chancellor once enjoyed and which Mr Milburn will use to
write a Blairite manifesto for Labour's third term. But is he a rival leader to
Mr Brown? Mr Milburn's problem is the Labour Party, which listened in ominous
silence to his speeches at Brighton fringe meetings last week. That said, it is
striking how many younger Labour members see the future in Blairism.

"It won't be long until the penny drops with the trade unions, which see railway
workers earning three times as much after privatisation," said John Hutton,
health minister, at a breakfast fringe last week. In fact, it's hard to find
many thoughtful, on-the-way-up MPs who share Mr Brown's anachronistic notions of
state control. His main supporters are embittered former ministers like Frank
Dobson, Nick Brown, Robin Cook and Clare Short - all fast becoming yesterday's
generation. This division - Blair: the future, Brown: the past - will become
more acute as time goes on. The longer Mr Blair stays in office, the more the
fruit of reform will prove itself; and the more old-fashioned Mr Brown's rebel
army will start to look. Ditto Britain's Tories. With so much action and
ideological battle inside the Labour Party, the Tories are looking increasingly
irrelevant as they gather in Bournemouth for their annual conference this week.
The party has almost no point of differentiation with Mr Blair, other than
Europe. To a greater or lesser extent, the Tories agree with Mr Blair on
education policy, health policy and (due to the pusillanimity of shadow
chancellor Oliver Letwin) they effectively agree on tax. The Tory pensions
policy is, if anything, to the left of Labour. The party is lukewarm on
education vouchers, considering even socialist Sweden's system too right-wing
for its liking. Its plans for health reform are an echo of Labour's.

So why vote Tory? Why indeed, asked the voters of Hartlepool as they consigned
Her Majesty's Official Opposition to fourth place in a by-election last
Thursday. It was a humiliating and instructive defeat. It's not that Michael
Howard's party is hated; it is much worse than that. Nowadays, voters are
indifferent and the Tories ignored: voters can't work out what it is the Tories
are supposed to stand for and don't much care. That certainly cannot be said for
the UK Independence Party (UKIP), which beat the Conservatives in Hartlepool
with their clear agenda: withdraw from the European Union and enter a free-trade
agreement instead.

Its message is robust, and popular. It is also speaking voters' language on
immigration concerns, drawing a distinction between this and racism - waters
where the petrified Tories dare not delve. The Conservatives have spent so long
trying to chase the political centre (coaxed into a trap set by Mr Blair) they
have lost touch with their base. Caught in a pincer movement by New Labour, the
Liberal Democrats and UKIP, they are fast losing their raison d'etre.

British politics are now Japanese: the main political divide runs between
factions of the ruling party, divisions which are more important than what
divides the ruling party from other parties. The seminal divide in British
politics is between Mr Blair and Mr Brown, making opposition parties in general
and the Tories in particular a quaint irrelevance. So anyone interested in the
future of British politics should closely follow Mr Brown's return from America
next week, not the musings of the Tory debating society gathering in Bournemouth
to discuss an election campaign already doomed to failure.

But Mr Blair is kryptonite to the Tories. If his health was to take a swing for
the worse and Mr Brown was in 10 Downing Street, then the Tories would at least
have a ready-made project: to finish what the prime minister started. But the
prime minister's heart problems are minor and his resilience legendary. To prove
it, he tours Africa next week - safe in the knowledge that Mr Brown is in no
position to have a counter-coup ready for his return.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                              282 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 3, 2004

OP, UP. . . AND AWAY FOR TONY

BYLINE: by REBECCA VARLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words


TONY Blair is relaxing at his official country residence today following
Friday's surprise heart operation.

The Prime Minister grinned broadly and said he was feeling "excellent" when he
left Downing Street for the mini-break at Chequers yesterday.

Dressed casually in jeans, a blue opennecked shirt and blazer, Mr Blair was
accompanied by his wife Cherie.

He is expected back at his desk tomorrow before a visit to Africa on Tuesday.

The PM had a two-and-a-half hour operation at London's Hammersmith Hospital on
Friday to correct an irregular heartbeat.

Medics said chances of the problem occurring again were "very low".

Before being admitted, Mr Blair tried to head off questions over his future by
insisting he will, if elected, serve a full third term and then stand down.

And supporters of Chancellor Gordon Brown were yesterday warned not to
destabilise the Labour Party with leadership speculation.

Mr Blair's announcement triggered a fresh wave of reports that he had reneged on
a deal to quit in favour of Mr Brown.

But former Cabinet minister Jack Cunningham, a Blair loyalist, dismissed the
rumours.

"Frankly, it would help if others who have an idea about their own interests in
the succession would just shut up and help him to get on with governing the
country, " Dr Cunningham told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "It is in Gordon's
interests for the party to be united, to be successful at the next general
election and to go into a third term with a bold programme of new ideas and
policies for the country.

"So to that extent, some of his friends aren't doing him any favours."

Meanwhile, Tory leader Michael Howard insisted that his party would hold an
early referendum on Europe if they came to power.

He said that was vital to win back Conservative voters who had defected to the
UK Independence Party.

On the eve of the Tory conference in Bournemouth, Mr Howard said his party would
fight to reject the proposed European Constitution.

His vow came after the Tories suffered humiliation at the Hartlepool byelection
on Thursday, coming fourth behind Labour, the Lib Dems and UKIP.

But he claimed Conservatives were on course to win at the national polls.

"I am absolutely convinced that we can win the election. I think the country
wants to change course.

"I think it wants a Government that tells the truth, that believes in action and
not words."

Promising a "timetable of action", he added: "There will be no hiding place for
us. We won't be able to escape, we won't be able to weasel out."

Meanwhile, the UKIP's Robert KilroySilk told his annual conference at Bristol
that the Tories were "dying".

He said his party should act now to "kill" it off completely.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              283 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

MEDIA: WHAT USE ARE THE BIG BEASTS OF THE TORY PRESS IN THE PARTY'S HOUR OF
NEED?;
 IT'S CRUNCH TIME FOR THE CONSERVATIVES - AND FOR THE PAPERS THAT

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1451 words


It has been a wobbly old year in the relationship between the Conservative Party
and its two great pillars of support in the fourth estate, the Daily Mail and
The Daily Telegraph.

By a coincidence which he describes as "nightmarish", Martin Newland moved into
the editor's chair at The Daily Telegraph barely a month before the opening of
the boardroom scandal which brought down the proprietor, Conrad Black.

Both the ex-editor, Charles Moore, and the soon to be ex-owner, were public
figures with pronounced right-wing opinions. Newland is a working hack made
good, with no known party affiliations. In the uncertainty before the Barclay
brothers gained control, there was even an unfounded rumour that the newspaper
might cut its links with the Tories altogether.

Then, as if Michael Howard had not been put through enough anxiety, last week
The Independent secured the first interview with the Daily Mail's young
proprietor, Viscount Rothermere. He made the ominous-sounding observation: "The
Conservatives do not have a God-given right to expect the loyalty of the Daily
Mail."

The point was rammed home by the headline on page 2 of Friday's Mail, which
announced the result of the Hartlepool by-election (the front having been given
over to Tony Blair's heart operation). It read "Humiliation for Howard as UKIP
beat Tories". The Telegraph treated the news with a gentler headline, much
further back in the paper.

Actually, neither of these two stalwarts is about to abandon the party, and as
the Tories gather for their conference, Michael Howard can count on both to be
his cheerleaders. The most recent proof was when Howard announced a proposed tax
reform, during the Lib Dem con- ference. While no other newspaper put the story
on its front page, and some did not bother reporting it at all, for the Mail and
the Telegraph it was the news of the day. A huge headline - "Tories: Inherit up
to a million tax free" - filled the front of the Mail.

But another question asked about these two titles is not whether they have
backed the Tories, but have they done it well? In the darkest days of the Labour
Party 20 years ago, before the launch of The Independent, Neil Kinnock had only
two friends among the national dailies - The Guardian and the Daily Mirror -
both of which constantly prodded and poked his party back to the political
centre.

A complaint heard from Tories - and echoed to some extent even by the
Telegraph's new editor - is that the Tory titles have consistently done the
opposite. This is also said of their new friend, the Express, whose owner,
Richard Desmond, switched horses earlier this year.

Andrew Cooper, a former Conservative Central Office strategist who now works for
the polling organisation Populus, says: "The Mail and the Telegraph, as the
voice of the core of the party, have been one of the biggest problems in trying
to get the Conservative Party to face the need for change." He adds: "Where
leaders like William Hague - and Michael Howard, to a certain extent - have
tried to modernise, they were quite quickly pushed back on a line of
retrenchment because otherwise the Mail and the Telegraph just fell on them.
Hague, in particular, fell back on the traditional right-wing agenda of Europe
and immigration because he wasn't strong enough to survive against the
opposition of these two newspapers. The Daily Express does not have the same
impact on thinking at Central Office," he added.

Cooper might be expected to say that. He is an old ally of Michael Portillo, who
tried in vain to bring a more modern face to right-wing politics. What is less
predictable is Newland's reaction that such criticism is "to a certain extent
right".

While insisting that he has "the greatest respect" for his predecessor, that
does not run to defending the way Moore and the Telegraph promoted the
candidature of Iain Duncan Smith in the 2001 Tory leadership election.

"IDS, for all his obvious merits, was not a leader who was going to take the
party back towards electability," Newland says. "But we had backed his candidacy
because we were so horrified by the prospect of a Europhile taking over.
Frankly, probably, that was a mistake."

The Telegraph aims to be less "ideological" and more focused on "consumer"
quest- ions, such as rising taxes, he said. "We try to decouple ourselves from
the Tory story," Newland says. "You can reflect the story rather than be part of
it. My vision is entirely divorced from political in the partisan sense.

"Our readers aspire to one thing: to provide for themselves and their families
with as little interference as possible. We look at the political parties to see
if that is what they offer. Any one that does we will be nice to, and anybody
else we will be horrible to. At present, the Tories have the better record.

"Though Europe is important, everyone got overexcited and shrill about it, as is
the case with Iraq. If the Tories manage to keep Europe out of the frame during
the next election, and concentrate on questions like how much is going in to the
taxman and what's coming out, that would be a good thing."

Boris Johnson is interviewed on page 9 of the Sunday Review

Max Hastings

Outlets: Mail', Guardian', Sunday Telegraph'

Role: Former Telegraph' and Standard' Editor, he is one of the right's most
effective attack dogs, the more potent for having once backed Blair.

In his own words: On Blair: "The maestro of saccharine sincerity has been
corrupted by office as absolutely as any Roman emperor. Greed for ... power has
eaten into his soul."

BBR: 3

Boris Johnson

Outlets: The Spectator', The Daily Telegraph' Role: Cripes! Tory MP with a sense
of humour! Court jester who has emerged as the party's conscience over Iraq.

In his own words: "I was sitting in the Commons tea room, munching a mournful
rock cake and studying the accounts of the US bombing of Fallujah... I found
myself cast into a terrible gloom."

BBR: 2

Peter Oborne

Outlets: The Spectator', Standard'

Role: Story-getter who seems to smell trouble first.

In his own words: "When Blair is long gone ... the abiding image of his years in
power will be the invasion of the House of Commons. This is the reality of
Blair's Britain ... and the gulf he has created between the government and the
people."

BBR: 4

Simon Heffer

Outlet: Daily Mail'

Role: Trenchant fogey whom no Tory leader would want to cross. Interprets the
Tory runes for Paul Dacre.

In his own words: "The voters know there is a lot wrong with this country:
failing services, rampant crime, illegal immigration and excessive taxation.
What they need is a party that recognises their concerns."

BBR: 5

Paul Dacre

Outlet: Daily Mail'

Role: All-powerful Editor since 1992, he courted New Labour but has since
returned the paper to its Tory roots.

In his own words: "The dismal message from Brighton is that chameleon Blair sees
nothing wrong with his past performance and offers nothing but more of the same
... isn't the record wearing thin?" (Leader, 29 Sept)

Big Beast Rating (out of 5): 5

Michael Gove

Outlet: The Times'

Role: Brainbox standing as Tory for Surrey Heath.

In his own words: "Any successful British prime minister will have to display
tenacity in the face of terror and step up the pace of public sector reform.
There are several politicians who may be equal to that challenge. But the only
one in the Labour Party is Tony Blair."

BBR: 4

Peter Hitchens

Outlet: The Mail on Sunday"

Role: The prophet of a "forgotten England" of rage-filled suburbia.

In his own words: "I have no sympathy for Anthony Blair over the kidnapping of
Ken Bigley. If Mr Blair cannot sleep this weekend it is because he does not
deserve to. He is a coward and a liar and he is suffering the consequences of
his behaviour."

BBR: 3

Matthew d'Ancona

Outlet: Sunday Telegraph'

Role: Market-maker of the Tory party but drawn to Blair.

In his own words: "The orange overalls of Ken Bigley, his pitiful televised plea
and ... the hostage crisis in Iraq will cast a bleak shadow over Labour ... The
war and the resentments it has sown will curl through the conference ... and the
fringe meetings like the smell of cordite."

BBR: 4

Michael Portillo

Outlet: The Sunday Times'

Role: One-time Tory leadership contender now sniping from the sidelines.

In his own words: "The only one of the three main party leaders who ... has not
been hobnobbing with anybody controversial this August is Charles Kennedy.
Perhaps, like me, he worries about what his mother would think. It's not a bad
test to apply."

BBR: 2

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              284 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

MEANWHILE, KILROY-SILK RALLIES THE UKIP CRANKS AND GADFLIES'

BYLINE: SHAUN CONNOLLY IN BRISTOL Robert Kilroy-Silk speaks on the opening day
of the UK Independence Party conference in Bristol yesterday BARRY BATCHELOR/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk glided on to the stage of the UKIP conference, his nuclear
tan drowning out the gaudy purple and yellow backdrop.

"I've been dying to meet you lot," he beamed. "I never knew what a load of
gadflies, cranks and extremists would look like. You look normal to me." A
statement so profoundly wrong that it made you question what sort of people RKS
had been hanging out with since being dumped by the BBC.

But at least he brought some much-needed panache to a spectacle where the most
over-used word was "Shh!" as the aged audience strained to hear their prejudices
stroked.

UKIP's leader, Nigel Farage MEP, quashed any suggestion his party's gathering
lacked style, saying: "We don't have Bono but we do have Rusty Lee." They also
have Jonathan Aitken, a potential candidate spotted among the crowds, and Piers
Merchant, their chief executive.

Pressed about the white, middle-class and elderly image of his band of
Euro-loathers, Mr Farage replied: "Oh no, I wouldn't say we were too male,"
presumably conceding the other points.

Indeed the Tory conference this week will look like a teen disco at the United
Nations in comparison. But who needs style when you have silk - Robert
Kilroy-Silk that is.

Backstage, party worker Aurelie Laloux was singing "La Mer" in her native French
tongue and then singing the praises of the seemingly self-tanning man.

"When my friends in Paris heard what he was saying about Europe they turned
white," she trilled before returning to her song.

No doubt that would be a familiar feeling to anyone who caught his morning talk
show before it was axed. The silken one may have burned brightest, but he was
outdone for radicalism by ex-Police Federation chairman Alan Eastwood. He
proposed the wonderfully novel idea of bringing back hanging and legalising
drugs. But he warned the delegates: "Legalisation does not mean that we will all
have to take drugs."

Judging by the wild eyes and foot-stomping of many of those listening, his plea
for restraint may well have come too late. Outside the main hall, party members
pored over books with titles such as The Last Days of Britain, The Rise of
Fascist Europe and Our Immigration Crisis Exposed - a theme benignly looked down
upon by pictures of previous headliners at Bristol's Colston Hall such as Jimi
Hendrix and the Clash.

One woman did have a complaint about RKS, whispering: "He didn't say anything
about the Germans, you know, what they are up to?"

Not that it seemed to bother the rest of the delegates - they had been touched
by Silk.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              285 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

THE TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: REDWOOD CALLS FOR DRASTIC TAX CUTS FOR BRITAIN'S TOP
EARNERS;
 THE TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH: RIGHTWINGER'S SWEEPING PROPOSALS ARE IN

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLTICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words


John Redwood, the latest recruit to Michael Howard's inner circle, has called
for drastic tax cuts far beyond those proposed in official party policy,
including halving marginal income tax for most of those who now pay the top
rate.

In a new book, published this week to coincide with the Tory party conference,
Mr Redwood urged: "The Government should aim to have in place, by the end of the
first Parliament, a standard 20 per cent rate on most earned income and all
company income; no capital gains tax on gains of over two years; no stamp duties
on tradable securities; no stamp duties above 2 per cent on anything; and no
fixed duties on vehicle ownership. This would make the United Kingdom far and
away the most attractive location throughout Europe for business and enterprise
activity; and would reinforce the success of other economic policies."

His sweeping proposals are in stark contrast to the caution urged by the
Conservative leader, who is anxious not to appear to be making unbelievable
promises that an incoming Tory government would not be able to keep.

Interviewed in yesterday's Daily Telegraph, Mr Howard said that his first aim
was to avert the tax rises that he believes a third-term Labour government would
impose.

He added: "Nobody's talking about spending cuts, but we are talking about the
pace at which spending will increase. Now, you say we haven't promised to cut
income tax. That's true. And the reason why is that if I made that promise
today, I couldn't be sure I could keep it."

Mr Redwood, who is now the party's spokesman for deregulation, in charge of
cutting red tape, pointed out yesterday that when he wrote the book, Singing the
Blues, he was entitled to express his own opinions, as a backbench MP. "But now
I'm a loyal frontbencher," he added

This will be seized by Labour as evidence that a Tory government would threaten
public services through tax cutting. Paul Boateng, Chief Secretary to the
Treasury, claimed yesterday: "The only guarantee you will get from the
Conservatives is big cuts for the police, hospitals, transport and schools."

It comes at a time when Mr Howard will be under pressure from anxious Tory
activists to move further to the right, to ward off the threat from the UK
Independence Party, which kept up its attack yesterday after its candidate in
last week's Hartlepool by-election had beaten the Tories into a humiliating
fourth place.

Delegates at UKIP's annual meeting in Bristol yesterday voted to stand
candidates in seats across Britain at the next election, rejecting a move that
they should concentrate only on seats where the sitting MP is pro- European.

While UKIP is unlikely to capture many Commons seats, its intervention could put
severe pressure on Tory MPs such as Michael Howard himself and the Shadow
Chancellor, Oliver Letwin, who have small majorities over the Liberal Democrats.

Mr Howard wants the dominant theme of the Tory conference, which starts
tomorrow, to be that a Conservative government would mean "less talk - more
action".

As Tory representatives arrive in Bournemouth for the conference, they will be
handed a written statement from Mr Howard about his planned "Timetable for
Action".

During the week, frontbenchers will be required to make specific declarations
about what they would do in their first month in office, if the Conservatives
were returned to power. The promises will be collated and published as a
blueprint for the government's first 30 days.

Media, Business, page 16

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              286 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

UKIP IS NOT THE HALF OF IT, MICHAEL

BYLINE: NICK WOOD

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 680 words


Michael Howard and his lieutenants have been in denial about UKIP since June
when the anti-Brussels party took 16 per cent of the vote in the European
elections and beat the Liberal Democrats into fourth place. After the
predictable humiliation of the Hartlepool by-election, it is now Howard's party
that finds itself in fourth place, with UKIP taking over 10 per cent of the
vote.

But as the Conservative leader wraps his head in a wet towel this weekend and
ponders the future, no one should get the UKIP threat out of proportion. UKIP
will not win a single seat in the general election, but in the process, by
depriving the Tories of a slice of badly needed votes, it could prop up Labour
in the marginal seats that will decide the result. The challenge for Howard is
simple. How does he squeeze the UKIP vote down to something like the 1.5 per
cent they polled in 2001? Flannelling on about a "live and let live" Europe is
unlikely to do the trick.

Nor should the Tories fret too much about the Liberal Democrats. They are making
headway against Labour - not the Tories - and doing so by attacking Tony Blair
from the left, mainly on the back of anti-war sentiment. But of Labour's 35 most
marginal seats, only six have the Liberal Democrats in second place, so the
scope for big Liberal gains is limited unless the Iraq adventure becomes totally
discredited.

Howard's problem is that the strategy he will unveil in Bournemouth limits his
scope for mounting a sustained assault on UKIP. He intends to ditch his quest
for the "vision thing" for a far more down-to-earth depiction of what Britain
can expect under a Conservative government. So no more soaring rhetoric - no
more shining cities on hills, no more Great Societies and no more rabid
Brussels-bashing.

For Howard, it is an abrupt change of direction. Only a few months ago he was
following the conventional path of seeking to paint a rosy Tory future in big,
bold,

brush-strokes. But now, forget the big picture:

it is the fine print that counts. The working slogan for the week is "Action not
words". Shadow ministers have been told to ensure that every speech contains a
clear timetable for action for an incoming administration, as with yesterday's
promise of a referendum on Europe by October next year.

Why the change of tack? The impetus has come from the opinion polls and the
Conservatives' focus groups. It is a commonplace to observe that there has been
a collapse of trust in Tony Blair. Less well appreciated is the fact that the
Conservatives have been dragged down with him. A YouGov poll last month asked
people if the Labour government had been honest and trustworthy. Blair's score
was minus 43 per cent; but Howard's was scarcely any better at minus 35 per
cent. The public is more appalled by Blair's lack of honesty than it is by any
of his policy blunders.

Like some ghastly mystery disease, the trust-eating virus first infected the PM
but rapidly spread to all parts of the body politic. That may be bad for Labour,
but is even worse for the Conservatives. An opposition can make headway only if
the public is prepared to listen. If people believe that all politicians are
liars, then it is a safe bet that the result of the next election will be much
like the last.

It is this public cynicism that Howard is trying to address in Bournemouth. Wild
promises are out; concrete statements about what an incoming Tory government
will do, and when, are in. But the Hartlepool debacle will only reinforce doubts
about the wisdom of this approach. The Tory conference expects its leaders to
provide some rhetorical fireworks.

In a few months from now, in all probability, the party faithful will have to
fight a general election. Can this sober approach, which might have been
modelled on the Ronseal ad - "it does exactly what it says on the tin" - catch
the imagination of the party and the media, reaching a public grown tired of
politicians bearing gifts?

Nick Wood is a former media director for the Conservative Party

Business, Media, pages 16-17

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              287 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

LEADING ARTICLE: WHERE ARE THE TORIES NOE THE COUNTRY NEEDS THEM

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 596 words


For all the speculation about whether Tony Blair's heart is still in it, for all
the questions about when the removal van is booked to arrive, for all the
puzzlement over his stamping a "best before" date on his forehead, for all the
wondering about the rumbling volcano that is Gordon Brown, the greatest mystery
of politics today is this: what on earth has happened to the Conservative Party?

After a brief upward blip when Michael Howard replaced the hapless Iain Duncan
Smith 11 months ago, the party has returned to "flatlining" in the opinion polls
at little over 30 per cent. Hartlepool was never going to be favourable ground
for the party on which to fight a by-election. But then nor was Leicester South,
or Birmingham Hodge Hill or Brent East. Each one a Labour seat, each one a
Liberal Democrat challenge: two wins, two near-misses, Tories nowhere.

It is tempting to celebrate the near-death experience of a party that seriously
adopted a policy towards asylum-seekers of sending them to an island "far, far
away". So let us celebrate. But then let us mourn the hollowness of our
democracy that has resulted from the Tories' failure to break out of their
declining electoral base.

Let us regret the fact that it was Tim Yeo, recently demoted by Mr Howard,
rather than Mr Howard himself, who observed yesterday: "We will only win if we
focus on the centre ground." And let us bemoan the sclerotic nature of the
British electoral system, denying fair representation to the Liberal Democrats,
the party that has offered a spirited and principled opposition to Mr Blair's
excesses.

This is not simply a matter of Iraq, the four letters that the catheter would
have found engraved on the Prime Minister's right atrium. Although it must be
said that Mr Howard's contortions on that issue have done little to enhance his
credibility. Intellectually, it is perfectly possible both to have supported the
invasion and to believe that Mr Blair lied to the nation. Politically, however,
it is a waste of time. As much a waste as speculating where Mr Blair would be
now if Kenneth Clarke had been Tory leader and opposed the Iraq venture.

Regardless of the strength of The Independent on Sunday's opposition to Mr
Blair's Iraq policy, we recognise that the choice at a general election is an
aggregate of judgements across the board.

That is the real failure of the modern Conservative Party. It has failed to
oppose the nanny statism of New Labour with the kind of verve that would appeal
to younger, forward-looking voters. It has been unable to shake off the grip of
the authoritarian tendency that gloried in Margaret Thatcher's own kind of nanny
state.

That failure has cost British democracy dear. We face the prospect of a
six-month phoney election campaign in which the result is taken for granted, but
in which positive enthusiasm for the Government is almost entirely lacking. It
is a laboratory test for low-turnout, low-engagement politics. No wonder the
Prime Minister's advisers are worried. Some of them are even privately willing
the Conservatives to pull themselves together this week.

We urge them to do so too, but it must be on the right terms. It should hardly
need saying that the worst response to being beaten by the UK Independence Party
in Hartlepool would be to move further to the right. William Hague tried that.
UKIP voters have nowhere else to go, and many of them might vote Tory if the
party had the smell of success about it. But to do that, Mr Howard must move to
the liberal centre of British politics.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              288 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

AGENDA: THIS WEEK'S BIG ISSUES 03.10.04 - 09.10.04

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 845 words


TORY PARTY CONFERENCE OPENS

WITH AN ELECTION LOOMING, HOWARD HAS A MOUNTAIN TO CLIMB AFTER THE DRUBBING AT
HARTLEPOOL

What's the story?

The Conservative annual conference opens tomorrow in Bournemouth. The first big
speech will be from the chairman, Liam Fox, on what a Conservative government
would do. Then the Shadow Chancellor, Oliver Letwin, will talk on "setting the
economy free". Michael Howard will speak on Tuesday, and make the closing
address on Thursday. Each shadow minister will be expected to say what they
would do in the first month of a Tory government - promises that will be
published as Howard's "timetable for action".

What are they saying?

Howard will tell the conference: "Less talk, more action - that's what the next
Conservative government will provide." Fox (right) admitted that the Hartlepool
result was "disappointing" but claimed it would not be replicated in a general
election. His fellow shadow minister, Nicholas Soames, said much the same but in
unprintable language. Piers Merchant, an ex-Tory MP who is now UKIP chief
executive, described the Tories as "very low on credibility".

What happens next?

What happens next?

With an election in sight, the Tories will try to maintain a united front,
despite the fierce recriminations behind the scenes - a result of humiliation in
Hartlepool. Their private polling is telling them they are taking enough support
from Labour to create a hung parliament. But the rise of UKIP and the success of
the Liberal Democrats mean they have to fight to hold on to seats they already
have. This will be Howard's first conference as party leader, and may be his
last. Andy McSmith

JANE AUSTEN GOES TO BOLLYWOOD

GURINDER CHADHA'S BIG-BUDGET NEW FILM IS AN ALL-SINGING, ALL-DANCING TAKE ON
PRIDE AND PREJUDICE'

What's the story?

Gurinder Chadha (right), director of Bend It Like Beckham, is back with Bride
and Prejudice, a no-expense-spared musical take on Jane Austen's novel. Set in
modern- day London, LA and Bombay, Chadha has swapped the Bennets for the Bakshi
family and stiff corsets for saris, with Aishwarya Rai (Bollywood's highest-paid
star) as the Elizabeth Bennet character and Martin (The Ring) Henderson as the
dashing Mr Darcy. It's an all-singing, all-dancing affair, with Bollywood-style
dream sequences.

What are they saying?

"Chadha relies too heavily on the Bollywood formula. It is almost as if she uses
a checklist," says Indian film critic Priyanka Gill. "Having the cast lapse into
song is weird, as they sing English numbers with Indian melodies thrown in,
while Henderson clearly looks uncomfortable prancing about." But the director is
confident it will be a success: "What I've ended up with is a nod to Bollywood
and to Hollywood ... The book's themes have all been brought out, but with an
Indian twist."

What happens next?

It could go either way - Mira Nair's recent Indian take on Thackeray's Vanity
Fair was panned in the US despite boasting a stellar cast. If Bride and
Prejudice is well received, it will consolidate Bollywood's place within the
film industry and bring the genre to a wider audience. As for Chadha, she has
already made the transition from indie film-maker to Hollywood player, with a
couple of big-budget, big-name projects in the pipeline as well as plans to turn
Bend it Like Beckham into a (Bollywood?) musical. Henrietta Roussoulis

SPOTLIGHT FOCUSES ON AFRICA

BLAIR LAUNCHES THE AFRICA COMMISSION, DESIGNED TO ADDRESS A SCAR ON THE WORLD'S
CONSCIENCE

What's the story?

Tuesday will see the inaugural meeting of one of Tony Blair's cherished
projects, the Africa Commission, which brings together such diverse
personalities as Sir Bob Geldof (right) and Michel Camdessus, a former head of
the IMF. At the last election, Blair promised that lifting Africa out of poverty
would be one of Labour's big priorities. He said that Africa is "a scar on the
conscience of the world, but if the world as a community focused on it, we could
heal it".

What are they saying?

While most aid agencies give the commission a guarded welcome, some are
sceptical. Peter Hardstaff, head of policy at the World Development Movement,
called it "a diversionary tactic designed to draw attention away from 30 years
of broken promises on Africa", and warned that it could undermine other
international forums, such as this summer's meeting of the UN Conference on
Trade and Development and next year's planned UN summit on the Millennium
Development Goals.

What happens next?

Tony Blair and Gordon Brown will host a press conference in 10 Downing Street.
The last time they had a media event to publicise Africa it received almost no
publicity, because it coincided with an outburst from former International
Development Secretary Clare Short, who alleged that the British had bugged the
UN General Secretary, Kofi Annan. Now, the commission may have a struggle
finding new solutions when western governments are showing no inclination to
increase their aid budgets. Francis Elliott

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              289 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 3, 2004

The people are turning, but it's too late for the Useless Tories

BYLINE: PETER HITCHENS

SECTION: FB; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1014 words


THE voters' response to the ghastly masquerade of the Labour conference has been
to throw out the official-opposition. This looks odd but is actually a very
reasonable thing to do.

We wouldn't be in this mess stuck in a foolish war nobody wanted, having to
listen to the drivel from our Mary Poppins premier, and submit to all these
taxes and so much incompetence if the Tories had done the job we pay them for
during the past seven years.

They have failed, and they have now been sacked as Her Majesty's Opposition.

The official notification, I hope, will come through at the General Election.

We will then be able to create a new party that can do the job.

The Hartlepool result is not meaningless, as most byelections used to be. It
follows several others, from Brent to Birmingham and Leicester, where there is
one uniting theme the Tories are so useless that people would rather vote for
joke parties such as the Liberal Democrats and UKIP.

This does not mean that they are fooled by Charles Kennedy or seduced by Kilroy.
It means that they, unlike Tory leaders, are angry at the way the country is
being dragged to the Left and made unrecognisable.

It takes several forms: the relentless, shameless lying about everything from
education to crime; the maddening way in which everybody but law-abiding,
employed British people seems to be favoured by the courts; the ruthless Marxoid
destruction of private life and modest private savings; the unleashing of booze,
drugs, loveless sex and gambling; the abuse of the courage of our Armed Forces.

Millions of us hate it and want it stopped, but then we watch the Useless Tories
joining in with it and copying it and pandering to it, foolishly thinking that
selecting more homosexual MPs or going soft on the EU is the way to recover.

UKIP has gathered millions of votes without the support of any major newspaper
and despite the icy contempt of the BBC. The Liberal Democrats have grown not
because of what they are a fog of contradictions but because of who and what
they are not.

Both are symptoms of a powerful yearning for blood and fire in a political world
drained of true opposition. The British people are turning. It is a dangerous
moment.

Let us hope that a new and decent movement can be created to voice their needs.
If not, as I keep warning, the future could be very nasty.

THANKS very much to the incompetent, self-obsessed Countryside Alliance
protesters who managed to hit me with an egg on Tuesday. Good shooting, guys.

But getting yolk all over my trousers is rather typical of this shrill
organisation, which has made a bad mess of a basically good cause.

A sinister way to silence hecklers

DARE to heckle one of our great war leaders and they have a stock answer: 'At
least we have democracy here so you can do that.' The trouble is that this
fabled democracy doesn't like being criticised.

If you interrupt a speech by George Bush or Princess Tony, you are set upon by
musclemen and dragged from the hall.

It is even worse, and rather sinister, that those who dared to interrupt our
Supreme Great Leader were arrested and carted off in custody. I gather they have
now been released on bail. But what offence are they supposed to have committed?

I wonder if Labour activist David Hide is also to be prosecuted for refusing to
join the sycophantic, undeserved standing ovation at the end of the speech.
Party officials banned him from the hall for his dignified protest.

As far as I know, there is as yet no law banning heckling. A proper politician
ought to be able to handle and overcome a bit of opposition.

And the shouting at Brighton was nothing to the organised barracking used by
Labour MPs to destroy any threat to their Ministers in the Commons.

The monster that is the motorist ...

IF THE Good Samaritan had driven a Mercedes, he would have passed by on the
other side of the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Jericho, leaving the
wounded victim bleeding on the verge.

He would have been just another Bad Samaritan, and one of the most important
stories in history would never have been told.

Cars do something horrible to us and our society, turning gentle, considerate
people into selfish, heartless monsters. That is why a young woman was left
bleeding by the roadside last week.

A squalid gesture but we've seen worse

IN THE end I cannot really get very upset about Jack Straw's handshake,
apparently in the dark, with Robert Mugabe. If his boss can do it with Gerry
Adams (whose proffered hand I have several times refused to take) and Colonel
Gaddafi and Yasser Arafat, then why shouldn't Jack do the minor-league monsters?

USING rural post offices as contact points for the police is yet another gimmick
which does not solve the problem that the police have deserted the streets and
the countryside. David Blunkett seems to think the job of the police is
paperwork, so he gets half-trained 'community support officers' and
sub-postmistresses to fill in the gap. And they call him tough and effective.

THE police used to be dignified. Now they are ingratiating followers of fashion,
and a lot less nice with it. On the side of a huge armoured police van full of
cameras, Sussex police display the words, 'Smile, you're on CCTV'. Who is this
false mateyness aimed at? What possible purpose can it have?

HAS radical chic finally come full circle? I spotted a team of dustmen last week
with pictures of Che Guevara on their Day-Glo jerkins, above the slogan 'It's a
waste revolution'. Yes, quite. Guevara was indeed rubbish. But for many councils
'Blowing in the wind' would be a better slogan for their refuse services.

GORDON Brown MMR watch, week 16. The Chancellor busily milked his personal life
in interviews last week, making plenty of mentions of young John's paddling pool
and sandpit. If we can be told about the bairn's sandpit, and the poor mite can
be carted around receptions at the Labour conference, then why not tell us
whether he will be having the triple jab?

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              290 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 3, 2004

Tories'Pounds 20bn tax bonanza

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS; JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: FB; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 583 words


A DRAMATIC pledge to slash taxes by up to Pounds 20billion is planned by Michael
Howard in a desperate attempt to revive his party's fading hopes of winning the
next Election.

A secret package of tax reductions aimed at helping Middle England voters is
being drawn up by Conservative chiefs and will be unveiled as the centrepiece of
their Election manifesto.

The scale of the task facing Mr Howard is underlined by the results of a
devastating YouGov poll for The Mail on Sunday.

Conservative support has slipped from 40 per cent in January to 29, the first
time it has dropped below 30 since the last Election.

The party trails Labour by six points.

Mr Howard is less popular than Iain Duncan Smith when he was ousted as leader
last year, and is haemorrhaging votes to Robert Kilroy-Silk, of the
anti-European UK Independence Party. The Tory leader's ratings have fallen from
57 points in May to 28 now.

As activists arrive today in Bournemouth for the party's annual conference,
Shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin will prepare the ground for tax handouts. He
will argue that high taxes are immoral and will follow it up by setting out the
economic case for taking action.

Officials are ready to publish a document setting out which taxes they hope to
cut.

Top of their hit-list is the 40 per cent top rate of income tax, which affects
people with taxable income of more than Pounds 31,500 a year. When the top rate
was introduced it was meant to apply to the rich but it is now paid by millions
of ordinary people including policemen, teachers and skilled manual workers.

The Conservatives hope to increase the threshold closer to Pounds 40,000 a year,
saving people up to Pounds 1,000 a year. They intend to cut stamp duty on house
purchases, fuel duty and inheritance tax to make it easier for people to pass on
wealth to their children. Mr Howard is also looking at ways of reversing
Labour's controversial decision to remove Pounds 5 billion a year from pension
funds.

The tax plan has led to a split in the Shadow Cabinet. While Mr Howard, Mr
Letwin and co-chairman Lord Saatchi are reluctant to commit themselves to tax
cuts until closer to the Election, other Shadow Ministers such as David Davis,
John Redwood and Liam Fox want a firm pledge.

Businessman David James has come up with savings worth billions of pounds to pay
for tax cuts, including axing the trade and industry, culture, and
constitutional affairs departments.

Scores of health and education authorities and dozens of quangos would go, with
resources switched to frontline services.

A senior Tory adviser said: 'We are determined to establish clear blue water
between us and Labour.

'People are fed up with Labour's stealth taxes and we believe that we can offer
major tax reductions without any risk to the economy.' But Labour's Election
chief Alan Milburn said: 'The Tories' desperation is forcing them to promise tax
cuts they cannot afford, based on savings they cannot find and spending cuts
they dare not name.' The YouGov poll emphasises the new menace to Mr Howard from
UKIP, which overtook the Tories in the Hartlepool byelection.

In our poll, 12 per cent said they would definitely consider voting for UKIP. Mr
Kilroy-Silk rejected calls for a pact with Tories, which would mean UKIP
candidates not standing against anti-EU Conservatives.

He said: ' Why would you want to give it the kiss of life? We should kill it and
replace it that is our destiny.'

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              291 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 3, 2004

'Pounds 2bn saving' from Brown's new tax form

BYLINE: TOM MCGHIE

SECTION: C1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


GORDON Brown will launch a blitz on red tape next month in an attempt to
generate billions of pounds of extra revenue by simplifying tax forms.

The most dramatic example of the simplification process is the VAT registration
form seven pages long with 28 sections.

From November, the form will be reduced to a couple of pages of easy questions.
Treasury officials calculate that this measure will lead to an extra Pounds 2
billion flowing into Government coffers equivalent to a 1p cut in income tax.

Treasury studies have revealed that honest errors in filling in this form have
alone deprived the Exchequer of Pounds 2 billion.

The Chancellor is looking for extra savings following the merger of Customs &
Excise and the Inland Revenue, which is expected to lead to more efficient tax
collection.

According to Treasury sources, the Chancellor is 'buzzing' with ideas to lift
the burden from small businesses. Most of his ideas come from America.

Financial Mail revealed last week that the Chancellor was considering measures
to make it easier to form a company and then pass it on to others on retirement.

He wants to cut the present seven-day waiting time to incorporate a business
and, at the other end of an entrepreneur's career, to ease the regulatory
burdens involved in passing it on.

The war on red tape comes as the Tory party has gone flat out to exploit the
growing regulation mountain. John Redwood has been brought back into the Shadow
Cabinet as the party's anti-red tape and regulations czar.

Polling evidence shows that businesses, especially small firms, are becoming
'obsessed' with the mountain of regulations.

Even the rapidly growing UK Independence Party has selected red tape as a
winning electoral issue. Too many rules and too much paperwork are strangling
Britain's 3.8 million small businesses, the party has warned.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              292 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                October 3, 2004

His time's up, but the lesson of Hartlepool is lost on Blair

BYLINE: HARRY BLACKWOOD

SECTION: NE2; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 942 words


DESPITE his latest health problems, Tony Blair seems determined to lead his
party into the next Election and continue long after that.

If that's his sincere intention, he's either arrogant, stupid or stubborn
perhaps all three.

No doubt those closest to the Prime Minister are trying to persuade him that now
might be a good time to call it a day.

They should ignore the medical concerns for a minute and show Blair the
Hartlepool by-election result. If that doesn't scare him into an early
retirement then nothing will.

Before Thursday's vote, Hartlepool was one of the safer Labour seats in the
country. The party has held it for more than half a century and even the deeply
unpopular and totally discredited Peter Mandelson managed a majority of more
than 14,000 at the last General Election.

So how could a local candidate chosen for his New Labour credentials lose such a
whopping majority and edge home by just 2,033 votes?

One factor is that the Liberal Democrats had a superb candidate and fought an
excellent campaign. It's also obvious there was a good deal of tactical voting.

But we must also question why Labour didn't bring Blair himself into the
Hartlepool battleground. He's only in the constituency next door and he is the
Prime Minister. Surely any candidate would want his boss on the stump, shaking a
few hands and kissing babies?

So why wasn't he there?

Simple: The man who was an election-winning gem for Labour has lost his sparkle.

I hate to kick a man when he's down but Blair is now more of a liability than an
asset. The sooner he accepts that, the better it will be for him, his family and
his party.

THE Hartlepool by-election result confirms my belief that the Conservative Party
is now a spent force in British politics. It was a mark of its members'
desperation that when they discovered they'd finished a humiliating fourth,
trailing UKIP by 149 votes, they demanded a recount.

Thankfully, they salvaged some pride when their candidate, Jeremy Middleton,
delivered by far the best speech of the night. The Tories are certainly getting
the hang of being gracious in defeat. It must be all the practice they are
getting.

Tyne's being sold down the river

THE Government constantly crows about what it's done for the region's jobless.
Apparently, we've never had it so good.

But a glance up the River Tyne presents a different picture to the one portrayed
at the Labour Party Conference.

A horrendous downturn in work has meant that ship repair specialist A&P is
mothballing its Wallsend yard, putting 350 jobs in jeopardy. The giant Amec
group also announced this week that things haven't improved since it axed 500
jobs in June and it does not see a long-term future on the Tyne.

To add to the depressing picture, the Northern Offshore Federation is warning
that 6,000 jobs in its sector could be lost this year.

The way things are going there'll be nothing left but fog on the Tyne for Tony
Blair to sing about at next year's conference.

ACCORDING to Government spin, the proposed North-East Assembly will elect
members using proportional representation.

Not so. Of the 25 seats, the first 15 will be first-past-the-post. Only ten will
be decided proportionally.

So, the Labour mafia will get the first 15 seats as well as a few of the ten
others. No wonder they are so keen on the assembly.

THE North East acquired a new airport this week well, an old one with a new
name, to be precise.

Sadly, the launch of Durham Tees Valley Airport (that's Teesside Airport to you
and me) didn't exactly go without a hitch.

An expensive, glossy brochure extolling the virtues of the 'new' airport
contained an article about Majorca complete with a picture of what was supposed
to be Palma Cathedral.

Unfortunately the picture was not of Palma Cathedral but Durham Cathedral. Oh
well, what's in a name?

At last, traffic police collar a genuine villain

THERE'S no question that police forces throughout the North have been waging a
war on motorists for some time.

Normally I have sympathy for those who are pulled over by the traffic Taliban,
but I'll make an exception for ex-miner Brian Davidson. The Ashington dad of
four has just been fined Pounds 30 after police nicked him because of the
excessive noise coming from his car. I reckon he got off lightly.

Apparently, the 47-year old, who reckons he's a fan of dance music, was
listening to Radio One at full volume.

In my book anyone over the age of 18 who is caught listening to Radio One should
be shot. . . at the very least.

Forget Rooney, we should salute real heroes like Tanni

THERE'S no doubt that the boy Rooney done good last week with a hat-trick on his
Manchester United debut.

No sooner had the third goal hit the back of the net than praise was heaped on
him from all quarters.

But why on earth isn't Redcar wheelchair racer Tanni Grey-Thompson being
showered with the same sort of adulation?

The 35-year-old spina bifida sufferer picked up two gold medals at the Athens
Paralympic Games and returned home to less of a welcome than Rooney gets driving
into the Man Utd training ground.

Add Tanni's latest successes to the rest of her haul of gold medals and you have
our most successful paralympian of all time. Just a small matter of 11 gold
medals.

Rooney was born with tremendous natural talent but he's won nothing yet.

Tanni, on the other hand, was born with a severe handicap and still she's been
picking up gold medals like they're going out of fashion.

How about making a bit of a fuss over someone who truly deserves it?

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              293 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 3, 2004

Politics special: Tories in Bournemouth: Howard: trouble to the left, trouble to
the right: Having finished fourth to Ukip in the Hartlepool by-election, the
Conservatives head to Bournemouth. Where now for a party in crisis?

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1646 words


SOMEWHERE IN THE bleary early hours of last Friday morning, a bunch of jubilant
strangers gatecrashed the victory party of Labour's newest MP.

The activists from the anti-European UK Independence Party (Ukip) might
ordinarily have expected to be barred from the Hartlepool HQ of Ian Wright. But
not, it seems, on a by-election night on which they forced the Conservatives
into a humiliating fourth place. 'As we'd beaten the Tories, we were welcome,'
recalls Clive Page, their Hartlepool spokesman.

This weekend, as he prepares for his first party conference as Conservative
leader, Michael Howard faces a peculiarly unholy alliance against him.

From the right, Ukip is marching on the Tory heartlands with its promises of
withdrawal from the EU; to the left, the Liberal Democrats are scooping up the
disaffected Labour protest votes that Howard needs. Squeezed in the middle are
the Tories, trying to decide where to open fire first.

This week, Howard's team will unveil plans for their first day, first week and
first month in government, a bold move to make them look poised triumphantly on
the brink of power. Just days after what shadow defence secretary Nicholas
Soames succinctly described as a 'fucking awful' result in Hartlepool, they
might struggle to look convincing.

Last night Howard revealed his thinking saying that the timetable for government
would offer 'no wriggle room at all' and would enable the voters to ensure that
any new Conservative government was honouring its commitments.

'What we want is action,' Howard said. 'Less talk, more action. People want to
know that when their prime minister says something, it will actually happen.
They want to know their prime minister has the will to make it happen. 'That's
why the Conservatives are publishing a specific Timetable for Action so specific
that there is no wriggle room at all. So what you see is what you get.'

The irony of Howard's miserable position - he was elected unopposed as a unity
candidate more than 11 months ago following the vicious disposal of Iain Duncan
Smith has done most of what his party asked. He has restored the Tories'
credibility at Westminster, boosted dwindling membership, opened party donors'
chequebooks and quelled the destructive eternal plotting.

The only thing he has not done is actually win over voters. Trust in Tony Blair
has collapsed, but that is prompting a backlash against all mainstream politi
cians, not enthusiasm for Howard. One year later, recent polls reveal that
nearly one Tory in five would rather see Blair in Downing Street than his own
party: Blair scores higher than Howard on both competence and being 'in touch' -
and highest of all among potential Tory swing voters.

Stephan Shakespeare of YouGov, the party's former pollsters, says they are no
longer flatlining in the polls: it's worse than that. 'You would normally be
expecting a rising curve going into the next election to get in reach of the
target,' he says. 'The fact it has stayed where it is means they are, in
reality, going backwards.'

No wonder the mood, as the party faithful gather in Bournemouth, is queasy, not
least among Tory MPs with knife-edge majorities. 'There will be fluttering in
the dovecotes over this,' says one veteran frontbencher, ominously. 'Conference
is going to be difficult.'

Howard will try to calm his restive party, as Blair did his last week. He will
not, frontbenchers insist, be panicked into offering specific tax cuts, although
Oliver Letwin, the shadow Chancellor, will send broad signals. And there will be
no overblown rhetoric, no 'big ideas': just small, practical policies, with a
promise that ministers who fail to deliver them will be fired. The Tories hope
this will reassure a new breed of floating voter, convinced grandiose political
promises cannot be trusted.

'How many big ideas have we had from Blair? "A thousand days for a thousand
years"; "the young country"; "the giving age"; "healing the scars of Africa",'
says David Cameron, formerly Howard's special adviser and now his shadow cabinet
policy co-ordinator. 'People are fed up with politicians grandstanding.'

The task instead, as chairman Liam Fox will tell the conference tomorrow, is for
the Tories to prove that 'political parties are not all the same'.

The risk, however, is that such low-key language will be drowned out in a
cacophony of conflicting advice from the sidelines, with right-wingers demanding
more Euro-scepticism to prevent Ukip defectors. Can Howard stick to his course?

The word that Howard's political admirers use most often of him is 'decisive'.
'He is very focused on what he wants to achieve; he doesn't brook diversions,'
says Andrew Lansley, his shadow health secretary. Cameron argues Howard is more
sure of himself now than he ever was as Home Secretary: 'He seems more calm,
more measured.'

In Central Office, however, there is a whiff of panic. The first sign came with
an interview published in the anti-war New Statesman last Thursday - the day
Hartlepool went to the polls - in which Howard directly accused Blair of lying
over Iraq, a charge even Charles Kennedy has avoided.

Howard voted for the war, and still supports it: like John Kerry, the Democratic
presidential candidate whose 'flip flopping' on Iraq has damaged him, was he now
jumping belatedly on the anti-war bandwagon? Opponents scented blood. 'It's a
desperate attempt to seize ground that we're occupying,' says an indignant Tim
Razzall, the Lib Dem campaign manager. Downing Street, too, is preparing to
exploit Howard's inconsistencies on Iraq, believing the public will resent any
breaking of ranks when British troops are still under fire.

There may trouble, too, on his own side. Duncan Smith - who received
intelligence briefings in the run-up to the invasion and believes Blair acted
correctly - is understood to be seeking pledges in Howard's speech this week
that the Tories will not dilute support for the war.

The second warning sign came on the eve of polling, when the party took out a
full-page advert in Hartlepool's evening paper declaring its opposition to the
euro, the European Constitution and a federal superstate - all of which was
calculated to appeal to Ukip defectors.

'I THOUGHT THAT was desperate,' says Page, who says this when he realised his
party could beat the Tories. Ukip rubbed salt in the wounds at its own annual
conference in Bristol, with a 'victory' dinner for 200 of the faithful last
night.

However Howard's aides insist there will be no lurch to the right on Europe this
week and that there is no evidence such a move would attract the floating vote
Howard needs - and Kennedy is already getting. A poll for last week's Economist
found that, while 25 per cent of voters would be more likely to vote Tory if
Howard pledged to pull out of the EU, a third said it would make no difference
as they 'would not vote Tory anyway'.

Andrew Mackay knows a bit about Ukip supporters: the deputy party chairman's own
son, Hamish, voted for them in the European elections, 'because he wanted to
give us a bloody nose'. Hamish will be voting for his father at the next general
election, and Mackay - who is in charge of target seats - believes most of those
'protest-voting' Ukip will follow: 'I think Ukip's bubble will burst.'

His optimism is backed by polling carried out in 130 of the Labour-held seats he
oversees. It found the Tories have reversed Labour's lead in the battleground
for the next election.

'They're full of traditional Tory voters who were rather taken with Blair and
voted for him in 1997, and now they feel let down,' he said. Crucially, Labour
won many of these seats thanks only to tactical voting by Lib Dem voters, who
may not help out again. For months, Mackay has been pushing Howard's claim that
Blair lied over Iraq.

Could these tentative green shoots of Tory revival be real? Even if not, there
is no appetite among demoralised MPs for another leadership coup with a general
election so close: they accept not much can be done beyond - as Soames himself
put it - 'KBO' (Keep Buggering On).

Even the voters seem confused about what they would prefer: the top choice in
the Economist 's poll of potential leaders was not any of five senior Tories,
but 'someone younger' - a sign that they believe the Tories' Blair, someone who
can rescue the party, has not yet emerged.

However, a bad result could prompt a leadership contest, probably between David
Davis and Liam Fox on the right and Letwin, Lansley or Damian Green, the
recently deposed shadow education secretary, on the moderate wing. Sir Malcolm
Rifkind, due to return to Parliament at the next election, is also a contender.
Gentle manoeuvring may begin this week.

Shakespeare has a warning for the Conservatives - the experience of three
leaders in as many years should teach them that its problem is policies, not
people: 'Leaders have far less of an effect than we normally give credit for.
It's really about how the party is perceived to benefit the voter.'

Dominic Cummings, former head of strategy at Central Office, agrees there is 'no
magic bullet', beyond a radical intellectual refreshment of the party. Lack of
trust in Blair, he argues, is not enough to guarantee victory: 'Trust in Clinton
plummeted after the Lewinsky scandal but his job approval ratings did not.'

Lansley accepts that the Tories' first task is getting voters to trust
politicians again, but argues a centralising platform of free-market economics,
social tolerance of different lifestyles and a gentle scepticism about the EU
could prove a vote-winner: 'The 20, 30, 40-somethings who are at the heart of
those the Conservative party has to win over - that's the way they approach life
now.'

What they are not doing, yet, is approaching the party itself.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              294 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 3, 2004

Politics special: The Tories in Bournemouth: comment: Whatever the Tories do,
they're doomed

BYLINE: BY ANTHONY SELDON

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1366 words


TONY BLAIR'S boldest claim for Labour has been that the 21st century will be a
centre-left 'progressive century', in contrast to the last, now recognised as
the 'Conservative century'. During it, indeed, the Tories were in power for 70
years, either on their own or as the dominant partner in a coalition.

Their two 'secret weapons' were adaptability, which allowed the party to
champion or drop policies at will, and hunger for office, which minimised
divisions and allowed it to present a united front to the electorate.

Since becoming Labour leader 10 years ago, Blair has stolen these two weapons.
New Labour has become the supreme flexi-party, jettisoning policies and
interests that played badly with Middle England and insisting on unity at all
costs to avoid a return to the dark days of the 1980s.

Blair has thus achieved what no Labour leader has managed before: he has parked
Labour in the middle ground of British politics, much as Palmerston did in the
mid-19th century. The Tories fared badly against both men as a consequence.

But are things now different under Michael Howard? Has his presence at the helm
since November 2003 heralded a revival in Tory fortunes, or will the continuing
presence of Blair prove a fatal barrier to their return to power?

This week the Conservative leadership will try desperately in Bournemouth to put
a positive gloss on the party's fortunes. Howard knows that this is likely to be
his last conference before the general election. He is aware of criticism of his
failure to tackle Blair more effectively so far, not least over his difficulties
with Iraq and the vote to ban fox-hunting.

A cold look at recent history suggests, however, that Howard faces a task of
Herculean proportions. The most recent polls show support for the Tories
languishing at around 30-35 per cent, down on the level recorded earlier this
year, and even lower than last summer's showing under Iain Duncan Smith.

Going further back provides no more comfort. Never have such low polling numbers
been followed by the Tories' return to power. When Margaret Thatcher was
hounding James Callaghan's government, the Conservatives regularly picked up
double-digit leads before defeating Labour in the May 1979 election.

More tellingly still, between 1975 and 1979 the Tories won a series of
by-elections, overturning massive Labour majorities with swings of more than 20
per cent. Since 2001, however, they have been no more convincing at winning
by-elections than they have been in the opinion polls. Thursday's Hartlepool
result, with the Tories in fourth place behind Ukip, was a shattering blow. Far
from reviving, the party's electoral fortunes appear to be stagnating.

After previous electoral debacles, the Conservatives bounced speedily back. Four
years after its 1906 hammering, the party was level with its opponents: six
years after 1945 it was back in power, and it took only four years after the
1966 defeat for the party to be back in office. Yet, more than seven years after
1997, the Tory party seems as far from power as ever. Not for a century and a
half, since Palmerston led the Liberals, has the Tory position been so dire.

When faced with electoral difficulties during the 'Conservative century', the
party resorted to three tried and tested remedies. The most dramatic was to dump
the leader. This option, however, is not available, having elected Howard
unopposed less than a year ago.

The second remedy was to reshape and revitalise the party organisation. Again
this is no answer: since 1997 the party has been repeatedly reorganised, to
little effect.

The third historic antidote to the party's ills has been a rethink of policy.
Could this offer Howard the key to Blair's defeat? From the outset Howard
resolved to use his authority to rebuild the party's broad appeal. Despite his
lingering image as a right-winger, Howard declared that he would 'lead from the
centre'. He eschewed raising the Euro-sceptic banner and instead tackled the
government over the reform of public services.

Howard's initial centrist strategy had much in common with that of his two
predecessors. Between 1997 and 1998 William Hague presented his 'caring,
compassionate Conservatism', while in his first year Duncan Smith focused on
reforming public services.

Like Howard, they were following the electoral logic of moving the party to the
centre, hoping to capture moderate voters. However, as opinion polls failed to
respond, both Hague and Duncan Smith changed course. Not only were they failing
to pick up the moderates, they were also losing hardcore supporters who felt
alienated. Panic set in and the party lurched rightwards.

By mid-1999 Hague began to trumpet a jingoistic Euro-scepticism, while in
January 2003 Duncan Smith got tough on immigration, declaring that terrorists
posing as asylum seekers presented a 'national emergency'. Some activists
cheered. Most voters did not. For both Hague and Duncan Smith, tacking to the
right proved no more successful than their initial bid for the centre ground.

For Howard, the downside of his 'coronation' as leader was that it raised
expectations of an early recovery to an impossibly high level. Following
Howard's decision to return the party to centrist politics, the party expected
results. Why, critics asked as early as this May, were the Tories not benefiting
from Labour's extreme unpopularity? Was the centrist route failing once again?

In June, while the Tories performed respectably in the local elections, their
showing in the European elections proved hugely disappointing. Traditional
Conservative supporters deserted the party, voting instead for Ukip. There
followed a difficult summer for Howard as he failed to skewer Blair with the
Butler report and the party fared disastrously in by-elections.

In an attempt to regain the initiative, Howard launched a attack on political
correctness in August, before spelling out an uncompromising approach to
immigration in September. The recent reshuffle saw modernisers demoted, while
John Redwood, the saviour of the right, returned to the shadow cabinet.

Despite all this, Howard's aides say he will hold to a centre course this week
in Bournemouth, facing down pressure for him to follow Hague and Duncan Smith in
their right-wing acrobatics. But it seems the wrong signal has already been
sent.

The idea that the party's future lies in a return to the right owes more to
fantasy than reality. There are clear parallels with the Bennites who plagued
Labour for years. They claimed repeatedly that, if only Labour offered a purer
form of socialism, voters would reward them at the polls. Neil Kinnock, Blair
and their fellow modernisers thought otherwise and moved Labour solidly into the
centre ground.

Therein lies Howard's problem. Whatever policy platform and face he presents at
Bournemouth and beyond will make little or no difference to what happens in the
opinion polls or in the coming general election.

The painful truth for the Tories to swallow is that, as long as Blair remains in
office, backed by the Murdoch press and with the economy doing well and interest
rates low, and as long as he is able to keep Labour in the centre, Howard's room
for manoeuvre will be severely constrained.

Blair has now pledged to serve until the end of a third term. If he can endure
that long - and it is a big if - the Tories' woes will continue.

The Tories' best hope of ending the 'progressive century' before it gets into
its stride is for the New Labour project to implode. But only continued problems
in Iraq, an upsurge in international terrorism or an economic debacle of ERM
proportions can unseat Blair. Events in Iraq will be more important to the
Conservatives than anything that might happen in Bournemouth.

Anthony Seldon is headmaster of Brighton College, a biographer and an historian.

'The Conservative Party: An Illustrated History', by Anthony Seldon and Peter
Snowdon, is published this week by Sutton Publishing at £25. To order a copy for
£23 with free UK p&p, call the Observer Books Service on 0870 836 0885 or go to
observer.co.uk/bookshop.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              295 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 3, 2004

Comment: ... as Tories sink: General election defeat is inevitable

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 274 words


WHILE LABOUR chews over these events, the Conservatives face their own
leadership dilemma. Coming fourth in the Hartlepool byelection last week was not
only humiliating but a storm warning of what the general election may portend.
An opposition party that cannot win byelections has never gone on to win a
general election. The Conservatives still trail Labour in most opinion polls,
and the first-past-the-post system concentrates the Tory vote where it is not
needed, so making a significant opinion-poll lead the prerequisite for even
matching Labour's seats in the House of Commons. Barring a miracle, the next
general election is already lost.

The Conservative's strategic problem is that they are sandwiched between the
increasingly strong Liberal Democrats and the passionate right-wing
anti-Europeans in Ukip, the two forces that did for them in Hartlepool. It would
be hard for Labour supporters not to feel some Schadenfreude over the Tories'
plight, for Ukip is substantially the invention of Britain's Eurosceptic
right-wing press which consistently misrepresents the European Union, indulged
by a significant wing of the Tory party.

Only in Britain does a hysterical part of public opinion depict the EU as evil
and malevolent. The readers of the Eurosceptic conservative press are the most
reliable Ukip voters, and it is they who have split the Tory vote and are
forcing the party to trim to the wilder edges of right-wing opinion, leaving New
Labour to straddle the centre of British politics where general elections are
won. With friends like the right-of-centre press, the Conservatives needs no
enemies.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

You've got to laugh

BYLINE: Alex Clark

SECTION: Features; Culture; 53

LENGTH: 619 words


ADRIAN MOLE AND THE WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION. By Sue Townsend. M Joseph
£16.99 pp352

There's a moment in this seventh instalment of Adrian Mole's much-loved diaries
when you begin to think that he might, at last, be on to something. Now in his
mid-thirties, Adrian is as fond of corresponding with the great and the good as
ever, and is not averse to offering them a bit of friendly advice. By the time
he gets round to Tim Henman, he has already tipped Clare Short the wink about
her dress sense ("The scarves you have taken to wearing are less successful than
you think"), counselled Jordan on the potential damage to her ribcage caused by
her ample superstructure and gently chided David Beckham on the subject of
grammar.

But with Henman, he excels himself. Banish your mother and father from centre
court, he advises, and take lessons from Vinnie Jones in improving your
threatening clenched-fist, forearm-lifting gestures. And, moreover, "Forbid your
fans from shouting out, 'Come on Tim!'. It makes you sound as though you are
coming fourth in the egg and spoon race at junior school."

Which of us has not felt that exactly these adjustments would improve Henman's
chances immeasurably?

Adrian's ability to voice our most trivial but heartfelt responses to popular
and political culture is what has made him our most successful chronicler of
recent decades; that he is also narcissistic, gauche, uptight, self-deluding and
simultaneously puritanical and licentious can only make him more attractive, and
more soothing to our collective sense of self-doubt.

But in The Weapons of Mass Destruction, Sue Townsend nudges Adrian's
determination to plough his own furrow, however lonely it may prove, into darker
and edgier territory. As its title suggests, the novel plays out against the
gathering clouds of war in Iraq, a state of affairs of which Adrian approves.
His implicit trust of Tony Blair leads him to believe that proof for invasion
will turn up at any moment; the chorus of naysayers, which includes Pandora
Braithwaite, his childhood sweetheart, and Daisy Flowers, Adrian's new love
interest, does little to sway him. Nor does the imminent deployment of his elder
son, Glenn Bott-Mole, to the Gulf, with inadequate equipment and little more
than basic training.

Among the running jokes about Adrian's mounting debt (ever keen to surf the
zeitgeist, he has been seduced into buying an extortionately expensive loft
apartment in the insalubrious Rat Wharf and furnishing it courtesy of a
proliferating wedge of credit cards), his disastrous love life and his yet more
disastrous attempts to establish literary salon culture in the East Midlands,
there is a feeling of catastrophe. Superbugs infest hospital wards; Adrian's
best friend is losing his sight, as Townsend has, giving rise to some of the
novel's most furious asides; Leicester finds itself home to a disquieting
outpost of the UK Independence party. And, meanwhile, 17-year-old Glenn finds
himself shot at in Basra, his adolescence filled with perils that, at the same
age, his neurotic, sex-obsessed father could barely have imagined.

It would be inaccurate to describe this as much more than a well-executed comic
novel in which Townsend returns to her most celebrated creation and delivers
another slice of comforting if not especially subtle satire. And yet the sense
of foreboding she creates is hard to dismiss out of hand. Her final lines, which
bring us to the very recent past, resemble more than anything a sort of envoy,
as if she might, finally, be telling us that we're on our own now.

Available at the Sunday Times Books First price of £13.59 plus Pounds 2.25 p&p
on 0870 165 8585


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fiction; Books

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              297 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

Howard is warned heads must roll

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and Dipesh Gadher

SECTION: Home news; News; 2

LENGTH: 454 words


MICHAEL HOWARD, the Tory leader, has been urged by his supporters to cull those
responsible for the party's dismal by-election campaign in Hartlepool last week.

As the party prepares for its Bournemouth conference tomorrow, there have been
bitter recriminations over their poor performance in Thursday's poll, which saw
them struggle into fourth place.

Senior Tories are calling for a shake-up among the party's election organisers.

One leading MP said: "To a certain extent it has gone beyond individual
scapegoats for these terrible failures, but someone needs to start taking
responsibility and some heads should roll."

Lord Tebbit, one of the key architects of Lady Thatcher's three election
triumphs, slammed his party for lacking spirit. "It was pretty awful. The
campaign was dreadful. There were difficulties over the candidate and it had the
feeling of a campaign that had given up before it had started," he said.

Salt was further rubbed into Conservative wounds at yesterday's inaugural
conference of the UK Independence party (UKIP), which beat the Tories to third
place on Thursday.

"The Conservative party is dying," said Robert Kilroy-Silk, the UKIP MEP, in a
speech to the 1,100-strong audience in Bristol. "Why would you want to give it
the kiss of life? What we have to do is to kill it and replace it. That is our
destiny. That is our opportunity."

The Bournemouth conference is Howard's first as party leader. Tebbit believes
Howard will make a good prime minister, but argues that he is not helped by
those around him.

"At Westminster there seems to be a lack of spirit. They are a very lacklustre
bunch on both the front bench and the back benches. Interestingly, at the
grassroots level there is a better spirit," said Tebbit.

The former Tory chairman is calling for clear dividing lines to be drawn between
Labour and Conservatives. "Incredibly, the country thinks of Blair as right of
centre and he has pushed Howard into the perception that he is extreme right
wing -and he isn't. He needs big themes and a marching tune. At the moment there
is not the mood that the country wants to change."

Howard will use the theme "Timetable for Action" for the conference this week.
He will set out how a new Tory government would impose strict schedules for
policies to be implemented. Failing ministers would be sacked.

Labour will use the Tory conference to launch a new "attack ad" on Howard
calling him "Desperate Man". Paul Boateng, the chief secretary to the Treasury,
claimed: "The only guaranteed cut you will get from the Tories is a big cut in
spending on schools, hospitals, the police and defence."

The Tories at rock bottom Rod Liddle, page 18


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

Will the real opposition please stand up?

BYLINE: Andrew Porter and David Smith

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 1457 words


Pushed into fourth place in Hartlepool, the Tories stand on the brink of
oblivion. Can Howard led them forward or will Kennedy finish them off? Andrew
Porter and David Smith report.

Desperate times call for desperate jokes. "On a day when all the talk is of
hearts, I can tell you that we are very much in good heart on the eve of our
conference," the Tory communications chief Guy Black quipped lamely on Friday as
Tony Blair was admitted to hospital.

Perhaps Black should be forgiven. Sitting in the trendy new Conservative Central
Office, above a Starbucks cafe in bustling Victoria Street, he was speaking 12
hours after the Tories' worst by-election result in living memory.

Hanging over the party conference, which starts in Bournemouth tomorrow, is the
humiliation of Hartlepool, where the Tories came fourth with a paltry 3,044
votes, behind the UK Independence party (UKIP). It is the first time since the
second world war that the once-mighty Conservative party has been beaten into
fourth place.

A host of excuses were trotted out by Tory apologists. "Hartlepool was never a
viable option," they said. "Don't read anything into by-elections."

Nicholas Soames, the shadow defence secretary and grandson of Winston Churchill,
could not put a brave face on it, however. In a disarmingly frank aside, he
described the result as "f****** awful".

These are indeed awful days for the Conservatives. For a while after Michael
Howard was elected leader 11 months ago the party seemed to be emerging from its
years in the wilderness. It was a false dawn.

The Tories are now staring at the possibility of becoming the third party in
British politics, discarded by a nation that enjoys the fruits of Thatcherism
while embracing the warm glow of new Labour and Liberal Democrat values. There
is even talk of sitting Tory MPs defecting to the Lib Dems.

At Labour's conference in Brighton last week, both Blair and Gordon Brown, the
chancellor, talked of a "progressive" Britain, with voters buying into social
liberalism, redistribution and tax-funded public services rather than the
private-sector alternative.

To some commentators it was top-level new Labour claptrap; but, according to a
YouGov poll, Blair's vision chimes with majority opinion. Asked to place
themselves and political leaders on a left-right spectrum, respondents put the
prime minister in the centre -and the majority put themselves there too. They
placed Howard well to the right, and only a small minority of voters identified
with him.

An ICM poll for the New Frontiers think tank today shows that by 49% to 32%
voters see Labour as more in touch with the issues that concern people than the
Tories are.

While only 19% of voters are happy with Labour, a further 40% would prefer
sticking with Blair to backing the Tories. Only 29% are both unhappy with Labour
and would vote for the Tories.

If Howard is seen as way off to the political right, the Lib Dem leader Charles
Kennedy -perceived by voters to be slightly to the left of Blair -is closer to
the progressive consensus. Could the Lib Dems overtake the Conservatives at
Westminster to become Britain's main opposition party?

Lord Razzall, the Liberal Democrats' election organiser, argues that their
performance at Hartlepool -the party's candidate Jody Dunn got within 2,000
votes of beating Labour to first place -is a historic breakthrough.

"This is a mind-numbingly bad result for the Tories," he said. "In recent times
we have seen by-elections where they have come nowhere across a broad section of
the country -Birmingham, the east Midlands, London and the northeast. It seems
that the only areas they think they can fight and win in now are leafy suburbs
and rural areas."

The Tories have made no progress between their landslide defeat in the 1997
general election and their second defeat in 2001. Their failure to bounce back
from a heavy defeat is unusual and, for the party, alarming. A third election in
which they were stuck at between 160 and 170 seats, with the Lib Dems adding
20-30 to their current 55, could start to change the political landscape.

"Not only would the Lib Dems have the all-important momentum with them but they
would be moving towards a position where they could start to cut deals on
proportional representation," said one Westminster observer.

Matthew Taylor, the Lib Dem party chairman, is jubilant. "I think the
Conservatives are in the nightmare scenario where they have been forced to give
up reaching out to new voters and are instead having to shore up their core," he
said.

"Michael Howard has had his 'Hague moment' and is now concentrating on those
issues like immigration and Europe just to try and hold on to their the position
they were at after the last general election.

"There has to be a tipping point and that could come when people realise the
Tories may not be the second-place party for ever. We have seen what can happen.

The Canadian Conservative party went from government to being virtually wiped
out in a first-past-the-post system -it can be very cruel system."

That is true; but it does not mean that Lib Dems will automatically overtake the
Tories at Westminster.

Just as the electoral system favours Labour over the Tories, so it acts against
the third party in relation to the two main parties: hence the Lib Dems'
long-standing call for proportional representation. And that may not be the Lib
Dems' only problem.

"Their support is by some distance the shallowest of all the major parties,"
said Professor Colin Rallings, the Plymouth University psephologist. "Even with
the Tories' difficulties only two parties are currently seen as being able to
win a general election. If you want your vote to count there is pressure to vote
for one of them, and that tends to cap the Lib Dem performance.

"The psephology is also quite stark. A 5% swing to the Lib Dems from the Tories
would yield only 15 seats; a similar swing from Labour just six. Even a 10%
swing to the Lib Dems would only net them an extra 58 seats -all but 13 from
Tories."

If that is any comfort to the Conservatives, the task still facing the party in
Bournemouth this week is to reverse the trend and find the road back from the
political dead -just as the Labour party itself did in the 1990s.

The dilemma is which way to go in order to garner new votes. A YouGov poll for
The Economist last week underlined Howard's problem. He is simultaneously being
pulled to the right and the left in his search for support.

The poll showed that he could achieve a net gain on the right by taking a
tougher stance on immigration and promising withdrawal from the European Union,
winning back disenchanted Tory voters who have deserted the party for UKIP.

The poll also showed, however, that the Tories would gain support by moving in
Labour's direction -pledging to spend more on public services and playing down
their emphasis on tax cuts.

"The problem for the Tories is that they've lost so much of their natural
territory to Labour on one side and UKIP on the other that they don't have an
obvious political home," said one political analyst.

Some Tories believe that the party has to be more progressive to muscle in on
Labour's ground. Michael Portillo, their most articulate proponent, is retiring
from politics at the next election, however.

On the other wing of the party, John Redwood, the "maverick" former minister
recently brought back into the shadow cabinet, says that the Conservatives need
to show UKIP supporters that only the Tories can offer a Eurosceptic perspective
where it matters.

"People need to understand if they vote UKIP they will end up with a more
federalist solution," he said. "I appeal to them to believe in the cause and I
think we just have to get across that message. This is the first time the
British public can have the opportunity to vote in a prime minister who
advocates having considerably less power coming from Europe."

Hanging over this debate is the ghost of the once-powerful Liberal party, which
alternated with the Tories in governing Britain throughout the 19th century and
early 20th, but was virtually wiped out by the rise of the Labour party.

Howard's task is to save the party of Disraeli from suffering the same fate as
Gladstone's. But poll findings show that only a fifth of voters think he is the
right man for the job.

"There is a sea-change in modern politics only when widespread dissatisfaction
with a government's performance coincides with the emergence of a charismatic
and determined alternative -think Thatcher and Blair," said a gloomy Tory.

"Howard is no Thatcher or Blair or even Gordon Brown."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

The Tories are at rock bottom -and falling

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 1147 words


The defence secretary Geoff Hoon appeared on the BBC's Question Time on Thursday
evening, reprising his popular impression of the Peter Sellers character from
Hal Ashby's wonderful film Being There.

If you remember, Sellers played the role of Chauncey Gardiner, an imbecile
inexplicably elevated to nearly the highest of political offices. If Sellers had
added a glossy emulsion of epic self-importance to his part, it would have been
ol' "Buff" Hoon to a tee. He drew astonished gasps from the audience and
co-panellists alike for the fatuity and pomposity of his contributions.

Beside him, the Conservatives' Dr Liam Fox was incisive and clever. But then,
beside Hoon a bowl of oxtail soup would appear incisive and clever. Geoff is the
living, or semi-living, embodiment of new Labour. He is utterly charmless and
few people are gullible enough to believe him. Like new Labour, he is profoundly
disliked.

Earlier that day, though, the people of Hartlepool, or some of them, traipsed
down to the polling booths and duly returned to office Iain Wright, the Labour
candidate. They put Doc Fox's party in fourth place, below even the foam flecked
UK Independence party recidivists.

"Christ," a Tory MP friend said to me the following morning, all bleary-eyed and
guttural and woebegone, staring deep into his disintegrating political soul. "We
can't sink any lower." No? Oh yes you can, mate. Wait until May 2005. We'll see
just how far you can sink then, or at least shortly after.

Conservative friends of mine -a diminishing breed, I accept -have for some years
revelled in the abject misery of a certain sort of historical association. They
look back at Labour's long exile from power (and sanity) and ask each other what
stage their own party has now reached, by way of comparison.

Are we Labour in 1992, about to lose an election narrowly but unquestionably on
the right track? they muse. The more pessimistic of them aver that it is still
1987: much internal reform is needed and, at the least, two more party leaders.

But even this most disaffected rump is insufficiently pessimistic. In so far as
such comparisons hold, for the Tories it is -at best -early spring 1983.

It has been early spring 1983 for the Tories for several years now and at the
moment it looks likely to remain early spring 1983 indefinitely. Hell of a year,
1983. Big hair. Shoulder pads. Tears for Fears and Culture Club riding high in
the charts.

Back then, Labour had recently lost the rock-solid seat of Bermondsey -my home
manor -to Simon Hughes for the Liberals. This defeat -and the subsequent
humiliation of the 1983 general election -is often seen as the nadir of 90 years
of Labour's electoral performance. But when you compare it with the performance
of the Tories in Hartlepool, it doesn't look half so bad.

Riven by in-fighting and strangled by an outdated ideology Labour may well have
been, but at least at Bermondsey and at the general election there was a sort of
excuse. The sitting Conservative government had recently rescued its parlous
opinion poll standings with a popular war against Argentina.

The overwhelming majority of the country backed that war; Labour -as with the
Tories now -gave equivocal support.

Right now, though, the sitting government is despised, mistrusted and even hated
for having prosecuted an unnecessary and unjust war against Iraq. And yet the
official opposition still contrives to come fourth in a by- election in a seat
which, in the mid-1950s, it held with comfort.

Do you see now how truly the Conservative party is in danger of becoming
irrelevant? The idiosyncratic way in which we tot up the votes will stop it
being obliterated next year but why, in the end, would you bother to vote
Conservative except out of tribal loyalty -what would be the point?

This is, after all, the party that is clueless in the pursuit of a new
constituency and confused about what constitutes its traditional constituency.
For example: in Europe's most urbanised society it proclaims, unashamedly, that
it is the guardian of that half-forgotten and half mythical concept, the
"countryside".

Not, you will note, the party of people who live in the countryside, which would
be marginal enough, but that minuscule tranche who claim to be represented by
the Countryside Alliance -the toffs and the tiny tribe of socially impoverished
wannabe toff manques represented by the likes of Otis Ferry.

Here are a few salient facts: 99% of people living in the countryside have
nothing to do with foxhunting and 55% of them are opposed to it. Yet the
Conservative party imagines that it is addressing middle England and is
therefore harnessing electoral support by its rare libertarian defence of this
cruel, outdated and politically irrelevant pastime.

It rails against the notion of "Islington man", not realising that, derided in
the media though it may be, the sociological status of Islington man is
something to which a lot of the people in Britain -and not just those who live
in London - consciously or subconsciously aspire.

Sophisticated, upwardly mobile, multicultural, tolerant, urbane: Islington man
is the present equivalent of those people whom Labour, in 1983, derided for
wishing to buy their own council homes or yearning to take home a greater
proportion of their earned income. And they are as likely to live in Islip,
Northamptonshire, as in Islington, N1.

Labour's old loathing of the middle classes -a group of people it later came
wholeheartedly to represent -is perfectly reflected these days in Tory hatred of
so-called "metropolitan man".

You have to sympathise to a degree. When the Tories' target voters are asked
what the party should do to win their votes 50% say cut taxes. And the other 50%
say leave taxes as they are and invest in the public services. So the party
implies it intends to do a little of both and nobody really believes it.

Things cannot only get better. Sometimes they can only get worse. The Tories are
losing the angry Eurosceptic vote in the shires to UKIP, as has happened
recently in Dorset and Devon. And they are losing votes in the inner-city
hellholes to the Liberal Democrats. In the white-flight mill towns of northwest
England they are losing votes to the British National party. Their failure to
oppose the war against Iraq loses them still more votes, once again to the Lib
Dems.

It is hard to see where new Tory votes might come from. Again, the question: why
would you vote Conservative? What agglomeration of ideas, what picture, forms in
your mind when you consider putting your cross beside the party of Michael
Howard -or in three years' time David Davis?

They have been so cowed by defeat that the Tories have lost their purpose. They
remain locked in early spring 1983. Tears for fears indeed.

rod.liddle@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

Bad politics

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 696 words


When James Callaghan grabbed the Labour leadership in 1976 -the only time the
party has elected a new leader while in office -he had the advantage of inside
information. He had heard whispers of Harold Wilson's intention to step down and
he was ready. When it comes to scrambling to the top of the greasy pole, victory
goes to those who have their kit in order. Margaret Thatcher won the Tory
leadership by throwing her hat in the ring while senior colleagues vacillated
and after Edward Heath had told her, "You'll lose." Tony Blair, according to one
legend, became Labour leader in 1994 only because Gordon Brown was too busy
mourning the death of his friend John Smith.

Nobody in the Labour party, least of all the chancellor, can complain that they
have not been given enough notice this time. One of Mr Blair's predecessors,
Michael Foot, put his name to a manifesto that was dubbed the longest suicide
note in history. On Thursday the prime minister signalled the longest goodbye in
parliamentary history. What will Mr Blair's declaration -to serve a full third
term but not a fourth -mean in practice? That even the prime minister's
timescale is a source of intense debate shows how reluctant we are to take the
words of politicians at face value. For those in Mr Brown's camp a full third
term means no more than two years after the election. Anything less and he would
have insufficient time to settle into the job. For Mr Blair's inner circle a
full third term means precisely that. The model adopted by Jose Maria Aznar, the
former Spanish prime minister, is the one they want to follow. He announced in
advance his intention to step down, a new leader was elected a few months before
the election and Mr Aznar continued to lead his country up to polling day and
his surprise defeat.

Mr Blair has also offered the possibility of a very different kind of government
for the next few years. Thus, say his acolytes, by freeing himself from the
burden of going "on and on" the prime minister will show himself to be a lot
bolder. That will mean pushing through a "choice agenda" and reform of the
public services against the chancellor's objections. It could also mean, say
pro-Europeans, that Mr Blair shows a new determination to win a sceptical
British public over on the European Union constitution and the single currency.

The prime minister's advisers have, however, predicted boldness before. We were
told the aftermath of the Iraq war would bring a changed prime minister. Instead
Mr Blair has been bogged down. A more plausible version of the next few years is
that the prime minister is seen increasingly as a lame-duck leader presiding
over a cabinet frozen by the fear of doing anything unpopular in case it hampers
their own leadership ambitions. Meanwhile, the in-fighting, jostling, poisonous
briefings and rival meetings in new Labour smoke-free rooms will make the past
few years seem like a model of collective government. And the country's problems
will remain untackled.

Almost forgotten in this is the Tory party. The assumption of Mr Blair's "third
term and no more" strategy is that Labour will sail into power at the next
election. After the Tories' humiliating fourth place in Hartlepool, it is a
realistic assumption. The Tories are flatlining in the polls, providing the
prime minister with the luxury of an opposition that has made no progress since
1997.

Each successive Tory leader Mr Blair has faced -he is now on his fourth appears
driven by the limited ambition of not leaving things in a worst state than when
they took over.

Thus Michael Howard, who this week faces his first party conference as leader,
has tried to grab headlines with populist announcements while positioning most
of his policies close to those of Labour. It is not working. An ICM poll today
shows that voters still think the Tories are out of touch. Even though Labour is
unpopular, more people will still vote for it than for the lacklustre Tories. Mr
Howard needs to be bolder, more coherent, or else his party will be devoured by
the snapping jaws of the Lib Dems and UKIP. And then Mr Blair and his successors
will go on and on.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leading Article

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

Reckless Blair's given Brown a stark choice: rebel or retire

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 19

LENGTH: 1373 words


Every government has its wrecker, generally a young male minister who is
intensely ambitious and puts his personal interests ahead of his party's,
blowing apart the fragile compromises that are needed to make any party work.
The egotistical vandal in this Labour government occupies 10 Downing Street.

Last week journalists reported from Brighton on the hostile briefings from the
Brown and Blair camps. But in truth the story from Brighton was that the
chancellor and prime minister had given speeches that were wholly consistent
with each other and each had adroitly avoided the areas of disagreement. Labour
was headed towards the election with a strong team and strong themes.

On Thursday night Tony Blair decided to blow Labour apart. His announcement that
he intends to remain in office for another full term serves to tell Gordon Brown
that the prime minister is determined to stop the chancellor succeeding to his
job.

If it is true that Blair has at least twice told Brown that he would step aside
to make way for him then it would be difficult to measure the chancellor's sense
of betrayal now. Even if you were of a less prickly disposition than Brown
notoriously is, you could legitimately feel that you had been the victim of an
epic treachery, worthy of a Shakespeare play.

In five years Brown will still be young enough to be chosen as prime minister.
But the world will have moved on in that time. It already has in the hours since
Blair dropped his bombshell. Already Brown has ceased to be the leader-elect.
The field is wide open: almost anyone in the government can imagine being ready
for Downing Street in five years.

While on the face of it Blair's announcement invites us to look towards the end
of his premiership (when, let it be said, he will have served almost as long
again as he has already) in fact we must now focus on the termination of Brown's
chancellorship.

It is impossible to imagine that he will occupy No11 for a dozen years.
Certainly no precedent would come close to it. It is almost inconceivable that
his patience could extend so far, especially while all around he will see lesser
men emerging as better bets for the succession. Brown's speech last week
confirmed him as a political colossus. What Blair now proposes is an assault on
his dignity.

Nor can Brown bide his time in any other office of state. It is the prime
minister, not the foreign secretary, who runs foreign policy and Brown could not
serve as Blair's vassal. In any case, Brown would be humiliated if he were seen
succeeding Jack Straw whom he rightly regards as a smaller political figure
(even if he now looks a good bet for the top job). That rules out the Home
Office, too.

At no department could Brown submit to negotiating his budget with the next
chancellor, a sensitivity that alone rules out any move except to the back
benches.

That provides a measure of the provocation offered by Blair to Brown. The prime
minister is not merely telling him that he will have to wait a little longer
than he had indicated to enter No10. He has also invited his party to engage in
a savage contest for the succession with the sole aim of thwarting Brown and has
indicated to his chancellor that so far from looking towards the premiership, he
should contemplate retirement from British politics.

This may be yet another monstrous error by Blair, to set alongside his
announcement earlier in the year of a referendum on the European constitution.
On the whole that is what I believe it to be. Like his previous idiocy it is the
sort of political trick that looks clever for 10 minutes.

In case you were worried that the prime minister might not remain long in the
job because of his heart condition, he distracts your attention by mildly
announcing that he intends to stay with us longer than Margaret Thatcher did. It
is probable that the "brilliance" of this device blinded him to the incendiary
consequences.

It is, however, worth at least considering that the prime minister was not at
all naive but rather that he deliberately intended to entrap Brown, enraging him
to a point where he would challenge Blair or quit or make a fatal mistake.

Any of those outcomes is now possible. Even Brown supporters who think that they
have cool heads will be thinking that Blair has made himself vulnerable with
this announcement. The prime minister scraped through the conference with his
mealy mouthed non-apology apology for going to war with Iraq on a false
prospectus. Few in the Labour party can have thought that that entitled him to
lead them for another half decade.

Blair's hubris reached extraordinary heights as he referred (with his usual
apparent modesty) to the need to be re-elected by the British people, without
remembering that electorates vote for an individual under presidential systems
but choose a majority party in a parliamentary democracy. Some will also hope
(such is the nastiness of politics) that a weakness in the prime minister's
heart may after all shorten his term no matter how strong his ambition to go on.

Maybe Brown could bring him down when the next crisis looms (ideally on Iraq).

Perhaps he could topple the prime minister by resigning. Conceivably he could
simultaneously denounce the Iraq policy and reveal some devastating secret about
how the war came about. But either attempt on the prime minister's political
life might end in ignominious failure for the chancellor. So maybe he will go on
dithering, which is probably what Blair most expects.

The prime minister is almost unbelievably reckless in taking these risks just as
Labour was cantering towards an election in a few months. It suggests that he is
desperate to achieve more of his agenda in a third term. It clearly indicates
that he sees little threat from the Conservatives.

Let us turn back the clock for a moment to before the detonation last Thursday
of Blair's thermonuclear political device. His speech at the conference
dovetailed with Brown's to send this clear message to the voters: "The Labour
government has made progress towards creating a fairer and more tolerant
society. But we are not satisfied. We want a third term to spread opportunities
to much larger numbers of people and we have specific policy ideas."

It is intelligible and seems credible. Its unspoken subtext is: "Even if you
feel betrayed by Blair on Iraq, you know that Labour is committed to social
justice and that matters to you in your daily life more than the war."

What are the equivalent Tory messages? You could challenge any number of
Conservative MPs to write down what the party stands for and they would be
stumped. Certainly no two of them would pen the same thing. Since November 22,
1990 (when Thatcher left Downing Street), Tories have been wailing that they do
not know what they stand for.

Michael Howard has rejected work on devising a theme in favour of a feverish
output of policies. There are dozens of them, but even his MPs would be hard put
to remember more than a few. Some of the health ideas are more free market than
Labour, while some of the education policies are to the left of Blair.

One thing at least is clear: the Tory party's recent moves have been to the
right.

As though Howard were working hand-in-glove with Blair's speech writers, his
appointment of John Redwood to the shadow cabinet and the announcement that cuts
to inheritance tax (still paid only by a minority) would be a Conservative
priority were timed to supply the prime minister with the best lines in his
oration to the party conference.

The real disaster of the Hartlepool by-election is not what happened on
Thursday, when the Tories came fourth to the UK Independence party, but what
will occur next. The Conservatives will shift to the right again (clearly
bringing back Redwood was not enough of a lurch), ceding more centre ground to
their opponents.

As the chancellor is humiliated and an egocentric prime minister leads the
Labour party into civil war, hope burns brightly in the breasts of a dozen
ambitious ministers inside and just outside the cabinet. But there is not a
flicker of it among the Conservatives.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 3, 2004

IT'S TIME TO KILL OFF THE TORIES, SAYS KILROY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 137 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk said the Tory Party is on the verge of death yesterday as he
called on the UK Independence Party to kill it off and change the face of
British politics. The Sunday Express columnist again said he would like to lead
the Eurosceptic party that pushed the Tories into fourth place at last week's
Hartlepool by-election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk told UKIP's annual conference in Bristol any sort of deal with
the Tories on Europe would be unacceptable. He added: "The Conservative Party is
dying, why would you want to give it the kiss of life? What we want to do is
kill and replace it. That is our destiny."

Mr Kilroy-Silk said he believed he could make a "big difference" as leader of
UKIP. But he said he would not contest the current leader Roger Knapman and
would wait for him to stand down.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              303 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 3, 2004

HOWARD: LABOUR FACE 4-YEAR BATTLE FOR TONY'S CROWN

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Tim Shipman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words


MICHAEL Howard last night attacked Tony Blair for condemning Britain to "years
of paralysis" by sparking a fouryear Labour leadership battle.

In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Express, the Tory leader warned that
ordinary people will suffer because ministers will be too busy to do what is
best for the country because they will be fighting among themselves for the
right to succeed Mr Blair.

He said: "The second Labour term has been paralysed as far as the domestic
agenda is concerned, by the rift between Blair and Brown, which has been a
faultline throughout the entire government.

"What Blair has said about his intentions means that a third term will be
paralysed by serial faction-fighting as everyone fights for their places in the
post-Blair order and puts their own interests before the interests of the
country. That is a recipe for even worse paralysis if Labour wins a third term.

"It's the British people who are going to suffer. We need a Government focused
on the problems facing the country, not on its own internal personal battles. I
have never seen anything remotely to compare with this."

Mr Blair's announcement that he was having heart surgery and plans to quit at
the end of the next Parliament came as the Tories were humiliated in the
Hartlepool by-election.

Mr Howard, who is in Bournemouth ahead of the Tory party conference this week,
admitted that their fourth place behind the UK Independence Party was
"disappointing" but insisted tactical voting in by-elections was "no prediction"
for the general election.

This week he will lay out a "timetable for action" for the first days, weeks,
months and even hours of a Conservative government.

New internal polls have given some hope for the Tories, who are now four points
ahead of Labour in the 130 most-marginal Labour seats, compared with 11 per cent
behind at the last general election. On that showing the Tories could expect to
pick up 103 seats, leaving Britain with a hung parliament.

But Mr Howard will also have to paper over damaging splits threatening to open
up as Tories debate how far the party should move to the right on taxation and
Europe.

Senior sources say that right-wingers led by party chairman Dr Liam Fox and
Shadow Home Secretary David Davis are pushing for a more explicit pledge to cut
tax.

In a new book that he will be promoting at the conference, John Redwood - who
has just been brought back into the shadow cabinet - argues that the top rate of
income tax should be slashed to 30 per cent.

Mr Howard, his shadow Chancellor Oliver Letwin and co-chairman Charles Saatchi
are resisting explicit pledges. Mr Howard yesterday said the Tories would offer
"targeted tax cuts", probably on inheritance tax and stamp duty, which have been
singled out as unfair.

He said he would hold a referendum early next year, which would give Britain a
way to kill off the new Brussels constitution.

Mr Howard vowed: "I will campaign for a No vote. I am confident we will get a No
vote.

I will then go to the EU with a double mandate - a general election mandate and
a referendum mandate. I would say we are against the constitution. The
constitution is dead."

Labour's general election co-ordinator Alan Milburn said: "Michael Howard is a
desperate man. The disaster of the Tories' fourth place in Hartlepool will hang
like a shadow over this conference. That desperation is forcing them to promise
tax cuts they cannot afford, based on savings they cannot find and spending cuts
they dare not name."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              304 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 3, 2004

KENNEDY WRITES OFF THE TORIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 78 words


LIB Dem leader Charles Kennedy yesterday dismissed the resurgent Conservatives
and insisted he could challenge for power.

He told conference delegates the Tories were "a busted flush" and were now
irrelevant to voters.

Mr Kennedy said: "The Conservative Party can't be ignored completely, although
they are coming close to it.

We are the credible challenger to Labour.

"The Conservative party is no longer a credible challenger even to UKIP."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              305 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 03, 2004, Sunday

A life jacket for Howard

SECTION: Features; Comment; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1126 words

After the Conservative Party's dismal result in the Hartlepool by-election on
Thursday, it may come as a surprise that Michael Howard is behaving like a man
whose spirits have been raised. But the ignominy for the Tories of finishing
behind the UK Independence Party in a seat where they had previously been second
to Labour has been eclipsed by Tony Blair's unprecedented announcement last week
that he hopes to serve as Prime Minister for a "full" third term - and then to
stand down. The political landscape has been transformed almost as much for the
Tories as for the Labour Party.

Mr Howard's conspicuous achievement since he became Conservative leader last
November has been to unite a party that had become all but unleadable. Between
the fall of Margaret Thatcher in 1990 and the sacking by MPs of Iain Duncan
Smith 13 years later, the Tory party was paralysed by attacks on the incumbent
leader and attempts to supplant him. Under Mr Howard, this pathological practice
has all but stopped. As the general election approaches, the opinion polls offer
scant comfort, and MPs lose their nerve, there is a risk that the old
faction-fighting and positioning of prospective leadership candidates will
resume.

This would be a disastrous error for the Tories. Mr Blair's announcement - that
there will definitely be a Labour leadership contest before the end of the next
Parliament - means that the governing party will henceforth be gripped by
precisely the problem that used to give the Conservatives so much difficulty. In
the months and years ahead, as a direct consequence of Mr Blair's declaration
last week, Labour will be riven by speculation and feuding.

It is complete nonsense, of course, that the Prime Minister will, if re-elected,
serve out a full term. If nothing else, he will be subject to intense internal
pressure to give his successor as leader a reasonable period of time to prepare
for the general election after next. More probably, the referendum on the EU
constitution - win or lose - would provide him with a logical moment at which to
bow out. What is certain is that the trade union movement, whose taming was so
important to Mr Blair's original electoral appeal, will revert to its
traditional role as Labour's puppetmaster.

It is often forgotten that John Smith's hard-fought battle to introduce the
principle of one-member-one-vote to his party's decision-making did not extend
to leadership contests, in which the unions retain a third of the electoral
power. Small wonder that Gordon Brown - a politician who is much less Left-wing
than he sometimes allows himself to be seen - has devoted so much time in the
past decade to wooing the brothers. He knows, as his prospective rivals for the
Labour leadership will quickly realise, that Mr Blair's successor will be the
candidate who best stitches up the union vote. It follows that - if Labour wins
the general election - the governance of the country will be profoundly and
adversely affected for the next few years by the need for senior Cabinet
ministers who wish to enter the leadership race to ingratiate themselves with
the unions.

Mr Howard will doubtless point this out when he addresses his party in
Bournemouth on Tuesday and Thursday. He has good reason to believe that, just
when it seemed that he was being swept away by the inexorable currents of the
electoral tide, he has unexpectedly been thrown a life jacket by Mr Blair. In
private, furthermore, Cabinet ministers concede that his proposals to cut
inheritance tax and to introduce immigration quotas have considerable potential
appeal to the voters. But, as senior Tories concede no less readily, their
message is not getting through to the public.

The Tory leader is right, for example, that a vote for the UKIP in a general
election is a wasted vote, since it makes it more, rather than less, likely that
a Euro-integrationist Labour Government (committed in principle to British
membership of the euro and in practice to the new EU constitution) will be
returned to office. It is true, furthermore, that Mr Howard's policy on the EU -
particularly his promise to renegotiate the common fisheries policy - is tougher
even than that followed by William Hague at the last general election. It would
be a travesty if disgruntled Conservatives cast their vote for a party which
seems to have become a dumping ground for ex-Tories ruined by sexual misconduct
or perjury.

Nonetheless, it is for Mr Howard to ensure that this does not happen. If the
voters do not know what the Tories stand for, they may as well vote for the
designedly vacuous Liberal Democrats. In what will - for better or for worse -
be a quasi-presidential contest at the next general election, it is for the Tory
leader to lift his party from its present position where sound policies are not
penetrating the national consciousness. He is richly capable of accomplishing
this task, but only if he heeds the advice of Polonius: "This above all: to
thine own self be true."

Mr Howard, to his credit, has surrounded himself with a coterie of bright
advisers who have brought energy and professionalism to his leadership. However,
some of them - mesmerised by focus group findings - are urging him to adopt a
less adversarial tone at the conference and to emphasise the Tory party's
niceness rather than its capacity to attack Mr Blair with the traditional
weapons of the politician's armoury.

The Tory leader is undoubtedly a charming man in private but his political style
is, and has always been, unrepentantly robust. He has clear, powerful
Conservative beliefs that are rooted in the party's fundamental principles
rather than the narrow agenda of any Tory faction. He believes in personal
freedom, low taxation, national independence and unfettered enterprise. On law
and order - undoubtedly one of the most important issues at the next election -
he can claim, without immodesty, to have been the most successful home secretary
since the war. His instincts are firm: he takes on his political opponents and
seeks to demolish their arguments with all the intellectual aggression of a
trial lawyer.

Mr Howard can and should be reasoned as he makes his case this week. But he
should not restrain his natural instincts: the electorate has a keen nose for
artifice, and will scent deception if the Tory leader pretends to be something
he is not. The best chance the Conservative Party has of getting its message
across is for its leader to play to his strengths. In what will almost certainly
be the last Tory conference before the general election, the party should
exploit what assets it has, rather than conceal them in panic and confusion. To
adapt the maxim of Ronald Reagan's advisers: let Howard be Howard.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              306 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 03, 2004, Sunday

ROBERT KILROY-SILK STAKES CLAIM TO LEADERSHIP OF UKIP

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: News; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 626 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK made his long-expected bid for the leadership of the UK
Independence Party yesterday.

In a sleight of hand, however, the former chat show host said that he would not
challenge the present leader, Roger Knapman, for the position. Instead, he said,
he intended to wait for him to retire.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said that he believed he could make a "big difference" as leader
of UKIP. He also revealed that he intended to contest a Midlands seat in the
general election, possibly the Ashfield, Notts, constituency of Geoff Hoon, the
Defence Secretary.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's bid will increase the pressure on the Conservatives following
their fourth place drubbing at UKIP's hands in last week's Hartlepool
by-election.

The anti-European party cast a further shadow over the Conservatives, whose
annual conference starts in Bournemouth tomorrow, by voting to contest every
seat in the general election. Responding to the threat, John Redwood, the Tory
spokesman on deregulation, yesterday made the most explicit bid yet to woo back
UKIP voters to the Conservatives by declaring that he shared their views.

Interviewed by The Sunday Telegraph, Mr Redwood said that the Tories and UKIP
"agreed about a great
deal" and that he understood why anti-Europeans were hurting.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, the East Midlands MEP, insisted that there would be no deal
between UKIP party and sitting Tory MPs, in a declaration of intent which could
seriously split the Conservative vote.

He told UKIP's annual conference in Bristol: "The Tory party is dying. Why would
you want to give it the kiss of life. What we have to do is kill it."

After he spoke, members overwhelmingly rejected a motion not to stand against
MPs who were against the European Union.

Mr Redwood urged UKIP voters to return to the fold yesterday, assuring them that
the Tories shared many of their views.

He also rejected the idea of a deal with UKIP, but struck a conciliatory tone.
He said: "UKIP voters are hurting. They have far more Brussels government than
they want. But they can either make a lame protest which will guarantee a
federalist government or they can join us and make a difference."

He said UKIP voters were "intelligent people who cared desperately about
democracy in Britain". He urged them: "Come the general election the only
sensible course that you and I can follow is to vote Conservative."

While UKIP members have backed in principle the idea of fielding candidates in
all seats, it will in now have to decide which constituencies it can
realistically afford to fight.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "It is a matter for the party to decide where they stand.
We have got to put resources where they are most needed." The party is most
likely to pick fights in seats where the maximum publicity can be gained,
including ones where a sitting Tory MP has a slim majority.

Officials said it was almost certain to field a candidate against Oliver Letwin,
the shadow chancellor, who has a majority of just 1,414 in West Dorset.

Mr Redwood urged disaffected Tories to return to the fold, saying: "Of course I
understand their worry about the advance of Brussels power, and I share their
view that the [single] currency is not right for Britain.

"I share their view that the constitution is not right for Britain. I share
their view that we don't want a foreign policy directed by a European foreign
affairs minister. I share their view that we don't want a European public
prosecutor. I share their view that fishing would be better under British
control. We agree about a great deal."

In his conference speech tomorrow Mr Redwood will announce a deregulation bill
to ensure new regulations are enshrined for a short period, possibly two years,
and are then reviewed.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              307 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 03, 2004, Sunday

'I've been dying to meet you lot . . . but you look pretty normal to me' A
well-tanned Robert Kilroy-Silk was the glowing focus of the 'celebration'
conference. Jenny McCartney joined an exuberant UKIP crowd in Bristol

BYLINE: By JENNY MCCARTNEY

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 714 words

THE GLOSSY brochure carried by delegates at the United Kingdom Independence
Party's conference yesterday bore a perky title to make Michael Howard's heart
sink: "The Celebration Conference".

From the stage in Bristol's Colston Hall a series of speakers joyfully reheated
the trouncing of the Tories into fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election last
week. Then, lest anyone forget the party's unprecedented success at the European
elections last June, a lone bagpiper led 11 of the UKIP's Euro-MPs - billed as
"our boys from Brussels" - up onto the conference stage.

The Euro-MPs were all men who could fairly be described as middle-aged, but the
well-tanned Robert Kilroy-Silk, the sacked BBC chat show host and now Euro-MP
for the East Midlands, glinted from their number like a freshly minted penny.
Roger Knapman MEP is the UKIP leader, a a bluff, portly former Tory whip, but Mr
Kilroy-Silk finally declared yesterday that he wants to take over the job which
many perceive is his in practice already.

Chris Leas, a cheery UKIP councillor from South Gloucestershire, was a warm-up
speaker. Mr Leas said he had been wrongly seized by the Spanish police in the
Costa del Sol and held in jail for 50 weeks on suspicion of being "an
international drugs baron". It wasn't clear whether Mr Leas blamed the Spanish
police for flattening both his business career and his holiday plans, or the
"Brussels juggernaut" of which he spoke.

Tory and Labour politicians, rattled by UKIP's recent electoral successes, are
wont to depict UKIP as a bunch of weirdos, obsessing over imaginary
Euro-conspiracies. The UKIP frontmen have realised this, and are fighting back
with a new strategy which might well be called "Reclaim the Crank".

Nigel Farage MEP, jovially condemned Michael Howard for writing off UKIP as
being "cranks, weirdos, eccentrics and - joy of joys - gadflies." As a result,
said Mr Farage, the UKIPs had gamely formed a Gadfly Club in Brussels. "We are
not anti-European in any way," he said, to loud cheers from the hall. Mr Farage
called for "an amicable divorce from a political European Union, and its
replacement by a genuine free trade agreement which is what we thought we'd
signed in the first place". The 1,100-strong audience roared along with him,
evidently familiar with the ending.

In recent months, UKIP has attracted fresh supporters ranging from Joan Collins
to Dick Morris, the slick American strategist who helped Bill Clinton to the
White House. "Dick advised us to use the word 'No' in our campaigning," said Mr
Farage, approvingly.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, however, has been rather cutting about Mr Morris - who is
chiefly regarded as Mr Knapman's adviser - and was saying of him yesterday that
"I don't need an intermediary to stand between me and the British electorate".

When Mr Kilroy-Silk bounded up on stage, he instantly brandished the crank baton
with pride. "I've been dying to meet you lot," he said. "I've never known what a
load of gadflies, cranks and extremists would look like." Pause. "You look
pretty normal to me." Mr Kilroy-Silk paid expert obeisance to the party's
triumphs. He lightly massaged its fears.

He called for "strict limits" on immigration and chastised the Blair Government
for mislaying hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers somewhere in a vast and
leaking system. He sketched a vision of a decaying, collapsing Blairite Britain
in which the elderly go malnourished while 50 million British pounds a day are
creamed off by Brussels.

Mr Kilroy-Silk spoke without glancing at notes, hands fluttering towards the
lights as honey and gunpowder fought for dominance in his well-polished larynx.

Then he lowered his voice even further, until it became so soft and urgent that
you could have heard a pounds 5 note drop.

He warned against any Faustian electoral pacts with Eurosceptics from other
parties at the next general election.

"The Conservative Party is dying," he said. "Why would you want to give it the
kiss of life? What we have to do is kill it."

And one might very well forgive Mr Howard, if at the sound of that murderous,
throaty "kill it" - and the news that, later, the UKIP conference voted
overwhelmingly to field candidates in every constituency - he experienced a
distinct prickle of unease.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              308 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 03, 2004, Sunday

'UKIP voters can make a lame protest or join us' John Redwood has clearly been
given a brief to woo back disillusioned Tories whose heads have been turned by
UKIP. As MELISSA KITE reports, he is throwing himself into the task

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Focus; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1281 words

It was the morning after the Conservatives' worst by-election result in recent
memory, but inside John Redwood's office the Champagne corks were popping. As he
launched a new book, the Tory spokesman on deregulation was not going to let a
drubbing in Hartlepool put a dampener on things.

The former Welsh Secretary, who challenged John Major, was sacked by William
Hague and was recently restored to the front line by Michael Howard, was the
perfect host as he served his guests with glasses of bucks fizz. The message was
clear: if you want self-criticism, in-fighting or navel-gazing, you have come to
the wrong place.

But had he seriously woken up that morning thinking that being beaten into
fourth place by the UK Independence Party was nothing to worry about? The
answer, in short, was yes. "Hartlepool doesn't matter," he said. "By-elections
are by-elections. They don't tell you what will happen in a general election.
You won't find a single opinion pollster changing his polls on the basis of
Hartlepool."

Mr Redwood spares no energy, however, in urging disaffected Tories to return to
the fold. "UKIP voters are hurting. They have far more Brussels government than
they want. But they can either make a lame protest, which will guarantee a
federalist government, or they can join us and make a difference. Of course I
understand their worry about the advance of Brussels power, and I share their
view that the currency is not right for Britain. I share their view that the
constitution is not right for Britain. I share their view that we don't want a
foreign policy directed by a European foreign affairs minister. I share their
view that we don't want a European public prosecutor. I share their view that
fishing would be better under British control. We agree about a great deal.

"What I don't agree with is their tactics of setting up a single-issue party and
saying they want automatic unilateral withdrawal, and that of course is
dishonest because they can't get elected and they won't do it and they would
have to negotiate anyway."

Mr Redwood remained in buoyant mood as we walked to the BBC's Millbank studios
for an interview on The World At One. However, things took a tricky turn when he
was kept waiting for 15 minutes to go on air. His researcher and girlfriend,
Nikki Page, a former Vogue model, businesswoman and Tory mayoral candidate,
grinned broadly as she remarked that this was not a good idea on the part of the
programme-makers.

She was right. A few seconds into the interview, Mr Redwood exploded and began
to shout down the interviewer, Nick Clarke. It was spirited stuff for a man
maligned for his supposed lack of emotion. As soon as it finished, Mr Redwood
bounced out of the studio, all smiles. "Shall we get some lunch?"

Over pasta with anchovies, he talked in depth about the challenge from UKIP. In
a marked departure from the shrill tone of Mr Howard earlier this year when he
denounced the party as "gadflies", Mr Redwood sounded a conciliatory note. He
said UKIP voters were "intelligent people who care desperately about democracy
in Britain". He urged them: "Come the general election, the only sensible course
that you and I can follow is to vote Conservative."

The Tories wanted to deal with their worries, Mr Redwood said. "We will get rid
of the threat of losing the pound and repatriate important issues that ought to
be settled here."

A future Conservative government would take back fishing policy, if necessary by
legislating unilaterally to do so, together with other areas. "We have already
stated we need more control over our overseas aid distribution, more control
over social matters."

Mr Redwood, an arch Eurosceptic, is clearly adept at wooing disillusioned Tories
whose heads have been turned, and he is throwing himself into the task. But his
appointment is seen by some as a straightforward lurch to the Right.

He claimed to be baffled by this. "It's complete nonsense," he said. "I have
always been a moderniser. In a way I'm the original moderniser, telling the
Conservative Party that we needed to change and re-establish contact with the
electorate in the 1990s. I live my politics in the present and the future. I
don't want to live in the past and I don't want to fight old battles.

"They see me as a Right-wing figure because they falsely identify the wish to
have less European government with the Right wing. It is used as a term of abuse
to imply that I have a set of attitudes that are rather harsh. I reject that
completely."

Being called a Right-winger is sometimes the least of Mr Redwood's worries. The
tabloids have always preferred more abusive terms. "Vulcan beamed back by
Tories", was
the way the Daily Record portrayed his return.

"It is not pleasant," he said. "I don't enjoy it, but I have learned to regard
it as my campaign medals. I seem to get more than my fair share of personal
abuse. It is not the image my friends have of me. It is certainly not the image
I have of myself. I think I would have jumped off a cliff by now if that was my
image of myself."

Mr Redwood insisted that the party had come out of a period of divisions and
infighting. "There really aren't now two organised teams kicking each other to
pieces. We are fighting the election to win and there is no time for people to
mess around discussing what might happen if we don't. It's shoulders to the
wheel to win the election."

Does the former leadership challenger still have ambitions of his own? "I'm not
trying to become leader. I'm a full supporter of Michael Howard. I want him to
be the next prime minister and I'm devoting my energies to that. If I had
leadership ambitions I would have stood in 2001, and I might have stood against
Michael when he took it on, which I didn't do."

He added: "There really isn't a great ideological row going on in the Tory Party
any more. There was a really good row on Europe for a number of years which you
all spotted and wrote about copiously.

"We don't sit round the same table at dinner time, winding each other up the way
we used to. It's a much happier ship."

He elaborates on just how unhappy the ship was under the leadership of Iain
Duncan Smith in his new book, Singing the Blues. Witheringly, he says that the
two policies IDS will be remembered for are increasing the state pension and
scrapping tuition fees - "the two policies which provide the most difficult
challenge for his successor".

He complains that while Mr Duncan Smith might have been a tax-cutter by
instinct, "during those two years there was no firm, positive statement by how
much taxes would be reduced".

When it was pointed out that the same could be said, so far, of Mr Howard, he
replied quickly: "I would say: watch this space. Labour taxes too much. We need
lower taxes. People don't want false or idle promises from politicians. You need
to do a great deal of work first before offering specific tax cuts. That work is
well under way.

"It is desperately important that the Conservative Party only promises what it
can deliver. People are sick and tired of politicians misleading them over
taxation. But we are already firmly committed as a party which believes that
Labour's 66 tax rises were undesirable and that the money raised has been
wasted, and that a Conservative government should spend less and tax less."

When asked to elaborate on the idea in his book for a cut of 10 per cent off the
top rate of tax, and 2 per cent off the basic rate, he was inscrutable. But he
could not resist adding, with a laugh: "I'm not allowed a private view any more
in public. I'm allowed a private view in private." Who says this man does not
have a sense of fun?

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              309 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 03, 2004, Sunday

The longest goodbye The good news for Gordon Brown is that the Prime Minister is
standing down. The bad news is that it probably won't be until 2008. After Tony
Blair announced his resignation years in advance, PATRICK HENNESSY and MELISSA
KITE report on the intrigue among his rivals - as the Tories seize this
unexpected opportunity

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY AND MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Focus; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2516 words

Gordon Brown had every reason to feel pleased with himself when his plane
touched down at 8.30pm on Thursday at Washington's Dulles Airport on the way to
an International Monetary Fund meeting. His keynote speech at Labour's
conference in Brighton had been praised widely, he had successfully insisted
that Labour's economic record should be at the centre of the party's election
campaign and he had won the early rounds of his fight against his new Cabinet
rival, Alan Milburn.

His mood changed abruptly, however, as he switched his triband mobile telephone
over to a US network and the urgent messages flooded in from his senior aides.
It's easy to imagine the conversation that followed. "Gordon? The good news is
that Tony's said he's standing down as PM. The bad news is that it's not until
2008"

The Prime Minister's unprecedented decision to timetable the last years of his
premiership (God and the electorate willing) was that rare thing in politics, a
genuinely unexpected event which left the Westminster terrain looking quite a
different place.

Its primary purpose was to use Mr Blair's heart operation as a pretext to map
out his political and personal future in much greater detail than the disclosure
of the hospital appointment strictly required. The political editors of the BBC,
ITN and Sky News were summoned to Number 10 unexpectedly to be told not only
that Mr Blair was about to have an operation on his heart, but that he wanted to
serve a full third term - and then step down. There would, officially, be no
fourth Blair term.

A leadership election, Labour's first for well over a decade, would be held
before the end of the next Parliament - probably, though not definitely, in
2008. As the Prime Minister gave the first official confirmation that he had
made plans to stand down - after a summer of febrile speculation about his
intentions - his senior aides confirmed rumours that he and his wife, Cherie,
had bought a pounds 3.6 million five-bedroom house in Connaught Square in
Central London, in preparation for giving up the keys of 10 Downing Street.

The avowed aim of the Prime Minister's strategists was to "close down" the
increasingly common claim that Mr Blair would fight next summer's expected
election and then step down, almost certainly in favour of Mr Brown, a year or
so later. The interviews would also serve, No 10 officials hoped, to show that
the Prime Minister was fighting fit despite his heart trouble, and was braced to
challenge and even surpass Margaret Thatcher's modern-day record of 11 years'
tenure at No 10. At the same time, the endless speculation about him going "on
and on and on", they believed, would be quashed once and for all.

The actual effect of Mr Blair's comments was quite different. Rather than
damping down speculation about the succession, it electrified the Labour Party,
and fired the starting gun for what may well turn out to be the longest
leadership election in political history. Would Mr Brown, who will be 57 in
2008, be too old to take over the reins? Who would join the race to succeed Mr
Blair, and when? Was it, in any case, realistic of Mr Blair, with all his
problems over Iraq and declining trust, to assume that he could see out a third
term? Might he, in fact, face a direct challenge, possibly from Mr Brown, at
Labour's conference next year?

One of the Prime Minister's senior officials exploded in anger when he saw a
"beauty parade" of supposed contenders on Sky TV on Friday morning. "They were
all there," he said. "There was a picture of Jack Straw, a picture of David
Blunkett, one of Charles Clarke, Alan Milburn, John Reid By the time they got to
the so-called second rank of candidates like Douglas Alexander, I reckon
everybody watching had either turned over to BBC News 24 or gone for a piss."

The official's fury sprang from a deeper frustration - that the media's instant
concentration on the Labour succession suggested that the Government was taking
its re-election for granted. "We cannot be seen, either as a government, or a
political party, to be complacent, arrogant, or less than committed," he said.
"It is a recipe for disaster." Though himself one of the tiny group of senior
advisers to have masterminded the secret plan for Mr Blair to speak out on
Thursday night, the official admitted ruefully that the short-term consequence
of the tactic had been a "big downside".

Within hours, camps were being formed. In particular, supporters of Mr Brown,
with skills honed during many phoney leadership campaigns in the past, toured
the studios to sing the Chancellor's praises. There was "no alternative" to a
Brown succession, argued Brian Donohoe, the Cunninghame South MP. "He is head
and shoulders above anybody else." However, Tony Lloyd, the former Foreign
Office minister, warned Mr Brown of the dangers of being in the "wrong place" at
the right time. "Chance kicks in," Mr Lloyd added, articulating the views of
many observers who felt that Mr Blair's declaration left the field much too
clear to be of any comfort whatever to the Chancellor - a man whose desire for
the Labour leadership has burned so intensely for so long, and who has expected
a seamless succession to be his as of right.

Perhaps the worst omen for the Chancellor was that he had no idea Mr Blair was
about to make his announcement. According to those close to the Prime Minister,
Mr Blair told key members of his inner circle some weeks ago that he intended to
make a general statement about his intention to serve a full third term. These
included Mr Brown and John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister. However, Mr
Blair was vague on detail and, crucially, on timing. The fact that he was to
have heart surgery was not something that could reasonably be kept from the
public and some kind of announcement would have to be made, but there was no
compelling reason why this should be coupled with a statement of his wider
political intentions.

The Chancellor's more conspiracy-minded supporters muttered darkly about it
being "no coincidence" that the interviews were timed precisely to take place
when Mr Brown would be in the air. Their suspicions were reinforced when Mr
Milburn was said to be claiming privately that he had known about Mr Blair's
exact plans for some three weeks - a period dating back to his controversial
return to the Cabinet and his replacement of Mr Brown as Labour's head of
election strategy.

One Brown-supporting MP declared that, after Labour's conference, "those who
were claiming the election could be fought without mentioning the economy have
been routed. They have been exposed for the petty factionalists they are." He
mentioned no names, but it did not take a giant leap of imagination to know that
he had Mr Milburn, who toured Brighton with a camera crew in tow, in mind.

Most members of Mr Brown's entourage were guarded in their remarks about Mr
Milburn, following to the letter the Chancellor's pleas in his speech last
Monday for Labour unity. But other members of the Government were not so
cautious. A middle-ranking minister with no ties to either the Brown or the
Blair camp, said on Friday night: "Frankly I'm baffled by what Tony has done.
The question you have to ask yourself is, are we stronger or weaker as a party
because of the events of the past 24 hours? Are we more united, or more divided?
Obviously we are more divided, and if we are more divided, we are weaker. I
understand Tony felt he had to do this, but why now?"

Further evidence of Mr Blair's betrayal of Mr Brown, according to the
Chancellor's supporters, was provided by the revelations about the Blairs' new
home in Connaught Square. Downing Street officials confirmed that the Prime
Minister and his wife had started looking for a London property in the spring.
For the Brown camp, the existence of the Connaught Square house was the clearest
possible sign that Mr Blair had after all, at a dinner at Admiralty House with
the Chancellor and John Prescott in November 2003, made a promise to quit this
year and was ready to go through with his plan in the spring. By early June,
however, he had changed his mind in what Mr Brown's supporters saw as a
betrayal.

Mr Blair made his declaration at the end of a gruelling conference week during
which he had to prepare, at every step, for bad news about the fate of Ken
Bigley, the British hostage in Iraq. Only he, his family and a tiny inner circle
knew that he faced the additional pressure of surgery, albeit a minor and
routine operation. He was also said to have been irritated by the fresh bout of
"TB-GB" infighting sparked by the Chancellor's interview with The Sunday
Telegraph last week. In his remarks to this newspaper, Mr Brown laid bare his
hurt at having his election job given to Mr Milburn, and in which he declared
bleakly, when asked if his relations with Mr Blair were still warm and trusting:
"I've got my job to do and he's got his."

The Prime Minister's mood in Brighton appeared to veer from the introspective to
the febrile. During the riotous Northern Night celebrations following his speech
on Tuesday, he apologised for the fact that he and his wife would not be there
for the "wild night ahead", before uncharacteristically adding: "Don't worry,
Cherie, I'll show you a wild night!"

By the end of the week, Mr Blair had readied himself to tell the world about his
heart problems. Peter Mandelson, Britain's newly appointed EU commissioner and
the Prime Minister's close confidant, said in a newspaper article on Friday that
the decision to opt for surgery was taken "way back", although he did not
elaborate. The decision to make a wider-ranging statement on Mr Blair's plans
for the final act of his years in No 10 was taken as late as Thursday morning,
and had as its backdrop his strategists' confidence that Labour was going to
hold Mr Mandelson's old constituency of Hartlepool.

It is fair to claim that had Mr Blair not been convinced that Labour would win
in Hartlepool, fending off a strong campaign by the Liberal Democrats, he would
have settled for a low-key statement about his operation. As it was, Tom Watson,
a fast-rising government whip and trusted Labour by-election strategist, was
confidently predicting a clear victory in the seat as early as Tuesday - a
confidence widely echoed around Brighton by more senior figures, including Peter
Hain, the Commons Leader, and Margaret Hodge, the Minister for Children.

Between enthusiastic forkfuls of crispy whitebait at one of Brighton's
best-known seafood restaurants, a Cabinet minister who is one of Mr Blair's
closest confidants, opined sagely on the continuing Blair-Brown battle. "The
real decision," he claimed, "is not whether you want Blair or Brown, but whether
you want both of them or just one of them."

His comments are further evidence, as if any were needed, that the relationship
continues to dominate the inner workings of the Government. But Mr Blair has now
ensured that the end of this great partnership and poisonous rivalry is clearly
in sight. "Gordon has demanded a leaving date from Tony for years," one close
ally of the Prime Minister told The Sunday Telegraph. "Well, now he's got one."

As the Labour Party reeled from its leader's announcement, Tory activists,
preparing for their own conference in Bournemouth this week, contemplated the
transformed political landscape. The Conservatives know that they face a
mountainous challenge - how to haul the

Tories out of a slump that saw them crash from second to fourth place in
Hartlepool, and how to fight off the challenge from UKIP, whose certainties on
Europe nevertheless reflect the true position of large numbers of core
Conservative voters.

In a well-received and skillfully constructed acceptance speech at the Saatchi
Gallery when he was elected unopposed as Tory leader just over a year ago,
Michael Howard argued that his party must win back support from the centre
ground and that there should be "no no-go areas for a modern Conservative party"
on his watch. That was, however, not the message on Friday as his senior
officials tried to put a forlorn-looking gloss on the Hartlepool result. One
claimed that the party's internal polling and local council by-election results
were more important than the "passing events in the North-East of England". The
official claimed to have evidence that 70 per cent of UKIP voters had voted
tactically. "Hartlepool needs to be put in some degree of perspective," he said.

Privately, many Tory MPs were not so sanguine this weekend. One told The Sunday
Telegraph that he and other backbenchers were "s-scared". He added: "It's
horrible and horrifying. We should have come second. To come a poor third is bad
enough but to come fourth is absolutely dire. To be defeated by UKIP is
humiliating and you cannot get away from that. To say otherwise is just
ridiculous."

Those MPs who believe that the party is in urgent need of "modernisation"
complained that the leadership was now "hell-bent" on a Rightwards lurch to
secure the core vote and fight off UKIP. "The die is cast," one former supporter
of Michael Portillo said. "Michael Howard is no longer in listening mode."

Mr Howard will attempt to wrest back the agenda this week by promising that a
future Tory government will timetable all its policy goals, and that ministers
who do not deliver them will be held personally responsible. He will say:
"Conservatives don't promise the earth. Conservatives are down-to-earth people
with their feet on the ground, not their heads in the clouds."

Nobody is expecting a repeat of last year in Blackpool when the death throes of
Iain Duncan Smith's leadership became a macabre political tragedy played out in
public, and the conference turned into a gloomy beauty contest as prospective
candidates launched their bids for the succession. Nevertheless, if Mr Howard
cannot recover lost ground and leads the Tories to their third consecutive
landslide defeat, he will face crushing pressure to resign. To this end,
particular attention will be paid to the performances, on the platform, at
fringe events and in the smoke-filled bars, of possible future contenders,
including David Davis, the shadow home secretary, Andrew Lansley, the shadow
health secretary, Tim Yeo, the shadow environment and transport secretary,
George Osborne, the Treasury spokesman, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former foreign
secretary, John Redwood, the Tory spokesman on deregulation, and Damian Green,
the former education spokesman. All will be tempted to set down a marker for
after the general election - though there is little taste in Tory ranks for yet
another leadership race, of which there have been five since 1990 (including Mr
Howard's uncontested succession last year).

The Conservatives know that Mr Blair's announcement and the disunity it is
already sowing in the Labour Party present an extraordinary opportunity. The
question is whether they will seize it and build on the unity which Mr Howard
has established - or, panicking in the face of electoral defeat, revert
disastrously to type.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              310 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 3, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY ON SUNDAY: THIRD TERMS &CONDITIONS

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 448 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNCERTAINTY: Brown and Blair


TONY Blair's decision to serve a full third term in office but not a fourth will
have the benefits and the drawbacks of a US President's second term.

He will be released from the pressures of re-election and personal popularity.
But for at least half of that term he will be a lame duck as speculation about
his successor creates power manoeuvres among prime ministerial pretenders.

The biggest advantage is that Blair will finally be free of the glowering shadow
of Gordon Brown and his stranglehold over the economy - effectively everything
from crime and transport to education and health.

If Blair wins the next election with a half-way decent majority - say 80 seats
or more - Brown will be removed from No 11 and probably offered the Foreign
Office.

Blair has wanted to do that for a long time but can't, because he reckons Brown
would refuse, then go to the backbenches and split the party. That wouldn't
happen if the Chancellor was moved immediately after a substantial third
election victory.

The danger is that if Labour is elected with a majority below 40 the in-fighting
would start with a vengeance. A rejuvenated Brown would claim, justifiably, it
was only his management of the economy that got the party back at all.

Not much chance of Blair serving out a full third term then, as many of his
natural supporters, who came in on two landslides, would have disappeared from
Parliament.

The Hartlepool by-election tealeaves provided few clues to the outcome of a
general election. The Lib Dems did well, but not well enough for the political
earth to move. The Tories did so badly that they are still nowhere near being a
credible alternative government.

Nonetheless there is a cause for Labour anxiety. New Labour's support is broad,
but has fragile, shallow roots. Deep distrust in Blair, caused by the debacle
over Iraq, is widespread among his own supporters.

Mass abstentions at a general election, coupled with the increasing
sophistication of tactical voting, rural support that is fast disappearing, a
return to the Conservative banner by the loonies of UKIP, a strong showing by
the Lib Dems and the unpredictably of Iraq can all whittle away the big majority
Blair will need to head off internal feuding.

He must also have a strong coherent plan and a core philosophy to explain -
finally - that Third Way politics and Blairism aren't just a series of
soundbites and headline manipulation where you make it up as you go along. His
conference speech did little to dispel that suspicion

Perhaps it's just as well he's invested in that pounds 3.6million house. Like
Lady Thatcher, he might be moving in sooner than he thought.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              311 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 2, 2004

Tories on defensive after poll battering

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES; JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 235 words


THE Tories were in turmoil last night after their humiliating show in the
Hartlepool by-election.

The result, in which they were driven into fourth place by the UK Independence
Par ty, was '****ing awful' said defence spokesman Nicholas Soames.

'There is nothing we can do about it. We will take it on the chin,' he added. 'I
think we should follow Churchill's advice and KBO (Keep Buggering On).' The
by-election, triggered by Peter Mandelson's resignation to become an EU
commissioner, was a deep embarrassment for leader Michael Howard.

Labour's Iain Wright won, but his party's majority was slashed from more than
14,000 to just over 2,000, ahead of the LibDems.

The result will cast a shadow over the party conference, which opens in
Bournemouth on Monday.

A YouGov poll in the Economist will increase pressure on Mr Howard to shift
further to the Right to head off the UKIP threat.

It showed that more than a quarter of voters would be more likely to vote Tory
if he committed the party to pulling out of the EU.

And 44 per cent said they would do so if it took a harder line on immigration.
Some 50 per cent of voters said Mr Howard is the wrong man to lead the party.

The by-election result overshadowed yesterday's launch of Tory defence plans.
The party offered to spend an extra Pounds 2.7billion on defence over three
years. Troop levels would increase by 5,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              312 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 2, 2004

A question of political health

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 603 words


SO ends another extraordinary week in British politics.

It started with reports that the relationship between the Prime Minister and his
Chancellor was at crisis levels.

It ended with Mr Blair announcing that he was to have heart surgery, but that he
intended to stay in Downing Street for another full term a statement that
coincided with the revelation that he was buying a Pounds 3.6million house.

What to make of it all (not forgetting the disastrous showing by the Tories in
the Hartlepool byelection)? How lies the political landscape of Britain today?

The first thing that needs to be said is that this paper extends to Mr Blair
sincere, best wishes for a full and speedy recovery.

Only those close to them can understand the awesome strain ministers work under
and Mr Blair's load is greater than most.

His challenge now is that, if anything, that burden is going to get heavier.

Certainly the message from the lacklustre Labour conference in Brighton was not
a happy one.

On Iraq, solutions seem further away with Mr Blair more clearly than ever in
denial about his responsibility for creating the nightmare there.

We now have a Prime Minister who, by his own admission, no longer worries about
such inconvenient things as facts.

The only justification needed before going to war is that he believes he is
right.

It is simply not good enough. And until New Labour finds a way out of the Iraq
debacle that it helped create, the gap between the electorate and the elected
will become wider and more worrying.

And what of the domestic front? Here, there is precious little evidence of fresh
energy being brought to bear on reforming our ever more voracious public sector.

Mr Blair's ten pledges for the future contain little that is new. Instead he
produces rafts of statistics to 'prove' his Government's success.

But look at the reality . . . education standards are plunging. . . the abuse of
the second chamber remains a scandal immigration is out of control . . . and the
number of health service bureaucrats is growing at three times that of nurses or
doctors in our MRSA-ridden hospitals.

And what of the Labour Party itself? The fact is that after last week it is more
divided than ever. Mr Blair's statement that he will step down after another
term can only fuel months and years of internecine squabbling, boding ill for
this country's governance.

Only Labour can decide if a new leader will solve these divisions, extricate
Britain from Iraq and restore integrity to our democratic process.

In the meantime there is little doubt that Mr Blair's greatest asset is a weak
Tory party. Faced by such an incompetent and distrusted Government, the Tories
should be streets ahead in the opinion polls. Yet they were humiliated in
Hartlepool, finishing behind even UKIP.

But Conservatives should not lose heart at the result of one byelection in which
they were always going to do badly. They have many good policy ideas and have
identified areas of real concern to voters.

The message from Hartlepool is that they need to do much more to explain these
policies and not be afraid of real conviction politics.

Would thousands be voting for UKIP if Mr Howard had convinced people he could be
trusted not to give in to Brussels?

Rarely have voters felt so disenfranchised.

Most feel furious impotence at the way their hard-earned money is misspent and
the wishes of the majority are contemptuously ignored by an arrogant ruling
elite.

The Conservatives need to find the language and the leadership to connect with
these people.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              313 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 2, 2004

HOW DO YOU RATE THE TORY ELECTION RESULT IN HARTLEPOOL MR SOAMES? F*** ING AWFUL

BYLINE: by MACER HALL Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


SHOCKED Tories were reeling last night after the party slumped to a humiliating
fourth in the Hartlepool by-election.

Conservative heavyweight Nicholas Soames branded the result as "f***ing awful".

And it puts mounting pressure on leader Michael Howard who is struggling to turn
Labour unpopularity into support for the Tories. The result will be a huge
embarrassment for the leadership at next week's party conference in Bournemouth.

Insiders fear growing discontent could explode into open warfare.

The disastrous result came hours after Mr Howard had vowed that the
Conservatives' "dark days" were over.

In an upbeat interview he promised that next week's conference would show that -
unlike Labour - the Tories were "not a party of hot air".

But Mr Soames admitted: "There's nothing we can do but take it on the chin and
that's the end of it."

The election was triggered by ex-Cabinet minister Peter Mandelson's resignation
to become an EU commissioner.

Labour's Iain Wright won, although his party's vote plummeted to 12,752 and the
majority was slashed from more than 14,000 to just over 2,000.

Tory Jeremy Middleton trailed in fourth on 3,044 behind the UK Independence
Party's Stephen Allison on 3,193.

It was the first time since 1945 that a main opposition party has finished
outside the top three in a by-election.

But as if that wasn't bad enough, a new opinion poll has shown that half the
country believes the Tories would be better off with a new leader.

Mr Howard, interviewed on the ePolitix website, said: "We are now the biggest
party in local government, so I think the dark days are over. But we have to
work hard to convince people we are the alternative party they can trust."

Roger Knapman, of the UKIP, said last night:

"The result means we can approach the General Election with even more
confidence. I very much believe we can go on to win seats next year."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              314 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

Brussels feels east wind of change Former communist states are championing free
enterprise, says Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

BYLINE: By AMBROSE EVANS-PRITCHARD

SECTION: City; City Diary Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1171 words

THE Franco-German drive for EU-wide tax harmonisation finally crashed and burned
this week as the young Commission team of Jose Manuel Barroso swept into
Brussels, brimming with free-marketeers from Eastern Europe.

Can it really be the sweet moment when Brussels starts to face the reality of
China, India, and North American dynamism, in deeds as well as words, instead of
telling window cleaners how to hold a ladder, or farmers how long they may sit
on a tractor, or you and I whether we can work more than 48 hours a week?

Poised to take over a clutch of key economic posts - employment, budget, tax,
and regional aid - the children of Communism showed no taste for the corporatist
dogma once regarded as orthodoxy in the European Parliament.

Poland's Danuta Hubner told French MEPs at her confirmation hearing that she
would fight to defend her country's right to keep a 19pc rate of corporation
tax. (Estonia has zero, Latvia and Lithuania 15pc, Hungary 16pc).

The coup de grace was delivered by a German socialist, Gunther Verheugen,
reappointed to a second term, this time in charge of industry and enterprise.
Defying Berlin, he rubbished proposals for tax harmonisation put forward by the
French finance minister, Nicholas Sarkozy.

"I don't see dangers of relocation of industry from the old member states
because of the tax gap. Tax competition is actually helpful to a certain
extent," he said, echoing the now fashionable view in Brussels that lower taxes
discipline profligate governments and create wealth.

"Social dumping is a kind of myth," he added, almost with relish.

Barroso's self-declared mission is to lift the EU out of its spiral into
economic decline. A student Maoist in the fight against Portugal's Salazar
dictatorship, he converted to an Iberian form of Thatcherism long ago.

He will take personal charge of reform as a sort of EU economic tsar, but time
is against him, warns Christoph Leitl, president of Eurochambres in Brussels.
"Five more years of economic stagnation will alienate citizens, drive business
away, and further erode the public finances and capacity to act - throughout the
Union," he says.

The EU's legislative debacle will get worse before it gets better. A series of
time bombs with delayed fuses will detonate noisily over coming years as
legislation agreed as far back as the 1990s comes into force, or is tested in
the courts - from anti-discrimination codes to a raft of badly drafted recycling
edicts.

The European Court has only just begun to sink its teeth into the Charter of
Fundamental Rights, perhaps the secret weapon of Franco-German ambitions.

And needless to say, repealing EU law is harder - and much slower - than pulling
teeth.

Two thirds of the 25 new commissioners are either free-market liberals
(right-wing in European terms) or conservatives. The new "College" - which can
stop any draft law - will not be friendly to dirigiste ventures. Britain's Peter
Mandelson, nominally socialist, tips the balance further with his free trade
views. He is anathema to the French Left.

The Commission's three "Howitzer directorates" have all gone to Atlanticists:
Mandelson at Trade; Ireland's Charlie McCreevy at Single Market, and Holland's
"Iron Lady" Neelie Kroes at Competition.

These are Brussels fiefdoms that exercise raw power, taking decisions without
the need for approval by EU governments and MEPs.

The Competition Directorate single-handedly blocked the biggest merger in
history between General Electric and Honeywell, prompting GE's legendary boss
Jack Welch to ask: "Why the Hell was I never told this could happen?"

It has its own "Swat teams" that can launch dawn raids without a search warrant
and seize company archives. It fined Microsoft $613m for anti-trust violations,
more or less making up the law as it went along. Ideologically, it can shape the
European market system.

Not surprisingly, Kroes - a self-described "tough girl" - was subjected to a
parliamentary lynching by Left-wing MEPs on Tuesday, accusing her of every sin
from Swiss bank accounts to sleazy arms deals in the Persian Gulf and outright
bribes.

But her real offence was to have spent a career in the real world of corporate
finance, serving on 30 company boards. She called herself the victim of
"character murder".

It is not first time that a new Commission has arrived promising economic
revolution. Romano Prodi, a former LSE and Goldman Sachs man, delivered the same
pitch in 1999, and for a brief moment it looked as if the Lisbon Agenda of
revitalising Europe's economy might just get off the ground.

Prodi failed. A hands-off figurehead, he allowed the 1970s Stalinist redoubts
within the Commission to continue drafting laws that stifle wealth creation. The
socialist-run employment and environment directorates survived as the epicentre
of job destruction in Europe.

The Commission pulled in opposite directions: one wing deregulating, while
another reregulated even faster. The rest of the EU system was even worse.
Euro-MPs and EU ministers wrecked those proposals that were free-market, loading
them with special interest amendments that negated the original purpose.

Many of the offending MEPs and ministers are still there, but they no longer
command a majority after the arrival of the 10 new states. The tables are
turning. It may now be the British-led camp that has - more often than not - the
"qualified majority" needed to pass new laws in the Council of Ministers.

France and Germany are discovering, just as they did over the Iraq war, that
only Belgium and Luxembourg jump to attention when they announce "Europe's"
policy.

The push by the dying Prodi commission to strip states of their opt-out on the
48-hour working week will be the first acid test. The Poles have already lined
up beside the British.

Edward McMillan-Scott, a veteran Tory MEP, believes the EU system has at last
reached critical mass in favour of reform.

"There's no doubt that dawn is breaking from the East. The arrival of the
central Europeans coupled with Barroso means an end to the Rhineland economic
model, which is so manifestly failing in Germany," he said.

One thing is likely: the Commission is no longer going to be the engine of
destructive legislation that has so embittered small business. With sole "right
of initiative" to draft EU laws, it could now start pulling in the opposite
direction.

The point is hotly disputed by Nigel Farage, MEP, the UK Independence Party's
leader in Brussels and a City commodities broker. He wants Britain to severe its
ties to the EU's rotting corpse and embrace the vital world outside.

"With every new commission we see a torrent of fresh legislation, with nothing
that has gone before ever being repealed. Look at the disastrous CAP, we all
know how terrible it is, but real reform is always pushed off into the future,"
he said.

Well, yes. The New Europe revolution may be worth a modest wager on the Polish,
Portuguese, and even the German stock markets, but don't bet the farm.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              315 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

Howard seeks to counter UKIP

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News; Tony Blair the future Pg. 01

LENGTH: 318 words

MICHAEL Howard seeks to counter a growing threat to the Conservative Party's
election prospects from the UK Independence Party today by promising to hold an
early referendum on rejecting further European integration.

In an interview in The Daily Telegraph, the Tory leader says if he won a general
election expected next May, he would hold a referendum on the proposed European
constitution by October.

As prime minister, he would campaign for a No vote, and, if successful, would
use Britain's presidency of the EU in the second half of 2005 to insist that the
constitution was scrapped and powers returned to Britain from Brussels.

Mr Howard's decision to make the repatriation of powers a key plank of
Conservative policy will be seen as an attempt to halt the defection of Tory
supporters to UKIP.

The anti-Brussels party demonstrated that it had become a national political
force by pushing the Conservatives into fourth place in the Hartlepool
by-election.

Labour held the seat early yesterday with a greatly reduced majority, beating
off a strong Liberal Democrat challenge. The Tories, in second place at the last
general election, suffered their worst by-election setback since the Second
World War.

Mr Howard acknowledged that it was a "disappointing" result in the run-up to
next week's party conference in Bournemouth - his first as leader - which is
expected to be the last before an election.

He claimed that UKIP had benefited from a protest vote but when it came to a
general election voters would return to the Tories because they would be
choosing a government.

Nicholas Soames, the Conservative defence spokesman, said: "It's a f awful
result. It's a disastrous result but it's only a by-election."

In his Telegraph interview, Mr Howard says the Tories would unveil tax cut plans
at the next election, focussing on the "unfair" inheritance tax and income tax
thresholds.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              316 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

It all ends in tears

BYLINE: By David Millward

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 144 words

A FRACTIOUS by-election ended yesterday morning with one candidate in tears,
another in police custody and the main opposition party finishing a humiliating
fourth.

Jody Dunn, the heavily-hyped Liberal Democrat, entered the count believing she
had overturned Labour's 17,000-vote lead. She left dabbing her eyes, consoled by
party apparatchiks.

It was unclear whether her grief was due to the fact that Labour's Iain Wright
had beaten her by just over 2,000 votes or because of the antics of Paul Watson,
the Fathers-4-Justice candidate who poured purple powder over her.

Watson was arrested after making his closing speech and later released on bail.

One candidate who could claim a triumph was Stephen Allison, who catapulted the
United Kingdom Independence Party into third place, more than 100 votes ahead of
Jeremy Middleton, the Tory candidate.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              317 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

UKIP targets top MPs after surge in by-election

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 431 words

THE UK Independence Party is seeking to capitalise on its breakthrough in the
Hartlepool by-election by threatening to target leading Conservative and Labour
MPs at the general election.

UKIP, which forced the Tories into fourth place in Hartlepool, said it was
"almost certain" to field a candidate against Oliver Letwin, the shadow
Chancellor, who has a majority of only 1,414 in his West Dorset constituency.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, UKIP's highest-profile politician, plans to stand against
Geoff Hoon in the Defence Secretary's constituency of Ashfield in
Nottinghamshire.

However, Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader in the European Parliament, said Liberal
Democrat MPs - particularly in the South-West - would also face UKIP candidates.

The party, which advocates a complete withdrawal from the European Union,
gathers for its annual conference in Bristol today in celebratory mood after
Hartlepool.

In June, the party scored its greatest success, taking 16 per cent of the vote
and winning 12 European Parliament seats. But coming third ahead of the Tories
in Hartlepool represents its best performance in a first-past-the-post election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, Euro-MP for the East Midlands, said yesterday he was confident
that "we will have seats in the Westminster Parliament after the next general
election".

The former Labour MP also suggested that the by-election performance was all the
more impressive as it was not well funded.

Today's conference will debate proposals to allow MPs of any party to avoid a
UKIP challenge if they gave an "irrevocable undertaking" to support withdrawal
from the EU. However, the motion runs counter to Mr Kilroy-Silk's personal
pledge to rule out any deals and may be opposed by many UKIP delegates.

And UKIP's celebrations could be marred by continuing tensions over its
leadership and doubts whether it has the financial muscle to make a major impact
at the next general election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk has made no secret of his ambition to replace Roger Knapman, the
former Tory MP who currently leads the party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who last month claimed he had been promised the cash to field
candidates across the country, is understood to have rejected an offer to become
general election co-ordinator and is now deciding his next move.

Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire millionaire whose pounds 1.4 million contribution was
UKIP's biggest-single financial contribution at the European elections, has
already said he wants Mr Kilroy-Silk as leader before committing more funds.

Mr Sykes said last night that he was waiting to see "who the leader is".

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              318 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

Labour vote plummeted but Lib Dem 'foreigner' failed test The danger for the
Conservatives now is that they will overreact to the UKIP's relatively modest
advance

BYLINE: BY ANTHONY KING

SECTION: News Pg. 10

LENGTH: 658 words

WITH one important exception, the result of the Hartlepool by-election ran true
to form. The two main parties did badly and the Liberal Democrats forged ahead.
Turnout, as in most recent by-elections, was modest but not derisory.

Labour did almost badly enough to lose, but not quite. Hartlepool has long been
a Labour parliamentary stronghold and the party was wise to adopt a popular
local councillor as its candidate. Iain Wright may not make it to the Cabinet
but his earnest localism undoubtedly impressed constituents.

Even so, the Labour Party saw its share of the vote plummet from a formidable
59.1 per cent when Peter Mandelson was re-elected three years ago to a bare 40.7
per cent on Thursday - Labour's lowest share of the vote in Hartlepool for at
least half a century.

As the figures in the chart [below] show, the proportion of people voting Labour
has fallen by more than 30 per cent at every by-election fought over the past
year. Partly because Hartlepool has almost no Muslim voters, the Iraq conflict
seems to have damaged Labour less there than in London and the Midlands.

Jody Dunn, the Liberal Democrat candidate, will be disappointed not to have won.
Hartlepool's citizens are proud of their town's wind-swept isolation and Mrs
Dunn's "foreignness" - she lives 30 miles west near Darlington - was evidently a
handicap.

All the same, it was a considerable feat to more than double the Liberal
Democrats' share of the vote from 15.0 per cent at the General Election - a
typical Hartlepool figure - to 34.2 per cent on Thursday. The swing from Labour
to the Liberal Democrats, 18.8 per cent, approached that in the three previous
by-elections.

Mrs Dunn also did herself harm by remarking in her internet campaign diary that
in one street she canvassed everybody she met "was either drunk, flanked by an
angry dog or undressed". Disgusted Hartlepool was not amused.

The one exception to the pattern was the UKIP's sudden surge and the Tories'
utter humiliation. The Conservatives actually won Hartlepool in 1959 and had
never previously finished worse than second in the constituency. At the two most
recent general elections the Tories retained 20 per cent of the vote.

Not so on Thursday. They crashed resoundingly into fourth place and the Tory
candidate, Jeremy Middleton, saw his party's vote share more than halved from
20.9 per cent last time to 9.7 per cent. It was the party's most comprehensive
by-election defeat since the Second World War, possibly since the First.

The figures in the chart tell a grim story from the Conservatives' point of
view. Labour has lost vote share in every by-election in this Parliament but,
instead of profiting from Labour's discomfiture, the Conservatives have also
fallen back, though nowhere as far as in Hartlepool.

The principal author of the Tories' rout this week was, of course, the UKIP.
Both the opinion polls and real election results show that the UKIP cuts deeply
into the Conservatives' vote but not into anyone else's. In Hartlepool, where
the party did not even bother to field a candidate in 2001, Stephen Allison won
10.2 per cent of the vote and came third, though still a long way behind Labour
and the Liberal Democrats.

In the European Parliament elections in June the UKIP won 19.8 per cent of the
popular vote and captured one of the North East region's three Strasbourg seats.
That success has clearly caused some voters to take notice of the UKIP and
possibly think the party worth voting for. However, there are still no signs
that the UKIP is benefiting in any large way from the Conservatives' losses. A
Westminster seat still seems likely to elude them.

The danger for the Conservatives now is that they will overreact to the UKIP's
relatively modest advance. The biggest threats confronting the Tories remain the
Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats - and themselves.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              319 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

Blair is all promises. We are all action A bullish Michael Howard talks to
Martin Newland, editor of The Daily Telegraph, and George Jones, political
editor, before the party conference

BYLINE: BY MARTIN NEWLAND AND GEORGE JONES

SECTION: News Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1563 words

ABOVE Michael Howard's desk in his light and spacious office overlooking the
Thames at Westminster is a portrait of Winston Churchill. As he prepares to
address the Conservative Party conference next week as its fourth leader in
eight years, Mr Howard must feel that he needs to draw on inspiration from the
wartime premier.

The prospects for a Conservative victory at a general election next May appear
as bleak as when Britain stood alone during the dark days of the Second World
War. Humiliation in the Hartlepool by-election - where the party was relegated
from second to fourth place behind the revitalised UK Independence Party - was
the worst possible backdrop for the Bournemouth conference.

Yet Mr Howard was upbeat when The Daily Telegraph interviewed him. At 63, he is
12 years older than Mr Blair, but he dismissed suggestions that he was exhausted
by a heavy year of campaigning. Asked if he was "fighting fit", he replied
"absolutely".

He spoke passionately about three issues - the "chaotic" immigration and asylum
system, repatriating power from Brussels and the "lie" that Tony Blair had told
about the extent of pre-war intelligence on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.

His aim next week, he said, would be to show that the country was heading in the
wrong direction and needed to change course. "We need a government that tells
the truth and keeps its promises," he said.

Tax

Mr Howard claimed that if Labour were returned to power it would need to raise
taxes by pounds 20 billion to pay for its spending plans. The Conservatives
would avoid Labour's "third-term tax rises" by ensuring that overall government
spending rose more slowly.

"Nobody's talking about spending cuts, but we are talking about the pace at
which spending will increase," he said.

He acknowledged that the public did not believe promises about tax cuts. They
had been let down by the previous Conservative government, as well as by Tony
Blair - who came to power in 1997 saying that he had no plans to increase taxes.

"I am not going to make promises I can't keep," said Mr Howard. "Now, you say we
haven't promised to cut income tax. That's true. And the reason why is that if I
made that promise today, I can't be sure I could keep it."

Closer to the election, when they knew the level of government borrowing and had
completed their own review of "wasteful" spending, the Tories would offer
"targeted tax cuts", he said.

He singled out inheritance tax as a "very unfair tax". Many people who had
bought council houses under a previous Conservative government were coming into
the scope of the tax, he said.

Stamp duty was another unfair tax, and a barrier to home ownership.

Any scope for cutting income tax would be directed at taking those on low
incomes out of the tax bracket, he indicated. He also wanted to raise thresholds
for the 40 per cent top tax rate, which took effect on taxable incomes over
pounds 31,400. This was bearing unfairly on many people who had been drawn into
the top rate, but who would not regard themselves as high earners.

Europe and the UK Independence Party

At the next election, the choice would be between a Labour government in favour
of the European constitution, joining the euro and handing more powers to
Brussels - and a Conservative government opposed to the constitution and the
euro, and committed to bringing powers back from Brussels.

Every vote for the UKIP made it more likely that, after the election, Labour
would still be in power, Mr Howard warned. "It is very simple. If you want
another Blair government, vote UKIP or Liberal Democrat."

If the Conservatives won power at the next election, Mr Howard promised to hold
a referendum on the new European constitution by October 2005 - in the middle of
the British presidency of the EU.

"I will campaign for a No vote," he said. "I am confident we will get a No vote.
I will then go to the EU with a double mandate - a general election mandate and
a referendum mandate. I would say we are against the constitution. The
constitution is dead.

"Let us therefore sit down and look at the things that Europe can do best and
nation states can do best. And let us start to accept there are many things that
history shows very clearly are now much better dealt with at national level than
European level.

"I am fed up with the state of affairs where Britain is always saying 'no' to
the countries of Europe. So let's reach an agreement: you can do what you want
to do. And if you want to integrate more closely, that's fine by us - as long as
you don't make us do what we don't want to do."

A Conservative government, he added, would seek to reinstate Britain's opt-out
from the social chapter; to renegotiate the Common Fisheries Policy, which had
"devastated" fishing communities; and to take back control over international
aid.

"Instead of being a one-way street, Europe should be a two-way street and we
should start bringing back powers to Britain from Brussels."

Asked what would happen if other EU members said "no", Mr Howard refused to be
drawn: "I don't go into negotiations expecting to fail." But he would be in a
stronger position than any other British Prime Minister had been in before
because of the "double mandate", he said.

Asylum and Immigration

When it came to discussing immigration and asylum, a hard edge entered Mr
Howard's voice. The system, he said, was out of control.

Parliament should set an annual limit to the number of people allowed into the
country. And a Tory government would follow the example of Australia, which had
a points system for would-be immigrants - based on their age and the skills they
could bring to the country.

"We would still give refuge to genuine refugees and have people coming into the
country who wanted to work hard and become responsible members of our
community."

A Conservative government would withdraw from United Nations and European
conventions on refugees - both drawn up before the age of mass travel, he
pointed out - so that Parliament could decide its own immigration and asylum
policies.

"Good community relations and firm and fair immigration controls have always
gone hand in hand. It's desperately important that we maintain our good record
on community relations. That is at risk if we don't have proper control over
immigration."

Iraq

Mr Howard stood by his accusation that Tony Blair had "lied" to Parliament and
the public about the strength of the intelligence information on Saddam
Hussein's weapons of mass destruction.

Although Mr Blair had apologised for some of the information being wrong, he had
not explained why he told Parliament before the war that the picture painted by
the intelligence services was "extensive, detailed and authoritative" while it
was now known that the Joint Intelligence Committee had told him the
intelligence was "sporadic, patchy and limited".

"You can't put those two statements side by side and make sense of them. Mr
Blair said the assessed intelligence had established beyond doubt that Saddam
had continued to produce chemical and biological weapons. The JIC said it had
little intelligence on Iraq's chemical and biological weapon doctrine and knew
little about those weapons since late 1998."

Asked if the difference between those statements amounted to a lie, Mr Howard -
who is a Queen's Counsel - replied: "Yes it does. He wasn't telling the truth".

But he ruled out backing an attempt by anti-war MPs to revive a centuries-old
procedure to impeach Mr Blair. The British people could give their verdict on
his trustworthiness at the coming election, he said.

"None of this means that I have changed my position on the war. I supported the
war, and although it would be highly convenient for me to say something
different - and I know a lot of people would like me to say something different
- I still think it was the right thing to do. But it is perfectly possible to be
in favour of the war and to be in favour of telling the truth."

Crime

Two weeks ago, Mr Howard walked around the streets of Brixton, in south London,
with a group of "street pastors" - voluntary workers from local black churches,
who seek to keep young people away from crime. During two hours on a Saturday
night, they did not see a single police officer walking the streets - although
one police car cruised by. A Conservative government would put more officers
back on the beat, Mr Howard said.

It would scrap Labour's plan to require police officers to fill in a form every
time they stopped someone on the street. "We have got to stop the police having
their hands tied by political correctness and paper work," he said.

Hard-working families

At its conference in Brighton, Labour had stolen the Tory rhetoric on choice and
help for "hard-working families".

"We are going to give people real choice for the first time. There will no
longer be monopoly suppliers in health and education. Everyone knows monopolies
are the enemy of high standards. Choice and competition are the drivers of high
standards.

"The Government is now aping our language. Alan Milburn [Labour's election
supremo] two days ago said, 'We are going to give people the kind of choice that
now only people with money can buy.'

"The very phrase that I have been using for months. With Labour, you get the
language. With the Conservatives, you get the action."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              320 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

There's no point in voting Labour now, but can the Tories cash in?

BYLINE: By CHARLES MOORE

SECTION: Features; Comment on Saturday Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1137 words

Tony Blair has just removed the reason why his party was all but sure to win the
next election. From his announcement on Thursday night, his power began to drain
away; it can never now be restored. He is running the country from the departure
lounge. By putting a date on his own political death, he has made it certain
that a vote for Labour at the next election is not a vote for him and his
policies, while making it uncertain - because his successor is unknown - what it
would be a vote for. It will be a pig in a poke, or rather, lots of pigs, all
squealing angrily at one another.

Most political leaders have a desire to undermine their successor. Sometimes
this desire is more or less explicit as revenge for defeat - Heath versus
Thatcher - but even more often it is subliminal, the great egotist's belief
that, once he is gone, the light has faded from the scene. Such leaders tend to
try to anoint successors who they think will continue their work, but with
inferior powers. Such men, for some reason, tend to be pleasant-looking people,
usually with a full head of hair. For Churchill, it was Eden. For Margaret
Thatcher, for a period, it was someone called John Moore, whom everyone has
forgotten. Then it was John Major. For Mr Blair, it is Alan Milburn. Some of
these chosen heirs get the job, others don't, but none succeeds in it.

If Mr Blair ultimately gets the leader he wants, he will weaken his party. If he
gets the leader he doesn't want, then the direction of New Labour will be quite
different from its present one. Either way, voters at the next election will be
invited, in our increasingly presidential system, to vote for someone who will
not be "President" for long. The Blair guarantee is that he will see things
through to the election after this one, but, in our system, unlike the American,
that guarantee cannot be given. His party can have him out before then, and, if
he is no longer an electoral asset, why wouldn't they?

And if that is the situation that floating voters will confront at the next
election, why, exactly, will they vote Labour? Some may vote Labour on the basis
of a guess about which way the post-Tony party will go, but a guess is all it
will be. Perhaps, by speaking up now, Mr Blair thought that he would answer a
question that would assail him during the campaign. But he has only opened the
door for far more questions and they are ones that he is literally powerless to
answer.

And where are the Conservatives when, for the first time since Tony Blair became
leader in 1994, opportunity presents itself? They are facing the wrong way.

In the New Statesman this week, Michael Howard says that Mr Blair lied to take
us to war in Iraq, but we were right to go to war anyway. These propositions
may, in fact, both be true (though "lie" is almost always a word best avoided in
politics, since it just rebounds on its user), but what is the point of the
Opposition putting them? The Tory message is, "Tony Blair made fools of us." If
that is the case, why mention it?

The Irish writer Eoghan Harris has a striking analysis of why the Protestants in
Ulster made such a poor presentation of Unionism to the outside world while the
Catholics made such a good one of nationalism. It was because, says Harris, the
Protestants saw the argument as a court case they had to win, whereas the
Catholics saw it as a story they had to put on stage. The Tories in general, and
Mr Howard in particular, are the Protestant lawyers in politics. Their case is
good, and, under him, getting better, but they have no story. They obsess about
consistency or inconsistency in manifestos, about how what the Right Honourable
Gentleman said yesterday differs from what he said in Hansard three months
earlier. As a result, they are generally uninteresting and often
incomprehensible. Mr Blair's New Labour has told a story - increasingly
threadbare, yes, one that unhappily blends fact and fiction, but a story that
has some meaning, resonance and direction. Just as Mr Blair was telling the
world about his heart on Thursday night, the voters of Hartlepool were telling
the world that they still, just, accept the Labour story. They also showed that
they think even the UKIP story better than the Tory one.

We now know for certain that the great story-teller is to leave the scene. Tony
Blair's greatest single intuition has been to understand that Britain is
basically a conservative country, but one with little natural liking for the
Conservative Party. Like Bill Clinton in America, he has an ability to make
enough conservative people feel comfortable with him to push forward with a
vision which is not really conservative at all. Again like Clinton, he is the
only person in his country who can do this. So his promise of departure gives
real conservatives a chance.

There are those who think that Britain no longer possesses recognisably
conservative values. We have become, the theory goes, a nation of selfish
hedonistic pagans who watch daytime television and assault nurses if we have to
wait too long in casualty, the sort of people whose only skill is in getting
something for nothing out of the state, people who blame government for not
forcing them not to smoke.

Too many such people exist, but I don't believe the theory. By contrast, there
is an ever-growing middle and upper working class that strives mightily and
expects to take responsibility for itself. Almost all such people end up owning
their own house; many will own shares and arrange their own pensions. They do
not believe that higher taxes automatically mean better services. They want
freedom to choose hospitals and schools, as they choose cars and holidays. They
welcome innovation when it brings opportunity, but they dislike mere novelty.

The same people love their country and community, and they hate it being trashed
by crime or terrorism or cultural nihilism or uncontrolled immigration or
European bureaucrats. They are suspicious of the "human rights" that seem always
to favour the scallywag rather than the good citizen. Their love of liberty is
not a love of weightless freedom, but of independence, both of individual and
nation. They give meaning to the phrase "It's a free country", and they
vigorously resist threats to it.

At their best, they are people like Olivia Taylor, widow of the 27-year-old
Corporal Marc Taylor, killed in an ambush in Iraq this week, who said: "He was
an Army man through and through. He was always positive about his time in Iraq
and serving his country. He enjoyed doing the particular job he was doing,
helping the Iraqi people rebuild their lives. All of his family are proud that
he died doing the job he wanted to do."

Such people are conservatives. If the Conservative Party cannot tell their
story, there is no point in it.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              321 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 02, 2004, Saturday

Howard must be ruthless in the pursuit of power

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 27

LENGTH: 722 words

Who, right now, would be in Michael Howard's shoes? No sooner had his spirits
been lifted by news of Tony Blair's decision to make the next general election
his last than the Conservative candidate finished in fourth place in Hartlepool.
There is no point in pretending that this result was anything other than an
unmitigated disaster for the Tories; indeed, it was quite possibly the worst
by-election performance by an official Opposition in modern history. Mr Howard
must be tempted to echo Winston Churchill, when his wife sought to reassure him
that the 1945 Labour landslide might be a blessing in disguise. "At the moment,
it seems quite effectively disguised," he replied.

Bad as Hartlepool was for the Tories, however, it is not a cause for despair.
Indeed, it may well be that Tory fortunes had to touch rock bottom before the
party could be persuaded to rediscover its true vision and purpose. For years,
this newspaper has been urging successive Tory leaderships to set before the
British people a coherent, courageous and confidently Conservative alternative
to New Labour. And there are now definite signs that Mr Howard and his
colleagues are at last beginning to do precisely that. Whether it is already too
late to win the next election is another matter. But the political kaleidoscope
has been shaken up by Mr Blair's heart operation and the knowledge that his
career as Prime Minister is now drawing to a close.

It is not inconceivable that the electorate, unnerved by uncertainty about the
Labour leadership, may now be willing to take another look at the Conservatives.
Next week's conference in Bournemouth may be the last chance for Mr Howard to
regain the attention of the public before the general election campaign begins
in earnest. He will, at any rate, enjoy the rare luxury of joking about a
leadership crisis at Labour's expense.

To judge from Mr Howard's pre-conference interview, he is thinking along the
right lines. He promises to hold a referendum on the European constitution
within six months of returning to office and, if the result is a "No", to
renegotiate the terms of British membership of the EU. Taken together with his
firm pledge to introduce an Australian-style quota system of immigration
controls, this platform may go some way to meet the concerns of that section of
the Tory vote that has, at least temporarily, abandoned its traditional
allegiance in favour of the UK Independence Party. Mr Howard has, rightly, set
his face against electoral pacts with UKIP, even though some Tories have
privately been praying that such a deal might be done. In the past year, England
has, in effect, been following the rest of the United Kingdom towards a
multi-party system. That way lies Continental coalition politics. Unless Mr
Howard can see off UKIP, there is no hope of another Tory government.

There is much more that Mr Howard still has to do if he is to take advantage of
Mr Blair's new vulnerability. The Tory leader has belatedly put fiscal reform at
the heart of his campaign. He hints at plans to reduce the burden of inheritance
tax, stamp duty and high-rate income tax on the "hard-working families" for
whose interests (and votes) Mr Blair was so solicitous at Brighton this week.
But Mr Howard is wary of talking about tax "cuts", for fear of questions about
consequent "cuts" in public services. Here he is too cautious. He must instead
explain how public services could actually be more efficient, as well as
cheaper, if they were less bureaucratic. Unless Tory politicians broadcast their
plans to let the middle classes keep more of their earnings, starting next week,
there will be no time in which to overcome the natural cynicism with which
voters treat all such election promises.

Above the excitement of yesterday's hospital drama, one might have detected the
melancholy, long, withdrawing roar of the Blair era. Kremlinologists will have
noted that it was Gordon Brown who pre-empted the official bulletin to reveal
that the Prime Minister's operation had gone well, while other contenders
protested their loyalty too much. Mr Howard must fight a much more ruthless
campaign to alert voters to the fact that, if they give Mr Blair the benefit of
the doubt at the next election, they are more than likely to find themselves
ruled by a Scottish socialist.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              322 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 2, 2004

POLL RESULT WAS 'AWFUL, A DISASTER', SAYS TOP TORY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 136 words


THE Tories were reeling yesterday from one of the worst poll results in the
party's history after they were relegated to fourth place in the Hartlepool
by-election.

They finished behind Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the UK Independence
Party.

The result prompted Shadow Defence Secretary Nicholas Soames to describe it as
"a f****** awful result . . . disastrous".

Labour held on to the seat after it was vacated by Peter Mandelson's resignation
as an MP to become Britain's European Commissioner. But their majority was
slashed from more than 14,000 to just over 2,000, by a strong challenge from Lib
Dem Jody Dunn - who wept at the result.

For the Tories, finishing fourth149 votes behind UKip - was the worst possible
curtain-raiser for their annual conference, which starts on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              323 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 2, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Politics after Hartlepool: Labour's balancing act

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 651 words


At the end of one of the most intense and tumultuous domestic political weeks of
the year, the temptation to say that everything about the Labour government is
once again in flux is hard to resist. It is not difficult to assemble reasons
for such a belief. Top of the list, if only because of its great symbolism, is
Tony Blair's health. A heart treatment, the second within a year, is a powerful
reminder of human and political mortality alike. The prime minister's purchase
of a retirement home underscores the same point - a material glimpse of a
political future that is Blairless. Mr Blair's revelation that he will indeed be
gone by the general election of 2009 only rocks the political temple still
further. It makes him already a lame duck leader in some eyes, and it conjures
the prospect of four and a half years continuous speculation over who will
succeed him. All this has occurred against the backdrop of a tense and difficult
Labour conference week, to the unending descant of the Blair-Brown manoeuvring,
and in the light of a Hartlepool byelection in which one in every three people
who voted Labour in 2001 deserted the party on Thursday.

Yet through all the uncertainty and all the instability, something different may
have begun to take shape this week. That something is the gradual and growing
possibility that the Labour party led by Tony Blair is unifying in the run-up to
a 2005 general election which it has always seemed likely to win. There are two
ways of looking at the week's events: one emphasises the motors of flux, the
other registers a belief that Labour is slowly regaining some balance. Looked at
in the latter way, Labour has had a reasonably successful conference, in which
Mr Blair's changes of focus and tone, limited though they were, effectively
calmed some of his critics, especially in the unions, and generated some useful
new policies and momentum. That was only partly undermined by a Hartlepool win
that, while no great triumph, was nevertheless a narrow victory for a government
that is not doing brilliantly in the opinion polls. If you accept that neither
Mr Blair's health nor his house purchase signals imminent change at the top
(which, it must be said, many don't), then both he and the Labour party may be
slowly emerging from the traumas of the last three years towards a more credible
election fighting position. Many erstwhile supporters are unconvinced by this.
For them, the jury is still out.

If Hartlepool is not to prove a pyrrhic Labour victory, as a comparable win in
Darlington was a generation ago, then the better signals from the party
conference this week - including Mr Blair's halting efforts at dialogue over
Iraq, the attempts to re-energise the domestic policy programme, the impulse for
unity, compromise and mutual respect - need to be strengthened and carried
forward more boldly. If that does not happen, then the surge to the Liberal
Democrats that came close to capturing the seat will continue, and not just in
Hartlepool. The very worst lessons that Labour could draw from the byelection
are that it can ease up on its slow re-engagement with its supporters, or that a
third general election victory is now almost in the bag. It is true that Ukip's
third place in Hartlepool, and the extraordinarily poor Conservative showing,
point to the possibility of a more general electoral alignment on the right
that, because of the first-past-the-post system, could be incredibly favourable
for Labour in the general election. But if Labour is to deserve to win again in
2005, it must win on the merits of its own programme, its own principles and its
own leaders, not on the basis of the squabbling on the right. The electorate may
be slowly coming round to the idea of a third term, but Labour this week has
only just begun to make the case. This is the moment to redouble those efforts,
not to relax them.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              324 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 2, 2004

Blair: the third term: Battered Tories face pressure to change: Leadership seen
as secure, but Howard will be urged to alter strategy after dire election result

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 966 words


Michael Howard will next week come under pressure from senior Tories to embark
on a change of strategy after the party came fourth behind the UK Independence
party in Thursday's Hartlepool byelection.

All sides of the party, which has painful memories of last year's conference in
the final weeks of Iain Duncan Smith's leadership, agree that Mr Howard's
leadership is secure. But key figures are saying he must change tack on two
fronts: reassess his "clumsy" performances against Tony Blair in the Commons and
reform the running of Conservative central office in the run-up to next year's
general election.

In the wake of their dire performance party figures promised to deliver a tough
message to Mr Howard at the party's Bournemouth conference which begins next
week.

The mutterings came after a result which would have dominated the political
headlines if Tony Blair had not made his announcement about his delayed
resignation. Jeremy Middleton, the Tory candidate, trailed the Ukip candidate
Stephen Allison by 3,044 votes to 3,193. It was the first time since the middle
of the last century that the main opposition party had sunk to fourth place in
an English parliamentary election.

The Tories, who came second in Hartlepool in the general election, saw their
vote drop by 11.1 percentage points. This appeared to have gone directly to
Ukip, which saw its share increase by 10.2 points.

Some in the party believe the Conservatives should not allow themselves to be
distracted, among them the famously outspoken defence spokesman, Nicholas
Soames. Yesterday he was blunt: "There's nothing we can do but take it on the
chin and that's the end of it. It's a fucking awful result. It's a disastrous
result but it's only a byelection. I don't regard it as a step forward and I
don't regard it as a step back."

Churchill's advice

He urged his party to follow the advice of his grandfather, Winston Churchill,
who led the Tories to an emphatic election victory in 1951 six years after
Labour's landslide in the 1945 election. "We should follow Churchill's advice
and KBO - keep buggering on." Mr Soames told the Tory leader to ignore calls to
move to the right or to the left in response to Ukip.

But some on the Tory right are keen to see Mr Howard adopt a more Eurosceptic
tone to win back Tories who are attracted by Ukip's pledge to withdraw from the
EU. Others on the left say Mr Howard's Euroscepticism turns off voters on the
centre ground.

Mr Soames dismissed this, saying: "The strength of a political party is its
ability not to divert itself either to the right or the left." But John Redwood,
the fiercely Eurosceptic shadow secretary of deregulation, attempted to reach
out to Ukip

voters.

"All sensible Ukip voters will see that they must vote Conservative because we
are offering them something closer to what they want on Europe," the former
cabinet minister told Radio 4's The World at One.

"I don't regard people who vote Ukip as an irritant. I think they are people who
desperately care about their country and I think they are intelligent people who
will want to vote Conservative at the general election."

Mr Redwood's remarks show that the Tories have decided to abandon their initial
strategy on Ukip over the summer, which was to dismiss it as a party of
"gadflies". But Mr Redwood's carefully chosen words show that the Tories will
not immediately harden their stance on Europe.

This will please moderate members of the shadow cabinet who believe the Tories
cannot afford a repeat of William Hague's "core votes" strategy.

But one well-placed Tory said that Mr Howard will be told that his leadership
style must change. "The strategy needs to be revised. His handling of the Iraq
issue over the summer was a bit clumsy. It played to his weaknesses. There are
still some organisational flaws at central

office."

Such remarks will raise questions about the performance of Liam Fox, the Tory
co-chairman. Critics say the party runs energetic byelection campaigns but
failed to organise for the most recent national polls - the European and local
elections in June.

One shadow minister was even more gloomy. "The election next year will be
Groundhog Day. We're stuffed because Tony Blair sounds like a Tory and has Tory
instincts."

Boris Johnson, the shadow arts minister, last night described the result as a
"bummer". Asked on BBC Radio 4's PM programme why the Tories were still
struggling, the Spectator editor said: "We're still thought of as vaguely uncool
and unfashionable, like Marks & Spencer. We just don't seem to be the buzzy
thing on the shelf for the political consumer."

Tony King, a psephologist of Essex University, was blunt. He told the BBC: "The
Tories have been losing strength in byelections ever since this parliament
began. They should be gaining seats or at least finishing a strong second.
Instead they are finishing third or even fourth. The Tories ought to be on
40-45% (in the opinion polls), they ought to be galloping ahead. Where are they?
At best in the mid 30s, at worst in the low 30s."

Iain Wright (Lab) 12,752 (40.66%, -18.49%)

Jody Dunn (LD) 10,719 (34.18%, +19.15%)

Stephen Allison (Ukip) 3,193 (10.18%)

Jeremy Middleton (C) 3,044 (9.71%,

-11.15%)

John Bloom (Respect) 572 (1.82%)

Iris Ryder (Green) 255 (0.81%)

James Starkey (NF) 246 (0.78%)

Paul Watson (Fathers) 139 (0.44%)

Christopher Herriot (Soc Lab) 95 (0.3%, -2.09%)

Richard Rodgers (Common Good) 91 (0.29%)

Philip Berriman (Ind) 90 (0.29%)

Alan "Howling Laud" Hope (Loony) 80 (0.26%)

Ronnie Carroll (Ind) 45 (0.14%)

Edward Abrams (Eng Dem) 41 (0.13%)

Lab maj 2,033 (6.48%)

Swing Lab to LD 18.82%

Electorate 68,517

Turnout 31,362 (45.77%, -10.47%)


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              325 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 2, 2004

Blair: the third term: Lib Dems claim to be Labours main opposition in urban
Britain

BYLINE: Sarah Hall, Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 535 words


The Liberal Democrats yesterday insisted that they were the real opposition to
Labour in urban Britain after coming a close second to Labour in yesterday's
Hartlepool byelection.

But Labour was reassured that its core vote was holding up after winning more
than 40% of the vote.

Fresh from taking part in a bus-top victory tour, Labour campaigners said that
predictions that the Lib Dems were on the cusp of an electoral breakthrough had
been proved wrong by Labour's byelection victory.

Fraser Kemp, Labour's Hartlepool campaign manager and a government whip, said:
"This result is a disaster for the Liberal Democrats. Their bandwagon has been
firmly stopped in Hartlepool. They threw everything they had at this but they
failed to do it, after a 10-week campaign and with an incumbent government in
power for seven years. This shows they've serious electoral problems and have
failed to make the breakthrough. The Lib Dems are going nowhere in British
politics."

But he added: "Ultimately it's worse for the Conservatives. For the official
opposition to come fourth is something that has never happened since the second
world war and is devastating. It's not for me to speculate on the internal
machinations of the Tory party this weekend but I wouldn't think they'd be
pretty."

In the wake of the result Chris Rennard, the Lib Dems' chief executive and
election guru, insisted the party was not downbeat about coming from 17,000
votes down to 2,033 within taking the north-east constituency.

And he insisted the Lib Dems had now proved themselves the challengers to the
government in urban Britain by coming from a poor third to first, or a close
second, in four consecutive byelections - Brent East, Leicester South,
Birmingham Hodge Hill, and now Hartlepool - within a year.

With the Lib Dems achieving swings of 28%, 21% and 27% against Labour in the
first three of these byelections, the general - perhaps unfair - expectation was
that they would manage an equally dramatic feat again.

But Lord Rennard said the Lib Dems' 18.8% swing from Labour was still "at the
top end of the range of historic byelection surges", while 15.6% of
Conservatives - who came fourth - had also defected to the Lib Dems. They had
thought they could push the Labour vote down to 40% and instead Iain Wright, the
successful candidate, achieved 41%.

Lord Rennard said: "The Lib Dems are now clearly the alternative to Labour in
towns and cities, while the Conservatives are in freefall in urban seats, having
come fourth to Ukip after starting in second place."

The UK Independence party, which polled 3,193 votes to the Tories' 3,044, helped
by a local candidate, had been a "significant factor" in the byelection, as was
the fact that the

anti-war vote was not as significant as it had been in Brent East and Leicester
South with their large Muslim communities.

But the real difficulty for the Lib Dems, whose leader, Charles Kennedy, made
six visits to the seat, was that, with 14 candidates to choose from, they had
been unable to squeeze sufficiently the fringe groups and parties, as they had
done in the byelections last September and in July.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

TORY TENSIONS DEEPEN AFTER DISASTER IN BY-ELECTION

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL AND IAN HERBERT Labour's Iain Wright making his victory
speech, with the Tory Jeremy Middleton behind him Matthew Lewis

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 987 words


TENSIONS BETWEEN Michael Howard and modernisers in the Conservative Party
surfaced yesterday after its dismal showing in the Hartlepool by- election, with
the left wing calling for the party not to lurch to the right.

The shadow Defence Secretary, Nicholas Soames, called the party's performance
"f***ing awful" after the Tories were forced into fourth place by the United
Kingdom Independence Party UKIP . He said: "It's a disastrous result but it's
only a by-election. I don't regard it as a step forward and I don't regard it as
a step back."

But Ian Taylor, a former Tory trade and industry minister, led the charge from
the party's left. He warned: "I think that is quite likely that we will learn
the wrong lesson. There are those in the party who will make us look and sound a
bit more like UKIP and I'm afraid the only result of that is we will end up with
very much the same result as UKIP get. We will be contesting the fringe vote.

"When you consider we were second at the last election, the voters of Hartlepool
ought to have seen us as the main way of damaging the Labour government, instead
of which they went to the third party, the Liberal Democrats and we should learn
the lesson."

He told BBC Radio 4: "UKIP is an irritant but frankly when it comes to a general
election we have to go after the majority of the votes and they are at the
moment between Labour and the Liberal Democrats. The lesson from our point of
view is we have to occupy the centre ground and push the other parties off it."

There was further bad news for the Tories yesterday as they prepared for next
week's party conference. A YouGov poll for The Economist magazine found that
half of voters believed Mr Howard was the wrong leader for the party, and the
Tory leader admitted in a magazine interview that the Conservatives were not yet
seen as credible.

Mr Howard told the Readers' Digest the electorate had lost trust in Tony Blair,
but added: "They're not yet convinced we are a credible alternative." He added:
"The best stab I can make is that we don't yet have enough credible policies on
things that matter ... That's what we've got to put right."

Aides to Mr Howard insisted that the party would not move to the right to
counter the threat from UKIP and insisted the party remained the only
alternative to Labour. One said: "Hartlepool is a disappointing result but we
are not going to base our strategy for the election on one by-election in a safe
Labour seat in the north of England. There is no question of that having an
impact on the way we run our party conference or what we will do in the run up
to the next election."

The source added: "Michael Howard will not shift the Europe policy one iota. We
will have to make sure there is a very clear message at the general election.
UKIP is not going to form a government. A lot of people are worried about
Europe. They know they will have either a Blair government or a Howard
government. There's no middle way."

Boris Johnson, the Conservative MP for Henley, said the party "does not seem to
be the buzzy thing on the shelf of the political consumer". He said: "We have
been out of power now for however long miserable period it is and it is true
that we are having trouble at the moment, but we will come back."

The by-election was triggered by the resignation of Peter Mandelson, the former
Northern Ireland secretary, to allow him to take up his post as Britain's
European commissioner.

The inability of senior local Conservatives to contain their own sense of
impending disaster contributed to the party's showing. In particular, the
Liberal Democrats seized upon an interview given by George Morris, the town's
Tory leader, who was asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme whether he thought
his party had any chance of winning. "No," he said. Gus Robinson, a local boxing
promoter who stood for the Conservatives in 2001, declined to do so again
because he said the Tories had no chance.

The Tories' apparent struggle to find a candidate resulted in Jeremy Middleton,
a wealthy businessman who made his money by floating his 12- year-old Newcastle
plumbing company, becoming the last of the major contenders to be revealed. This
engendered a sense of panic even before the campaign began.

Yesterday the victorious Labour candidate, Iain Wright, toured the constituency
on an open-top red London bus as Labour celebrated the victory despite its
majority falling from 14,000 to just over 2,000

The count early yesterday was marred when Jody Dunn, the second placed Liberal
Democrat candidate, was sprinkled with purple powder by Fathers 4 justice
campaigners. Ms Dunn, who has four children, said: "These few people, by doing
acts like this at a time when we should all be afforded dignity to say something
about our own performance in this by-election, they do huge amounts of damage to
their cause."

Ms Dunn indicated that she would be prepared to stand again in an election next
year though senior figures in the party, delighted by her performance, seem
ready to seek a more winnable seat for her.

Labour was jubilant at the Tories' poor showing, despite a strong challenge from
the Liberals. The party chairman, Ian McCartney, said: "The Tories are now going
into their party conference as the fringe party."

Senior Labour figures are hoping to use their tactics in Hartlepool to try to
keep the Liberal Democrats out of other target seats. But the Liberal Democrat
leadership hopes to focus on urban seats where the Tories are virtually
non-existent and where Labour seems vulnerable. Lord Rennard, the party's chief
election strategist, said: "The Conservatives have no councillors in Liverpool,
Birmingham or Newcastle. If we have control of local councils, as we do in
Durham, Newcastle and Liverpool, that puts us in a strong position in the local
media and enables us to build our credibility."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              327 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

HOWARD MUST CONFRONT NEW THREAT TO HIS PARTY'S PROSPECTS

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 794 words


MICHAEL HOWARD must have been hoping to use his party conference next week to
ready his troops for the general election. Instead he will have to scrape his
party's broken morale from off the floor.

The result in Hartlepool could hardly have been worse for the Conservative
leader. His party tumbled to fourth place in an English by-election for only the
second time in history - and the last time it happened, in Liverpool Walton in
1991, it had the excuse that the Labour vote split between an official and a
rebel candidate.

The Hartlepool result was significantly worse than last summer's performances in
Birmingham Hodge Hill and Leicester South. There at least, the Conservatives
more or less held on to the vote share they had won in 2001. In Hartlepool their
vote fell by no fewer than 11 points. Only once in the past seven years has the
party performed this badly, and that was in the special circumstances of the
1997 Winchester by-election, held after the defeated local Conservative
candidate mounted a successful legal challenge to the general election result.

What of course was unusual this time was UKIP's success. In the two previous
by-elections UKIP fought in this parliament it won no more than 1 per cent. This
time it overtook the Tories with more than 10 per cent. It was undoubtedly this
advance that caused the Tory vote to fall so much.

Unfortunately for Mr Howard, UKIP was better placed to push the party into
fourth place in Hartlepool than almost anywhere else. Labour constituencies are
usually poor hunting ground for UKIP. But it won nearly 20 per cent of the vote
in Hartlepool in last June's Euro-elections, more than anywhere else in the
North-east. The party even managed to beat the Tories in the town's local
council elections, too.

But while the UKIP threat was unusually strong in Hartlepool, the result still
starkly illustrates the danger the party could pose to Tory prospects at the
next election. Even if the Tories were to do no more than win the same share of
the vote as in 2001, they could still hope to pick up seats from Labour thanks
to voters switching from Labour to the Liberal Democrats. But if UKIP takes as
little as 2 or 3 per cent of the vote from the Conservatives in marginal Labour
seats, those gains could rapidly disappear.

They would, of course, disappear if Labour recovers in the polls between now and
next May. The party's Hartlepool performance certainly suggests this is
possible. The 18-point drop in its support was well down on the 25 to 29 point
falls it suffered in Brent East, Leicester South and Birmingham Hodge Hill.
Unlike those performances, Labour's loss of support in Hartlepool was
commensurate with the kind of losses the Tories frequently suffered in
by-elections in the 1987-1992 parliament, losses that did not stop John Major
winning the 1992 general election.

Labour's relative success in Hartlepool lies in the apparent failure of Iraq to
upset as many former Labour voters as it did in Brent, Leicester or Birmingham
with their significant Muslim populations. Respect, the anti-war coalition,
saved its deposit in both of last summer's by-elections. In Hartlepool, with its
almost uniformly white population, it managed less than 2 per cent. While the
contrast provides some comfort that Iraq has not upset non-Muslim Labour
supporters as much as Muslims, it also confirms the party faces an uphill task
among the latter.

The Liberal Democrats again demonstrated their new found ability to advance in
traditional Labour territory, even if they had already long since established
themselves as the second party in local elections in Hartlepool. While they were
as much as 6.5 points adrift of Labour, the 19 point increase in their share of
the vote was actually slightly higher than the 18 point increase the party
secured in winning Leicester South. Never before has the party shown such a
consistent ability to win by-election votes in traditional Labour territory as
it has done over the past year. The Liberal Democrats evidently remain the
biggest threat to Tony Blair's hopes of comfortably securing the third term he
wants.

One feature of the result, however, will give all politicians, anxious about low
turnouts, some cheer. At nearly 46 per cent, the turnout was the highest
recorded in a by-election in a safe Labour seat in England for 13 years. At just
under 40 per cent, the average turnout in such by-elections in this parliament
is well above the 25 per cent recorded between 1997 and 2001 and is on a par
with turnout in the 1992-97 parliament. In courting unpopularity Mr Blair may at
least have given voters some reasons to return to the polls.

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              328 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE: A QUESTION OF SURVIVAL FOR THE TORY PARTY

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 414 words


MICHAEL HOWARD will try to convince the Tory faithful in Bournemouth next week
that the "dark days" of the Conservative Party are over. But the results from
the Hartlepool by-election show the Tory party is as far from the light as ever.
In the end, Labour managed to hold on to Peter Mandelson's old seat, despite an
extraordinary surge in support for the Liberal Democrats that turned a safe
Labour seat into a tight marginal. But the biggest loser was the Conservative
Party. The Tories slipped from second place in the 2001 general election to a
poor fourth, limping home behind even the UK Independence Party. This is the
first time the official opposition has finished fourth in a by-election since
the 1970s, which sums up the abject state of Mr Howard's party.

UKIP stole the Tories' Eurosceptic thunder in the recent European elections and
aims to do the same in the next general election. It could scupper the Tories'
chances of victory in scores of crucial Tory-Labour marginal constituencies, and
even cause the loss of some seats the party still holds. And then there is the
Lib Dem challenge. Hartlepool has confirmed again that the Lib Dems are seen as
the real party of opposition at the moment, partly due to their principled stand
against the war in Iraq. Unless Mr Howard can shift this perception, he must
prepare himself to lose seats to the Lib Dems too at the next general election.

Mr Howard finds himself pulled in two directions. Siren voices encourage him to
move to the right, especially over Europe, to entice voters back from UKIP, but
common sense tells him to strive for the moderate centre ground where all
elections are ultimately won. It would take an extraordinary politician to solve
this problem. And, sadly for Mr Howard, there is decreasing evidence that he is
the man to do this. His only consolation is that, for all the shrewdness of
Malcolm Rifkind, the talent of David Cameron, the ambition of Liam Fox, it is
hard to see anyone within the Tory party with sufficient vision to carry off the
resuscitation of a party that once proclaimed itself the natural party of
government.

There are now real questions of survival facing the party. It seems set on a
course that will lead to defeat at the next general election. Only then will we
find out if the Tories can reconnect with the voters. And only then will we
learn if the they are destined to be a force in the 21st century or to be
consigned to the history books.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              329 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

A STAKE THROUGH THE HARTLEPOOL;
 EVEN UKIP BEATS HOWARD'S TORIES IN CRUCIAL BY-ELECTION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRIUMPHANT: Iain Wright


MICHAEL "Dracula" Howard was licking his wounds yesterday after the Tories
finished fourth in the Hartlepool by-election.

Labour's Iain Wright beat Lib Dem Jody Dunn and the UK Independence Party
slipped into third place leaving the Conservatives adrift.

The result is catastrophic for Tory leader Mr Howard coming days before his
party's annual conference.

Shadow defence secretary Nicholas Soames said it was a "f*****g awful result"
and it overshadowed his announcement about new Tory defence spending proposals
yesterday.

Shadow work secretary David Willetts said: "There is no point pretending
otherwise. It is a blow." But he insisted Mr Howard would hang on and there
would be no leadership battle.

He added: "One of the things our party has learned by now is that endless
speculation about the leadership is a self-indulgence that we simply cannot
afford. We are simply - the Conservative Party - not going down that road."

It is the first time the Tories have crashed to fourth place in their history.

Tory Party chairman Liam Fox said: "It is a very disappointing result. We have
to take it on the chin."

Mr Howard himself has admitted his party is no threat to Tony Blair.

He said that voters "feel desperately let down by Labour". But he added:
"They're not yet convinced we are a credible alternative."

In an amazingly frank interview in this month's Reader's Digest, he admits he
doesn't know why the Tories are failing to make an impact. Mr Howard said: "The
best stab I can make is that we don't yet have enough credible policies on
things that matter to people. That's what we've got to put right."

And he said the Tories would cut public services. "I'm wholly signed up to the
philosophy of lower taxes, but unless you can identify where the money will come
from to finance the cuts, people won't believe it.

"Once we've identified the savings, I hope we'd be in a position to offer tax
cuts before the election."

Labour held on to Hartlepool by just 2,033 votes - a huge swing from former MP
Peter Mandelson's 14,571 majority. He vacated the seat to become a European
Commissioner.

New MP Mr Wright celebrated with a tour of the North East town in an open topped
bus, while Labour heaped on the embarrassment for the Tories. Commons leader
Peter Hain said: "This is an absolute catastrophe for the Conservative Party. Mr
Howard has shown he is simply not taking them anywhere."

Lib Dem chairman Matthew Taylor said: "This is a catastrophic result for Mr
Howard. He was brought in to replace Iain Duncan Smith because he was doing so
badly, now he is doing worse."

THAT F***ING AWFUL RESULT IN FULL..

LABOUR 12,752

LIB DEMS 10,719

UKIP 3,193

TORIES 3,044

Turnout 45%

Swing of 18% from Labour to Lib Dem. Tory vote down 11%

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              330 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

A STAKE THROUGH THE HARTLEPOOL;
 HOWARD'S TORIES REEL AT HORROR OF 4TH PLACE BEATING IT'S A F***ING

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Yorks Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRIUMPHANT: Iain Wright


MICHAEL "Dracula" Howard was fatally wounded yesterday after the Tories finished
fourth in the Hartlepool by-election.

Labour's Iain Wright beat Lib Dem Jody Dunn and the UK Independence Party
slipped into third place leaving the Conservatives adrift.

The result is catastrophic for Tory leader Mr Howard coming days before his
party's annual conference.

Shadow defence secretary Nicholas Soames said it was a "f*****g awful result"
and it overshadowed his announcement about new Tory defence spending proposals
yesterday.

Shadow work secretary David Willetts said: "There is no point pretending
otherwise. It is a blow." But he insisted Mr Howard would hang on and there
would be no leadership battle.

He added: "One of the things our party has learned by now is that endless
speculation about the leadership is a self-indulgence that we simply cannot
afford. We are simply - the Conservative Party - not going down that road."

It is the first time the Tories have crashed to fourth place in their history.

Tory Party chairman Liam Fox said: "It is a very disappointing result. We have
to take it on the chin."

Mr Howard himself has admitted his party is no threat to Tony Blair.

He said that voters "feel desperately let down by Labour". But he added:
"They're not yet convinced we are a credible alternative."

In an amazingly frank interview in this month's Reader's Digest, he admits he
doesn't know why the Tories are failing to make an impact. Mr Howard said: "The
best stab I can make is that we don't yet have enough credible policies on
things that matter to people. That's what we've got to put right."

And he said the Tories would cut public services. "I'm wholly signed up to the
philosophy of lower taxes, but unless you can identify where the money will come
from to finance the cuts, people won't believe it.

"Once we've identified the savings, I hope we'd be in a position to offer tax
cuts before the election."

Labour held on to Hartlepool by just 2,033 votes - a huge swing from former MP
Peter Mandelson's 14,571 majority. He vacated the seat to become a European
Commissioner.

New MP Mr Wright celebrated with a tour of the North East town in an open topped
bus, while Labour heaped on the embarrassment for the Tories. Commons leader
Peter Hain said: "This is an absolute catastrophe for the Conservative Party. Mr
Howard has shown he is simply not taking them anywhere."

Lib Dem chairman Matthew Taylor said: "This is a catastrophic result for Mr
Howard. He was brought in to replace Iain Duncan Smith because he was doing so
badly, now he is doing worse."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              331 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

TORIES IN ELECTION BATTERING

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 145 words

HIGHLIGHT: LOSER: Howard


THE Tories were staring into the political abyss yesterday after collapsing into
fourth place in the Hartlepool by-election.

In a catastrophic result for leader Michael Howard, just days before the
Conservative's annual conference, they were beaten by the far-right UK
Independence Party.

Shadow defence secretary Nicholas Soames described the result as "a f******
awful result".

Mr Soames was speaking at a press conference to announce new Tory defence
spending plans, but was overshadowed by the polls disaster.

The humiliated Tory candidate Jeremy Middleton even demanded a recount but
election officials refused.

Labour's Ian Wright hung on to the North-East seat despite a strong challenge
from the Liberal Democrats.

Dads' pressure group Fathers4Justice disrupted the count by throwing purple
powder on blonde Lib Dem candidate Jody Dunn.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              332 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 2, 2004

EFFING AWFUL

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 247 words


So, Mr Soames, what did you think of Tory showing in Hartlepool by-election?

A TOP Tory last night stunned party chiefs by admitting the Hartlepool by
election vote was a "f***ing awful result".

Shadow Defence Secretary Nicholas Soames confessed fourth place behind the UK
Independence Party was "disastrous".

The grandson of Winston Churchill said: "There's nothing we can do but take it
on the chin and that's the end of it."

It is the first time a main opposition party has come fourth in a by-election
since World War Two.

Tory Jeremy Middleton came 149 votes behind UKIP candidate Stephen Allison.

Labour's Iain Wright held Peter Mandelson's old seat but the majority was
slashed from 14,000 to 2,000 by the Lib Dems.

Mr Soames's outburst smashed Tory hopes of cashing in on Labour in-fighting
after Tony Blair revealed he will NOT lead the party into a fourth election.

They predict a Labour civil war as Cabinet members battle to succeed the PM.

A senior Tory said: "Labour's going to be in turmoil. This is the luck we've
waited for."

The Conservatives will roll out major pledges on the economy, schools,
hospitals, transport and the family at their Bournemouth conference, which
starts tomorrow.

Mr Soames was only appointed three weeks ago -against the advice of some of
Michael Howard's aides.

Five years' fighting -Pages 6 and 7

HOW THEY POLLED

1. LABOUR 12,752

2. LIB DEMS 10,719

3. UKIP 3,193

4. CONS 3,044


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              333 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 2, 2004

KEEP GOING

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 73 words


BEATEN into fourth place behind UKIP.

Where does that leave the Tories?

Answer: In a hole. But there IS a way out. They must listen and learn.

The Sun has repeatedly said that voters demand a tough line on illegal
immigration.

Michael Howard has gone halfway along that route but more needs to be done.

A strong voice on this vital issue will not only reignite the Tory flame.

It could also blow out UKIP's.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              334 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

'Lame duck' leader sparks Labour strife

BYLINE: Philip Webster and Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 741 words


* Blair leaves hospital as new bout of infighting engulfs party

Tony Blair was struggling last night to prove that he was no "lame duck" leader
and would serve a full third term amid fears that fresh Cabinet tensions
foreshadowed the battle for his succession.

The Prime Minister left hospital yesterday after a successful operation to
correct his irregular heartbeat with allies mounting a concerted effort to
convince a sceptical party that he would stay on for at least four more years.

But political opponents and some ministers said Mr Blair had set the stage for a
lengthy fight to replace him by his unprecedented announcement that he would be
standing down shortly before an election in 2009 or 2010.

Close associates insisted that he would and could carry on as they acted to
counter the belief of many Labour politicians including -privately -some allies,
that he will leave two years into the next Parliament after a referendum on the
European constitution.

Disclosure that the Blairs have bought a £3.6 million home in London for when
they leave Downing Street has intensified speculation that he might not see out
the full term.

The flurry of announcements about Mr Blair's future seemed likely to spark new
tensions with Gordon Brown amid suggestions that the Chancellor had been kept in
the dark. Mr Brown, who only learnt that Mr Blair was having an operation when
he arrived in Washington at 8.30pm on Thursday, wished him well from the
American capital last night where he was attending an IMF meeting. "I think the
whole country will wish him well."

The Brown camp disputed No 10 claims that Mr Blair had told him about making a
public statement about serving a full third term. "I can't believe he's done
this.

It's like an African coup. They waited until he was out of the country," one
Brown aide was reported as saying.

Some of the Chancellor's backbench allies claimed yesterday that the house
purchase was proof that Mr Blair had reneged on a promise to quit before the
next election.

Although No 10 denies such a deal, a close friend of the Prime Minister
confirmed yesterday that the Blairs began looking for a new home in April or
May, a period when he was widely rumoured to be on the point of quitting.

Mr Blair's allies in turn are accusing the Brown camp of having been behind much
of the destabilising speculation to harry him out of office this year. They say
this is what forced Mr Blair into Thursday's statement on his third-term plans
along with the news of his heart operation. "Do they really think they have
helped Gordon by the way they have behaved?" one leading Blairite asked.

The Prime Minister left Hammersmith Hospital in London earlier than planned
after the 2-hour procedure carried out under local anaesthetic. He is to rest
over the weekend and then, to emphasise his fitness, will start work again on
Monday and fly to Africa early next week.

Returning to No 10 after what the hospital said was successful treatment with a
low risk of the irregular heartbeat recurring, Mr Blair said: "I'm absolutely
fine, thanks. The hospital staff, the nurses, the doctors, were brilliant."

Mr Blair's team went into overdrive to emphasise that he intended to serve most
of a third term of office. He would leave shortly before the end of that term to
allow for a swift and orderly leadership election. "It would be reasonable to
suggest that he will serve for another five years as Prime Minister," a source
close to him said.

The allies said it was inevit-able that senior Labour politicians would jockey
for position but that he would be able to remain above the fray. John Prescott,
his deputy, said: "I do not see this Prime Minister being at any stage a lame
duck."

Peter Mandelson, whose former seat of Hartlepool was held by Labour in
Thursday's by-election, said the statement would bring peace and stability after
a year of speculation about Mr Blair's future.

The Hartlepool result brought relief to Labour and disappointment to the Tories
who were beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence Party. The
Conservatives tried to play down the outcome, but were undermined by Nicholas
Soames, the Shadow Defence Secretary, who told reporters that it had been a
disaster and a "f****** awful" result for the party.

Blair's future, pages 3, 4, 5 Hartlepool, page 12 Matthew Parris, page 28
Leading article and Letters, page 29


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

We must woo back our scorned electorate

BYLINE: Peter Riddell and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 1241 words


Lord Saatchi and Liam Fox believe that the Tories are doing well enough to
overhaul Labour in target seats, they tell Peter Riddell and Philip Webster

The British electorate is like a girl betrayed by a man. She is let down. She
decides that the man must go. The man at that stage can do anything he likes but
he cannot get her back. He can write her letters, send her chocolates and
flowers, but it will not work. Now, the next man comes along and that girl will
be very cautious. She will think twice, since this new man might be the same as
the last one.

"That is as clear summary as I can give you of pages and pages of research,"
says Lord Saatchi, joint chairman of the Conservative Party, to explain why the
Tories are not well ahead now when the Labour Government is so unpopular.

We talked to him and Liam Fox, his joint chairman, in their plush new offices in
Victoria Street in a room overlooking Charles Clarke's education department. The
pair were speaking before the party's conference in Bournemouth next week and
with a likely seven months before the next general election. They were in an
optimistic mood. Lord Saatchi says: "It is hard for me to see how Labour can win
the general election or continue in power. It looks to me from the research that
they cannot win a general election".

"But can you win?" we ask. "That is a good question," he replies.

The interview took place before the Tories came fourth behind the UK
Independence Party (UKIP) in the Hartlepool by-election. Dr Fox tried to brush
this aside yesterday as a "disappointing result".

Commenting on the success of the UKIP in the June elections, Dr Fox, perched,
rather than sitting, on a comfortable white chair, says that the argument will
be very different in the general election. "It will be interesting to see how
those who voted UKIP adjust to the fact that there will be a choice between a
Labour Government headed by Tony Blair believing in closer European integration
and a Conservative Government led by Michael Howard that believes in taking
powers in the opposite direction. There won't be any other outcome.

"People who voted UKIP will have to look to us in what I see as the coalition of
the patriotic majority which wants Britain's destiny to be decided by Britain."

The joint chairmen, who were appointed by Michael Howard when he took over the
leadership last year, make an odd couple -the suave advertising guru who helped
Margaret Thatcher to her three election triumphs and the ambitious doctor who
has his own long-term aspirations for the Tory leadership.

For Lord Saatchi, the central question is: "If it is true people feel so let
down by Labour, why are we not 20 points ahead? If it was a mystery what the
answer is, we would be worried. We think we understand exactly what the answer
is. We have had seven years of Labour. People had high hopes and expectations
raised. Now they look around and see nothing much has happened, so they are
disillusioned." He illustrates his point by going through a presentation he will
be making to a closed session of the national convention of leading party
workers on Monday morning. On the computer in his office, he shows us a series
of polls and focus group reports highlighting the themes of disillusionment.
Crucially, more than three quarters agree that the real obstacles to public
service reform and lower tax are too much government and waste.

Hence, according to the presentation, a previous Labour lead of 20 points on
economic competence and tax -the same as the Tories ahead of their four
victories -has disappeared. Moreover, when voters are asked about Blair, their
comments are uniformly negative.

Lord Saatchi says the situation is different now. "It is unprecedented. True
disillusionment has led to scepticism and cynicism about politicians' promises.

They always seem to be wriggling out of their commitments."

But he believes that opinion is already moving in the Tories' favour in the key
130 Labour-held targets (as well as 34 Liberal Democrat ones) that the party
needs to win for a bare Commons majority and where voters, Lord Saatchi says,
have a "higher propensity to vote Conservative".

A poll conducted by Opinion Research Business for the party in late September in
these 130 seats points to a drop in the Labour share from 47 to 35 per cent
since 2001, and a rise in the Tories' share from 36 to 39 per cent. This, he
reckons, would be sufficient to take 103 of the needed 130 seats. That "would
deny Labour a majority. But it does not mean we have reached a position to win
the next election. It does mean we are well on the way."

The optimism of their leaders will surprise activists as they gather in
Bournemouth for the party conference in the wake of the party's dismal showing
in the Hartlepool by-election.

Next week's conference is intended to show why disillusioned voters should now
switch to the Tories. According to Dr Fox this will begin the fourth phase of
their election strategy: the first three being establishing credibility, from
Michael Howard's election last November to the party's spring conference in
March; the second from then up to the June elections was to show that Labour had
not delivered; and the third, over the summer and culminating next week, has
been to show how the party "is different, we have got something to offer".

The fourth phase will, in Dr Fox's words, aim to ask: "Are we ready, have we
done our policy work; do we have the personnel and policies to run the country?"

They both emphasise that "a lower tax economy" will feature strongly in the
campaign. Lord Saatchi, a strong believer in tax cuts, argues: "How can a
lower-tax economy not be central to a Tory philosophy that believes in
independence and freedom?"

At the conference, Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Chancellor, will spell out the main
priorities for tax simplification and cuts. Lord Saatchi firmly denies that,
after the recent reshuffle that brought John Redwood back into the Shadow
Cabinet, there has been a shift to the Right or a "core vote strategy" focusing
on traditional Tory supporters.

Dr Fox is insistent: "The idea that if we talk about traditional Tory issues
such as crime, tax, defence and immigration that is somehow a lurch to the
Right, is a preposterous analysis when we have set out policies in other areas
such as health and education." Taking a leaf out of the Liberal Democrats' book,
Dr Fox emphasises the need to build up a local government base. "We are focusing
much more on local government. We have been increasing representation in target
seats and winning by-elections (which are) off our radar."

Dr Fox says that it will be a personality election. "It is inevitable that there
will be a choice between Michael Howard -whom people feel they can trust -and
Tony Blair, who they may think is basically a nice guy but they don't trust."
This partially reflects recent polling showing that Mr Howard is level pegging
with Mr Blair on a range of leadership attributes, such as being "best at
running the country", "delivering what he promises", being a "strong leader",
having "firmly held beliefs" and understanding "people like me".

Twice during the interview Lord Saatchi says that next week's party conference
is a risk. But he is certain there will be a happy ending, if not next week,
then next May, when the girl commits herself to the new man.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 2, 2004, Saturday

Hartlepool makes monkeys of Tories

BYLINE: David Charter Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 360 words


Labour yesterday hailed victory in Hartlepool as an end to the by-election
bandwagon of the Liberal Democrats, who received a 20 per cent swing in their
favour.

Iain Wright, 32, replaces Peter Mandelson as MP after a duel with Jody Dunn, 35,
the Lib Dem candidate, who cut his 14,571 majority to 2,033.

The Conservatives came fourth, beaten by the UK Independence Party. To rub salt
into the wound, a Tory request for a re-count was refused because the gap with
the UKIP was too great.

Jeremy Middleton, the Tory candidate, blamed a "typical by-election protest"
but, with Tory votes halved since 2001, Michael Howard, the party leader, will
have to tell his conference next week how they can win back urban seats.

The loss of Hartlepool, a seat which borders Mr Blair's in Labour's North East
heartland, would have been a catastrophe for the party and there was a huge
effort to get supporters to polling stations.

The Lib Dem tactic of blitzing a by-election with leaflets and party workers,
successful against large Labour majorities in Brent East last year and Leicester
South in June, was not enough in Hartlepool. But Ms Dunn said it was now "a
marginal seat" and Labour had lost the public's trust.

Stephen Allison, the UKIP candidate, claimed that his 3,193 votes gave the party
a platform to return MPs at the next general election.

* Paul Watson was arrested after purple flour was thrown over Jody Dunn, a
family lawyer. He was bailed for questioning later.

Leading article, page 29

THE RESULT

Edward Abrams (English Dems) 41

Stephen Allison (UKIP) 3,193

Philip Berriman (Independent) 90

John Bloom (RESPECT) 572

Ronnie Carroll (Independent) 45

Jody Dunn (Lib Dem) 10,719

Christopher Herriot (Socialist Labour Party) 95

Alan "Howling Lord" Hope (Official Monster Raving Loony) 80

Jeremy Middleton (Cons) 3,044

Richard Rodgers (Common Good) 91

Iris Ryder (Green) 255

Jim Starkey (National Front) 246

Paul Watson (Fathers4Justice) 139

Iain Wright (Labour) 12,752

Turnout: 44.77% (gen elec 56.4%)

Labour maj: 2,033 (gen elec 14,571)

Swing: 18.8% Lab to Lib Dem


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 1, 2004

Humiliation for Howard as UKIP beat Tories

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_4TH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words


MICHAEL Howard suffered an embarrassing blow to his leadership early today when
the Tories were forced into fourth place behind the UK Independence Party in the
Hartlepool by-election.

Labour clung on to what was once one of the party's safest seats with a
dramatically reduced majority, as voters in the North East town deserted Tony
Blair in droves.

A late surge by the Lib Dems stopped short of outright victory, but reduced
Labour's 14,571 winning margin in the 2001 general election to just 2,033.

The swing from Labour to the Lib Dems was nearly 19 per cent, prompting
suggestions that if it was repeated at a national election they would take 150
seats off Labour.

Iain Wright, the 32-year-old new MP for Hartlepool, tried to make up for
Labour's poor showing with a stridently political acceptance speech that drew
complaints from the opposition parties.

Lib Dem candidate Jody Dunn was forced to leave the podium after
Fathers-4-Justice campaigner Paul Watson poured purple powder over her head.

The Tories slumped from second place in 2001 to fourth, amid signs that their
voters backed a Lib Dem appeal for a cross-party effort to give Mr Blair a
political bloody nose.

Their share of the vote more than halved, leaving them with just 9.7 per cent of
the ballots cast, less than the 10.2 per cent won by UKIP.

The collapse of Labour's support in a heartland seat abandoned by Peter
Mandelson for a job in Brussels was seized on by the Lib Dems and Tories as
clear evidence of the extent of the Government's unpopularity.

However, Peter Hain, the Leader of the House, described it as 'an absolute
catastrophe for the Tories and Michael Howard'.

Simon Hughes, for the Lib Dems, said the Tories had not just been overtaken by
UKIP, but 'left in the lay-by'.

The disastrous showing by the Conservatives on the eve of Mr Howard's first
conference as party leader surprised Westminster.

It will trigger a round of bitter recriminations in the upper echelons of the
party.

David Willetts, the Tory pensions spokesman, said the party would have to
rethink how Conservatives present themselves to the public.

'It is a blow made all the more frustrating because we know that on the doorstep
people are getting fed up with this government,' he said. There are growing
fears inside the Shadow Cabinet that the Tory leader has squandered the initial
boost that followed his election last year. Mr Howard and his key advisers are
terrified that a surging UKIP will cost them seats at the next election. But
they face accusations from MPs that they did too little, too late to stave off
disaster in Hartlepool.

Lib Dem strategists said they had called on every Conservative in the
constituency, but claimed there had been no sign of an orchestrated Tory
campaign.

The by-election in the constituency next door to the Prime Minister's seat in
Sedgefield arose after he appointed Mr Mandelson new British EU Commissioner.
The collapse in the Government's support came on the last day of the party's
Brighton conference.

Labour's share of the vote plummeted from 59.1 per cent in 2001 to 40.8 per
cent, while the Lib Dems saw theirs rise by 15 percentage points to 34.3 per
cent.

The three main parties will also study carefully the turnout figure amid signs
that voters are turning off from politics, with potentially devastating
consequences in the general election expected next year.

It fell from 56 per cent in 2001 to about 40 per cent.

b.brogan@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              338 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 01, 2004, Friday

Flagging support as Labour is lost for words Sketch

BYLINE: By Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News; Labour at Brighton Pg. 08

LENGTH: 607 words

THE Labour conference ended yesterday afternoon with the singing of the opening
lines of the Red Flag, followed by both verses of Jerusalem. At the same time a
vast Union Flag was projected on to the main screen and members of the audience
waved red flags which in naval style had the Union Flag in one corner, though
they also bore the "new Labour, new Britain" logo.

Can it be that the UKIP has persuaded the Labour Party there is mileage in being
seen as the patriotic party? But perhaps it is simply that the Prime Minister's
pollster, Lord Gould, has conducted a focus group in Woking which came to the
same conclusion.

Judging by the modest volume of sound, many New Labour people have forgotten, if
they ever knew, the words of both the Red Flag and of Jerusalem, though it is
also true that a considerable number of delegates had already set off home.

After that, nobody could quite decide what to do, so Suzannah Clarke, the former
steel worker turned international soprano who led the singing, invited everyone
to sing the second half of Jerusalem again.

Miss Clarke was accompanied on stage by Tony Blair, by nine steelworkers from
Redcar, and had also by this point been joined by half a dozen dignitaries who
had been sitting on the platform, including Shahid Malik, a member of Labour's
National Executive Committee and the prospective parliamentary candidate for
Dewsbury.

Mr Malik is evidently a fully integrated member of British society, for he did
not know the second half of Jerusalem, and just stood there with a broad grin.
Inability to sing the second half of even the most famous songs is a
quintessentially British characteristic, though perhaps it would be more
accurate to call it quintessentially English.

If only we had been in Wales, the conference would have ended on a more rousing
note. John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, was another dignitary who
appeared not to join in Jerusalem, but he had previously roused the conference
by giving a speech in which he urged delegates to go out knocking on doors and
say to voters: "So can we support on you?"

Mr Prescott quickly corrected this to: "Can we rely on your support?" He warned
the party not to get complacent and pointed out that within living memory the
"unelectable" Ted Heath had won a general election and the "unelectable"
Margaret Thatcher had won several, which means the "unelectable" Michael Howard
could also win next time.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, had earlier made a brave public admission
about his hand-shaking mania, which consists of an urge to shake unsuitable
people by the hand. Mr Straw, who was this week embarrassed by television
footage of him shaking hands with and even bowing slightly to Robert Mugabe, the
Zimbabwean dictator, came clean about a handshake which many in the Labour Party
will consider a worse error of judgment. In the eyes of Labour traditionalists
John Redwood is the devil incarnate, an evil, axe-wielding Thatcherite who will
not rest until he has strangled the last public sector worker with the entrails
of the last trade unionist. Mr Mugabe is by comparison an authentically New
Labour figure: a man with no understanding of rural life, who is never happier
than when persecuting white farmers.

Yet here is what Mr Straw had to say about Mr Redwood: "He's genuinely a nice
fellow and I have to tell you I've shaken his hand, and I could see who he was."

Delegates accepted this admission with good humour. They are so confident they
are now the natural party of government that even Mr Redwood no longer frightens
them. That is how staggeringly complacent Labour has become.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              339 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 01, 2004, Friday

Labour hang on but Tories come a disappointing fourth

BYLINE: By George Jones and David Millward

SECTION: News; Labour at Brighton Pg. 09

LENGTH: 483 words

LABOUR held on to Hartlepool early today after beating off a strong challenge
from the Liberal Democrats in a closely-fought by-election which saw the Tories
pushed into fourth place behind the UK Independence Party.

Despite their 14,571 majority being slashed to just 2,033, there was huge relief
in Labour ranks that an embarrassing defeat had been averted just eight months
before an expected general election.

The success of the Labour candidate Iain Wright, 32, a town councillor, in
holding the seat was a further boost for Tony Blair after managing to avert a
damaging defeat on the closing day of the Labour conference over pulling British
troops out of Iraq.

The majority was larger than many Labour MPs had expected and will be seen as a
sign that the focus of politics may be returning to domestic issues after the
controversy over Iraq.

The by-election was caused by the appointment of Mr Mandelson, who had held the
seat since 1992, as Britain's European commissioner.

It was a miserable night for the Conservatives, who were in second place at the
2001 general election.

After a recount, they suffered the humiliation of their candidate Jeremy
Middleton being pushed into fourth place by UKIP's Stephen Allison, who was 149
votes ahead of the Tories.

The strong showing by the anti-Brussels party, which quadrupled its number of
Euro MPs in June, will alarm Conservative MPs.

It will be seen as a indication that UKIP could begin to get the profile to
start mounting a serious challenge in Westminster elections.

If UKIP makes a similar showing at the general election expected next May,
scores of Conservative seats could be at risk because of its intervention. Seven
years ago, the intervention of the late James Goldsmith's Referendum Party badly
damaged the Tories.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Jody Dunn, 35, a family lawyer and mother of
four, was unable to repeat her party's success in Brent East and Leicester South
by-elections, where the Lib Dems came from third to take previously safe seats
from Labour.

As she made a speech from the podium after the results were announced, Paul
Watson, the Fathers-4-Justice candidate, walked up from behind her and poured
purple powder over her head.

Miss Dunn immediately stepped down and was escorted out of the hall as Mr Watson
began to address his supporters. He was later arrested by police.

Result

I Wright (Lab) 12,752

J Dunn (Lib Dem) 10,719

S Allison (UKIP) 3,193

J Middleton (Con) 3,044

J Bloom (Respect) 572; I Ryder (Green) 255; J Starkey (Nat Frt) 246; P Watson
(Fathers 4 Jst) 139; C Herriot (Soc Lab) 95; R Rodgers (Common Good) 91; P
Berriman (Ind) 90; A Hope (Monster Raving Loony) 80; R Carroll (Ind) 45;

E Abrams (Eng Dems) 41

Labour maj: 2,033

Turnout: 46pc

General Election: P Mandelson (Lab) 22,506, G Robinson (Con) 7,935, N Boddy (Lib
Dem) 5,717. Lab maj: 14,571; Turnout 56.2pc

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              340 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 01, 2004, Friday

Too long under the thumb of Labour

BYLINE: By John Redwood

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 27

LENGTH: 919 words

The media commotion over my appointment to the shadow cabinet was more heat than
light, while Alan Milburn's recall to the colours triggered a major row within
the governing party. I read that my return meant a "lurch to the Right" or a
trip down memory lane to Thatcher's Britain. Some saw it as Michael Howard on a
journey to reconnect with the core Conservative vote, others as a sop to UKIP
following the European elections. That's not how the leader explained the job,
nor what I intend to do.

To me, politics is about the future. I was the original moderniser in the
Conservative Party, telling it: "No change, no chance." We have now made many
changes, and have recognised the mistakes of the past.

The whole point of politics is to stay in touch, to be relevant to modern
problems, to offer people relief from current worries, to give them hope based
on contemporary experience. I have no more wish to refight the old battles of
the last century than I have to seek to polarise the nation around Puritan and
Anglican or monarchist and parliamentarian from earlier centuries.

The task I have been asked to do is, together with my colleagues, to strengthen
the Conservative platform for smaller government. The public is suffering from
more government than it wants, more government than it needs and more government
than it can afford. All too often, this Government hurls its thunderbolts
against some injustice, only to see them harm the very people they were designed
to liberate.

Michael Howard recognises that there are many people who work hard, save for
their future, try to look after themselves and their families, only to see
government oppress them, apparently making them opponents of the Labour project.

People are hounded when going to work for daring to use their car. Their pension
funds are pillaged by the Treasury, who then blame the private sector for the
shortfall, when the money has been taken by the Government. Small business
people face an avalanche of new requirements, and home-owners are buckling under
Labour's taxes. My job is to find a way of taking government off their backs.

There is no simmering ideological dispute in the Conservative Party over the
direction the leadership is taking on public services. All of us agree that
bureaucracy and regulation have to be stripped out from schools, hospitals,
doctors' surgeries and colleges. There is no Right-Left split over how far to go
in allowing popular schools to expand or trusting the judgment of doctors and
patients. All of us accept that good schools and clean hospitals will need more
money. Damian Green and John Bercow agree with Michael Howard and myself that
more choice is good and more freedom for service providers will improve both
health and education.

Alan Milburn's task is more difficult than mine. He wants to modernise in a
party that has had its fill of modernisation, and now sees reform driving it in
a Conservative direction. He has to fight off the Brownite tendency, which still
regards those who want choice and higher standards in health, education and
transport as enemies of the people.

The huge ideological rift that now lies behind the personality rows at the top
of the Government is not easy to resolve. The Chancellor's followers want
old-fashioned equality at the price of uniformity. They like more state
solutions, even if it means taking more away from anyone above the poverty line.
They were heartened by the increase in national insurance, they cheered on the
fiscal assault on the motorist, and were thrilled by the stealth tax on
pensions.

The Prime Minister's court lives in a more modern world, where inequalities can
be accepted as long as the country as a whole is moving forward, offering more
choice and better quality in public service provision.

As the two sides fight each other to a standstill, the Government comes across
as all talk and no action. The Chancellor's stranglehold on new initiative is
deeply damaging. He has thwarted any real freedom being offered to foundation
hospitals - Labour's model offers more bureaucracy, with no benefits from freer
decision making at the bedside - and stands ready to prevent radical departures
from the standard comprehensive school.

I have always found it a strange misdescription to accuse me of being
Right-wing, because I want to keep a democracy in these islands. My dislike of
more power gravitating to Brussels is shared by many on the Left.

The Conservative leadership set out its position clearly before the European
elections. We are against the constitution, we oppose the euro and wish to
renegotiate our relationship. Labour is importing some of its unpopularity, as
the commission goes merrily on its way, regulating to pull vitamins and food
additives off the shelves and to throw dead fish back into the sea.

Removing unwanted bossiness from people does have a European dimension - so many
of our laws now derive from Brussels directives. In Douglas Hurd's day as
foreign secretary, he was rightly worried about Brussels interfering in the
nooks and crannies. Today, with Jack Straw as Foreign Secretary, Brussels
interferes in the central areas of our lives.

British people do not like being bossed around. There will be a price to pay at
the ballot box for a government that has legislated too much and achieved too
little.

John Redwood's Singing the Blues: The Once and Future Conservatives will be
published by Politico's Publishing on October 4 at pounds 18.99 hardback

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              341 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 1, 2004

1AM BY-ELECTION RESULT; LABOUR LIMP TO VICTORY AS LIB DEMS RUN CLOSE

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 328 words


LABOUR scraped home early today in the Hartlepool by-election with a narrow win
over the Liberal Democrats.

The depth of voters' disenchantment with Tony Blair was illustrated by the
collapse of Labour's majority in one of its former rock-solid heartlands.

The Tories slipped back into fourth place behind the UK Independence Party.

Labour managers had been forced to contemplate the prospect of humiliating
defeat in yesterday's by-election, which was caused by Peter Mandelson's
resignation as an MP to become Britain's European Commissioner.

Labour was defending a majority of 14,571 from the last general election in the
north east industrial heartlands seat it has held for 40 years.

All yesterday's by-election voting took place before Tony Blair revealed his
heart condition.

Labour candidate Iain Wright, a 32-year-old local councillor, polled 12,752
votes, a margin of 2,033 over Liberal Democrat rival Jody Dunn.

Michael Howard's Tories had nothing to celebrate as they crashed from second
place at the last election to fourth, 149 votes behind the antiBrussels UKip.

Today's result was a temporary relief for Labour but will fuel nervousness among
MPs who fear they are vulnerable to losing their seats to opposition parties at
the next general election.

Lib Dems calculated that a similar dramatic swing at a general election would
see them unseating 150 Labour MPs.

The Lib Dems insisted the Hartlepool result was a real achievement, since they
started the campaign 17,000 votes behind and in third place behind the Tories,
based on the last general election.

Conservative Party cochairman Liam Fox said:

"This is a disappointing result for us but tonight is a story about Labour. This
is a disastrous result for them. They have come close to losing one of their
safest seats.

"It demonstrates a complete collapse in trust for Tony Blair. It is clear that
the Conservatives suffered from tactical voting.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              342 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 1, 2004

Tories pushed into fourth place as Labour holds on to Hartlepool

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 465 words


Labour last night breathed a sing of relief when it held on to the safe seat of
Hartlepool in a byelection that had at one point been billed as a chance to
trigger the resignation of Tony Blair before the general election.

In one of the most bitterly fought contests of recent times, Labour won with a
vote of 12,752, a majority of 2,033, down from 14,571 in the 2001 general
election.

Turnout was just under 46%, down about 10 percentage points from the general
election but in line with many recent byelections.

The Tories tumbled from second place to a catastrophic fourth, behind the UK
Independence party. This is the first time since the second world war that the
official opposition has come fourth in a byelection. The Tories polled 3,044,
149 fewer than the Ukip.

The swing to the Liberal Democrats was 18%, only two points less than the swing
which they secured to win the Leicester South byelection in July. The Liberal
Democrats had hoped the barrister Jody Dunn could beat the Labour local
councillor Iain Wright. But they could not break down Labour strongholds, partly
because local issues dominated, rather than the running sore of Iraq and the
prime minister's trustworthiness.

Mr Wright said in a combative acceptance: "This is great news for Tony Blair, a
huge disappointment for Charles Kennedy and absolute disaster for Michael
Howard. It is absolutely clear that he cannot win a byelection."

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat campaign chief said: "The question is not why
we lost, but why we came so close. This has been a solid Labour town for 40
years. We are now seeing a pattern in which the Tories start in second place and
end up third, and now fourth".

Ms Dunn was prevented from making a speech after the count when the Fathers for
Justice candidate Paul Watson threw purple powder over her. A man was later
arrested.

The result is the worst possible curtain raiser for the Conservative conference
next week in Bournemouth.

David Willetts, the shadow welfare secretary, frankly admitted that the result
was a blow. "It is very frustrating for us that we are not doing better at
picking up votes of people disappointed with Labour."

He urged the party "not to go down the self indulgent route of changing its
leader".

Mr Howard will face more calls to go further right by promising tax cuts and an
even stronger line on Europe and asylum. In his defence, the recent byelections
have not been in natural Tory territory.

Labour will see the result as a vindication of its decision to plump for a local
man and to mount an aggressive campaign against the Liberal Democrats.

The byelection was caused by the decision of Peter Mandelson the former cabinet
minister to take up the post of European commissioner.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              343 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 1, 2004

Labour in Brighton: 'Safe' seats can't deter the Lib Dem foot soldiers: Charles
Kennedy's party is growing in confidence

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1010 words


Voters in byelections have a healthy habit of rejecting the script that
political strategists in distant Westminster attempt to draft for them whenever
an MP dies in harness or goes off to a new job such as a European commissioner.

So it was proving in Hartlepool early today where what had been billed as an
almost risk-free ballot in a 40-year Labour stronghold turned into a nail-biter.
Neither Labour nor Lib Dem camps have been certain this week who would win. Nor
were seasoned local observers, usually happy to take a punt.

All that appeared certain for most of the campaign was that it was a two-horse
race in which the role of the micro-parties, Respect and the Greens on the left,
chiefly Ukip on the right, was to siphon off enough votes to be able to claim to
have determined this morning's top three positions on the podium.

What happened to turn the town into a blizzard of competing leaflets, flyers,
posters (mostly Lib Dem orange) and insults for the past month or so? Basically
what happened was a Lib Dem hunch that they might just pull it off - offset by a
Labour determination to treat a 14,571 majority as if the 14,000 might not vote
Labour on the day.

When Tony Blair failed to persuade senior colleagues to allow Peter Mandelson
one last chance to rejoin them at the cabinet table and settled instead for
sending him to Brussels, Labour strategists were acutely aware that it would
mean a byelection next door to the prime minister's own Sedgefield constituency.

No problem there surely? Well, yes. There is always a problem with byelections
once the government of the day starts losing public confidence and voters start
looking for ways to give them a kicking. The Blair government reached that
tipping point when it went to war in Iraq.

After Steve Norris managed to hold Epping in 1987, the Tories failed to win a
byelection for more than a decade - though they won the rather more important
1992 general election on the way down into the dark valley they now inhabit.

In Labour's first term it didn't lose a byelection, though turnout was low - 19%
when Hilary Benn won Leeds Central - a foretaste of the apathy and stay-at-home
resentment that characterised the 2001 general election.

After Iraq, the laid-back Charles Kennedy found an issue that got traction with
three significant sections of the Labour electorate: anti-war Blairites,
hardcore anti-Blairites, and anti-war Muslim voters, for whom it had become the
issue

The immediate result was Brent East, an inner city London seat, once held by Ken
Livingstone, which fell to the diminutive but tenacious Lib Dem, Sarah Teather,
in September 2003 on a swing of 29% - with the Tories elbowed into third place.

In Leicester South in mid-July, the Liberal Democrats snatched a Labour-held
seat following the death of Jim Marshall on a swing of almost 22%. In Birmingham
Hodge Hill they narrowly failed to make it a double on the same day.

Twenty-two per cent was what it would take to capture Hartlepool, the quirky
port of nearly 100,000 on the northern edge of the Tees Valley, battered by
post-industrial decline, but fighting back thanks to urban regeneration
programmes of Tory and Labour governments.

But Hartlepool, like most of the north-east, is largely white. "Not many Muslims
in Hartlepool," murmured one election veteran in July. On some estimates, there
were about 500 such votes.

After being represented since 1992 by one of the country's most conspicuous MPs,
the town seemed agreed it wanted a quieter life. Who would be the best local MP,
became the dominant issue. Who would stick up for Hartlepool's immediate
interests rather than fret over the future of social democracy?

Parochialism found its main focus in the fate of Hartlepool's busy hospital,
threatened with closure or downsizing. The more that challengers to Labour's
Iain Wright piled on dire warnings, the more Mr Wright, John Reid, and
eventually Tony Blair promised not to remove a single bedpan.

Hartlepool has put up with a lot of irritation during the byelection, but it may
have saved its hospital.

The other resonating issue, the one Labour chose to high light, was crime and
anti-social behaviour. As in Hodge Hill, Lib Dems regard this as cheap and
populist. But Labour argues that its core voters suffer deeply from vandalism
and disorder - and that middle class Lib Dem MPs always shy away from voting for
David Blunkett's tough measures.

To that end Labour's team recruited the support of Ray Mallon, Robocop to the
tabloids, the chief inspector who cleaned up Middlesbrough, ran foul of his own
superiors and got himself elected mayor. No one, certainly not Hartlepool's own
elected mayor (who stayed neutral), certainly not 32-year-old Councillor Wright,
has the standing of Robocop among ordinary voters. It may have made the decisive
difference.

Ms Dunn brought not just photogenic brains, energy and optimism to her campaign,
she brought hordes of enthusiastic, young Lib Dem supporters. They acted as foot
soldiers to an increasingly sophisticated high command, under Lord Rennard, the
party's election generalissimo.

Whether that would be enough was being determined as the votes were counted last
night. Labour had been split locally over Mr Wright's selection. Once it was
clear that no outsider could win, Mr Wright was the only local runner
shortlisted by Labour HQ's byelections panel.

In Fraser Kemp, MP for nearby Houghton and Washington East, and a local boy
himself, Labour had a seasoned former regional agent.

After yesterday's Guardian called for a tactical Lib Dem vote to chastise Tony
Blair, Mr Kemp sent his troops out with instructions to show those "Islington
liberals" what Hartlepool thinks of them.

Yesterday it was the voters' turn to have their say. Labour began to sound more
confident in the closing hours. Lib Dem sources privately admitted they had
probably not quite done it.

But being Hartlepudlians, no one was betting the farm. The bookies have had a
quiet week.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              344 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 1, 2004, Friday

HARTLEPOOL BY-ELECTION: LABOUR HOLDS ON BUT TORIES COLLAPSE TO FOURTH PLACE
BEHIND UKIP

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS AND IAN HERBERT Iain Wright celebrates with his wife after
holding off the strong challenge from Jody Dunn, above left PA/UNP

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 820 words


LABOUR HELD on in the Hartlepool by-election early today in the face of a
Liberal Democrat surge, while the Conservatives crashed into a humiliating
fourth place.

Iain Wright saw off a Liberal Democrat challenge by 2,033 votes - a fraction of
the Labour majority at the previous general election - but the party high
command will still be delighted to hang on to a formerly safe seat. Mr Wright
polled 12,752 votes, comfortably ahead of the Liberal Democrat Jody Dunn, on
10,719, despite a swing to her party of more than 20 per cent.

Conservative Jeremy Middleton picked up just 3,044 votes, behind Stephen
Allison, of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), on 3,193. It was thought to be the
first time since the Second World War that the principal Opposition party had
come fourth in an English by-election.

Mr Wright proclaimed the result "great news" for Tony Blair, but an "absolute
disaster" for Michael Howard.

With Hartlepool's voters choosing a replacement for the departing Peter
Mandelson, Labour made a massive effort to avert a repeat of recent by- election
losses to the Liberal Democrats in Brent East and Leicester South. But another
slump in the Government's support in a previous stronghold just seven months
before the likely date of the next general election will ring alarm bells in
Labour headquarters.

It will find it hard to blame the slump on anti-war sentiment; canvassers said
the issue was rarely mentioned on the doorsteps and, unlike recent by-elections,
has a negligible Muslim community.

The by-election in the constituency, represented for 12 years by Mr Mandelson,
coincided with the end of a Labour conference overshadowed by the ordeal of the
Baghdad kipnap victim Kenneth Bigley.

The share of the vote for Labour fell from 59 to 41 per cent. By contrast, the
Liberal Democrats saw their share leap from 15 to 34 per cent. On the eve of
their annual conference, the Conservatives also saw their vote melt to a new low
after their candidates had come third in three previous by-elections.

Peter Hain, the Leader of the Commons, told the BBC: "To win a by-election in
these circumstances in which everyone has been kicking the Prime Minister,
saying we've lost trust, is a great result."

He said the "real lesson" of the by-election was that the Conservatives had an
unpopular leader and policies that did not add up. He added: "The Liberals have
done quite well, but we have actually done much better than we had thought."

Lord Rennard, the Liberal Democrat campaign director, said: "This result in what
was Labour's 103rd safest seat confirms there is now nowhere in Britain we
cannot compete."

David Willetts, a Tory shadow cabinet member, said: "I'm not going to pretend
this is anything other than a very disappointing result for us.'

Labour fought an aggressive campaign in the by-election, which was triggered by
the resignation after 12 years as the town's MP of Mr Mandelson, the former
Cabinet minister, to become the European Commissioner for Trade.

It focused on the charismatic Ms Dunn, accusing her of being soft on drugs and
crime and of not being a true Hartlepudlian because she lives 25 miles away,
near Darlington.

The Liberal Democrats retorted by claiming that the town's hospital faced
closure, a charge dismissed as scaremongering by Labour. They accused Mr Wright,
an accountant, of fighting a negative campaign.

At the previous general election, Mr Mandelson piled up a 14,571 majority for
Labour with almost 60 per cent of the votes cast. Until yesterday the town,
built on the coal, steel and shipbuilding industries, had been regarded as a
party stronghold, returning Labour MPs to the Commons since 1964. In this year's
council elections the party also regained a majority on the town council. But it
has shown an independent streak, electing the mascot of Hartlepool's football
team, H'angus the Monkey, alias Stuart Drummond, as the town's Mayor.

Lord Rennard, who masterminded recent Lib Dem by-election successes, stressed
that the party did not just have to overhaul a 14,571 majority, but the 17,000
votes that separated Labour and the LibDems, who finished third in 2001. Success
of that kind, replicated nationwide in a general election, would strip away
three quarters of Labour's seats.

Though the Lib Dems had shortened the 8 per cent gap between the two parties
revealed in a Channel 4 News poll several weeks ago, canvassing returns
suggested the Grange and Stranton municipal wards - key Labour strongholds -
remained on a knife edge when polling booths closed. "The 14,000 isn't the
problem," said Ms Dunn's press officer, Ed Fordham. "It's the 571."

THE RESULT

Iain Wright (Lab) 12,752

Jody Dunn (Lib Dem) 10,719

Stephen Allison (UKIP) 3,193

Jeremy Middleton (Con) 3,044

2001 result:

Lab: 22,506; Con: 7,935;

Lib Dem: 5,717

(UKIP did not field a candidate)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              345 of 347 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 1, 2004, Friday

LABOUR AT BRIGHTON: LABOUR TAKE HARTLEPOOL

BYLINE: DON MACKAY

SECTION: 1 Star Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


LABOUR clung on to Peter Mandelson's Hartlepool seat last night.

But the majority was slashed from 14,571 at the general election to 2,033 as the
Lib Dems finished second.

The Tories were the biggest losers, slumping into fourth behind UKIP just days
before their party conference.

Conservative candidate Jeremy Middleton even demanded a recount as they trailed
UKIP by 149 votes. New MP Mr Iain Wright, who won with just over 40 per cent of
the vote, said: "This is great news for Tony Blair and absolutely disastrous
news for Michael Howard because it shows the Tories cannot win a by-election."

Lib-Dem runner-up Jody Dunn was flour-bombed by supporters of Families for
Justice candidate Paul Watson - who lost his deposit with 139 votes.

The by-election was called after ex-Cabinet minister Mandelson's switch to
Brussels as a European Commissioner.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              346 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 1, 2004

TORY ELECTION MELTDOWN

BYLINE: Lucy Hagan

LENGTH: 316 words


They're 4th as Labour win Hartlepool

THE Tories suffered a political disaster early today by finishing fourth in the
Hartlepool by election - behind the UK Independence Party.

Conservative candidate Jeremy Middleton got just 3,044 votes, 149 behind UKIP.

The result is a massive blow for Tory leader Michael Howard, below, just days
before his party's conference in Bournemouth.

They were beaten by UKIP despite taking a tougher line on Europe and illegal
immigration.

Labour's Iain Wright won with a massively reduced majority of 2,033.

Meanwhile, runner-up Lib Dem candidate Jody Dunn had purple powder thrown over
her during her speech.

Mum-of-four Ms Dunn, 35, a family lawyer, branded the stunt by Fathers 4 Justice
candidate Paul Watson "childish and immature".

Labour's Mr Wright said: "Tonight's result is great news for Tony Blair, a huge
disappointment for Charles Kennedy and an absolute disaster for Michael Howard."

Catastrophe

Labour chiefs were relieved after last-minute canvassing showed they were a
hatful of votes from defeat.

Losing a stronghold Labour seat would have been a bitter personal blow for Tony
Blair, whose Sedgefield constituency borders Hartlepool.

The seat was held with a majority of 14,571 in 2001 by former minister Peter
Mandelson.

Senior Labour MP Peter Hain described the result as "great news for Tony Blair
and an absolute catastrophe for the Conservative Party".

Fathers 4 Justice candidate Mr Watson, who got 139 votes, was later arrested
under the Public Order Act. He had been supported by fellow campaigners dressed
in trademark superhero costumes. The group famously threw purple powder at the
PM last May.

Turnout was just under 46 per cent, down about ten per cent from the 2001
General Election.

HOW THEY POLLED

1. Labour 12,752. 2. Lib Dems 10,719. 3. UKIP 3,193. 4. Cons 3,044


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              347 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 1, 2004, Friday

Tory misery as Labour hold Hartlepool

BYLINE: Philip Webster and David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 5

LENGTH: 351 words


Labour ended a turbulent conference week by holding on to their Hartlepool seat
early today in a by-election which brought humiliation for the Tories, beaten
into fourth place by the UK Independence Party.

In a terrible result for Michael Howard, the main Opposition party came fourth
in an English by-election for the first time since the Second World War.

The Conservatives suffered additional embarrassment after they requested a
re-count to make sure that they had not come third. It was refused because the
margin of 139 votes between themselves and the UKIP was too great.

The Tories received just 3,044 votes in the Hartlepool poll (compared with 6,954
in 2001), with the UKIP on 3,193, while Labour won on 12,752 from the LibDems on
10,719.

Labour's narrow victory vindicated the decision of party managers to stage the
contest during the party conference rather than at the end of next week's Tory
conference.

The victory for Iain Wright, 32, a local councillor, was a relief for Tony Blair
after a week in which his party's differences on Iraq have been starkly on
display, his relationship with Gordon Brown again under intense scrutiny and the
suspense over the fate of the hostage Kenneth Bigley intensified.

However, the Labour vote in Hartlepool, its 103rd safest seat, was much reduced
and there was ample compensation for Charles Kennedy's party in showing again it
could mount a substantial campaign against Labour in an urban seat.

BY-ELECTION RESULTS:

Iain Wright (Labour) 12,752

Jody Dunn (Lib Dem) 10,719

Stephen Allison (UKIP) 3,193

Jeremy Middleton (Con) 3,044

Edward Abrams (English Dem) 41

Philip Berriman (Independent) 90

John Bloom (RESPECT) 572

Ronnie Carroll (Independent) 45

Christopher Herriot (Socialist Labour Party) 95

Alan "Howling Lord" Hope (Official Monster Raving Loony) 80

Richard Rodgers (Common Good) 91

Iris Ryder (Green) 255

Jim Starkey (National Front) 246

Paul Watson (Fathers4Justice) 139 Labour majority: 2,033

Swing: 18.8 per cent Lab to Lib Dem

Conference reports, 26-29


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
